ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session this morning. [[Law Proposal on the Forced Disappearance of Minors in Catalonia]] [[202-00061/12]] And we do it with the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the debate of the opinion of the Commission of Justice on the Law Proposition on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia. According to Rule 123 of the Rules, he has the word in the first place which he has named as the rapporteur of the case, which is Mr Rafel Bruguera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies and deputies, honourable Justice Counsellor, very good morning to all and to all. In the first place, I would like to greet very affectionately the entities and associations representing victims of the forced disappearances of minors who are following the Ple from one of the halls of this house, from the meeting room of the Parliament of Catalonia. I am referring to the associations SOS Babés Robados Catalunya, Child Missing Riada 1962, Babés Robados and the Observer of the Forced Disappearances of Minors. They have been the driving force behind the law and the real protagonists of it. The deepest personal grace and, I'm not convinced, of all the ponents. Also a cordial greeting to all people, entities and NGOs who, I know, follow this Ple from the Parliament Channel, with a lot of interest. Allow me to make a short chronological rerun, because this law is the fruit of a year's work. On March 16, 2017, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency of the Parliament of Catalonia approved a resolution, which agreed to the creation of a working group to study the case of the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, from the beginning of the dictatorship until democracy was well entered. This working group was formed on the 20th of April. If there were to be substantial comparisons of experts and representatives of associations of victims of enforced disappearance of minors, it was not possible to draw up the report of conclusions by the end of the legislature. Already in the current legislature, on November 13, 2018, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress presented two motions for resolutions, one before the plenary and the other before the Commission of Justice, on the need to have one law on the enforced disappearance of minors. On July 24, 2019, the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Socialists and Units to Advance, Catalonia in Comú Pode and the subgroups of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Cree and the Popular Party of Catalonia, obstruct the Registry of Parliament the articulated text of the Law Proposition on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, which consisted of a preamble, eleven articles, three additional dispositions and three final dispositions. The debate of totality in Parliament was founded on October 7th of encanny, without any group present addressing the totality. And, therefore, in this way, he continued his processing for unanimity of the chamber. He also agreed that it is a process for the extraordinary emergency procedure. On October 29th, the ponència was formed by the deputies: Matías Alonso, Elena Fort, Raquel Sans, Yolanda López, Natalia Sánchez, Manuel Reyes and a servant, who, at the same time, was appointed as rapporteur on November 13th. I would like to thank the trust in my person and, at the same time, express my sincere thanks to all the speakers for the dialogue and consensus-seeking experience that have presided over the work. I also want to appreciate very positively the predisposition and collaboration of the Department of Justice and its Councillor, in order to achieve, among all, the best possible law, which is obviously and will be a law of the country. Also, and on behalf of all the speakers, I would like to thank the appearances of SOS Babies Robados Catalunya and the Observer for the Forced Disappearances of Minors, who have done so as a representation of the group of entities and associations representing the families of missing children. A total of fifty-seven; forty-eight, of the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republic, and nine, of the Socialist groups and Units for Progress and Catalonia in Commu Puer. The presentation was held on the 4th of December, which he recommended in his report, also with a degree of agreement very majority, the incorporation of all living items, either directly or through texts negotiated between the original document and the submitted items. Finally, the Parliament's Justice Commission discussed the report of the ponència on 10 December. At the request of the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans and the Subgroup of the People's Party, separate votes of two out of fifty-five were held, which shows the degree of agreement sunk. I would not like to end without thanking the invaluable help of the President of the Commission of Justice, the Member of Parliament, Yolanda López; of Mrs Raquel Sans, who was at any time willing to take the phone to connect with the Council of Justice; and the task for the manager, Ángel Zardoya, the late Anna Casas and, in particular, the late Antoni Bayona, who, through the technical proposals he has proposed to us, has managed to reconcile legally the legitimate interests of victims and relatives of forced disappearance of minors with respect to the standards on the protection of personal data. Catalonia will be the second autonomous community in the Spanish State to have its own strategy on forced disappearance of minors, which I believe we can all congratulate. All right, all right, Many thanks, Mr President, Councillor of Justice, Members and Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.3.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Congressman Bruguera. Then the rest of the speakers will intervene, in the usual order. I, therefore, in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Carmen de Rivera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.4.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and citizens who follow us through the networks and associations that are in this Chamber in another room. Today is a very important day in the Parliament of Catalonia, because we are going to pass all the parliamentary groups the Law on the enforced disappearance of minors, that silent and hidden scourge so long, of the trafficking of girls and boys, as is commonly known – we all know – « the stolen babies. Believe me if I tell you that days like this make you feel proud to be a Member of this Parliament of Catalonia. Although slow, the process, since that distant April 2017, as explained by the rapporteur Mr Bruguera, in which the working group on this subject was created, which, with memorable appearances for all of us for its cruelty and sincerity, helped us to understand the members of the group the need to make this law and the scope of the drama suffered by these families to which their son was taken, and the multiple legal, scientific and material obstacles with which they were constantly in their struggle to find this son or the struggle of this son to find his mother. I want to thank all the associations that attended, for their testimony and their tireless work of pushing to get to pass this law; law that could not have been presented without the invaluable collaboration of the Observatory of Enforced Disappearances of Minors, with its president at the head, Dr. Neus Roig, true soul mate of this proposed law, and also the invaluable collaboration and help of the observer's jurist, Sílvia Climent. With the adoption of this law – and this is its object – it is intended to provide the necessary normative instruments and remedies for the recognition and effectiveness of the right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of victims of enforced disappearance, with replacement of identity, and also to facilitate the necessary investigative tasks, regulating the appropriate administrative procedures for the case, following the obligations undertaken in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. Today, with the approval of this law, it is a remedy – if it is possible to remedy a suffering like this – to a long stage of darkness and suffering; suffering that suffered all those mothers and families to whom they took their children in the early years of the Franco dictatorship, to eradicate that red gene that, in the Francoist imaginary, had children born of republican mothers. Or those children who were refugees in war in other countries, who disappeared after being abducted by the Francoist authorities and given up for adoption. Or those who were taken away from their mothers, only because they were helpless or single, and were handed over to good Catholic families, where they would be educated in Francoist values. Or all those children who were kidnapped later, already in democracy, and who had the misfortune of catching up with disillusioned people who did a real business of what, as we know, began to be an element of repression. In my last speech in a plenary, I would like to highlight those moments when political groups set aside our political differences and reached great agreements for the benefit of citizens. Well, this law is a good example of that. At this last plenary session of the legislature, it is important that we also achieve a great cross-cutting agreement, in such a fundamental matter as justice and human rights, such as this. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Last – and I finish, President – being in the last plenary, I would like to wish you all a good Nadal and that the New Year brings us greetings and hope for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mr Rafel Bruguera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.6.0	Thanks again. Good morning. President, deputies and deputies, councillor, today, we can..., I think we can make good that saying that comes true: well, it's the one that ends well. Today, in the late Ple of the XII Legislature, we will approve – I believe and hope with a general consensus – the Law on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia; the second law in the Spanish State, after the canary law. Surely – and I think we also have to say – if we had had more time, we could have anticipated the debate to the full, this one would probably have come out a little more round. But I am genuinely growing – and I am not convinced – that, with the approved documents and the technical legal contributions of the letter that guided us in its processing, Mr. Antoni Bayona, this law meets the requirements sufficient to be useful to the purpose that it pursues: truth, justice, reparation of the damage caused and guarantees of non-repetition, in cases of enforced disappearance of minors or the appropriation of minors, with the consequent replacement of identity. Because most cases have to do with French repression, we cannot forget that they too have to give themselves in full democracy until the 1990s, such as the practice of irregular adoptions of children as a consequence of natural disasters, such as now some of those that survive the rivers of the 1962 Vallès, or the snowfalls of Barcelona of the same year, and which families cannot locate. And if some aspects may not have been sufficiently defined, they may also end up profiling through the statutory development of the law. We could not pass another legislature, Members and Members, without having a specific legal body to give response from Catalonia to hundreds of families who have suffered – and still suffer – the consequences of one of the toughest crimes against human rights, such as the disappearance of a baby. And this is going to be a reality today, and I think we can collectively congratulate each other. But the true protagonists of the law are not us, they are the various associations that implore the victims, that with their struggle without failing, with their insistence and perseverance, they have convinced us not only of the need for the law, but also of the urgency of this. It's been many years, but years without regulation, and it's worth it that at the end of this legislature we give the green light to the law that they wait and desire. Personally it has been very enriching, as in politics and as the person compromised from years ago with the cause of the disappearances of people, could have brought my grit into the debate and processing of the law, and in giving thanks to my parliamentary group that allowed me to represent it, although I am not part of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament. This will be the last law that I will vote as a Member, and I am very pleased that this is precisely the case. I will, in fact, keep a very good record of my late Ple of the Parliament of Catalonia. Many thanks, deputies and deputies, councillor, president. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.7.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now sending a return to Congresswoman Yolanda López on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors, workers. First of all, to greet the entities and associations that are seeing us, and especially those that promoted this law: a cordial greeting and a affectionate embrace. Today we take a step forward to put reparation and truth to one of the most dantastic and infamous scandals in the history of black Spain. The formulas of political repression of Francoism reached great extremes, such as those of the diversion of children from Republican prisons, with the argument, the perverse argument of avoiding the transmission of the evil of the Marxist gene. Up to thirty thousand missing children, stolen children, have been counted until 1952 in Spain. However, this did not end here, but after the year 52 there continued to be thefts of boys and girls in hospitals until the 1990s. Some cases of which today we have neither studies nor statistics, but which the complaints show a great impact. Mothers such as Maria Luisa Jiménez, who is looking for her daughter born in 78; as Adelina Ibáñez, who is looking for her son born in 75; sisters such as Pilar, who is looking for her sister born in 82; Adelina Ruiz, who is looking for her twins born in 80; Ana Paez, who is looking for her daughter born in 81, and so many other women and also men who are still looking for their sons and daughters, brothers and sisters; people who have spent years in court trying to do justice; people who are looking for the truth of the facts. Searches that require institutional support so that they can be successfully carried out. Institutional support to enable these victims to have all the documentary resources necessary for their reparation. Only in cases where the mother signed a renunciation of the newborn at the time of delivery have they been able to receive some information at the official level to locate them or make a reunion. However, all cases in which the resignation of the mother or those mothers who were informed of the false death of her stolen baby has not been signed, have the complaints filed on the grounds that it is impossible, according to judges and prosecutors, to follow up the investigation. Therefore, today we take a great step forward so that Catalonia has a law that will help these families in the search for the truth. A law that makes available to victims a number of normative instruments and remedies necessary for the recognition and enforcement of the right to the truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition of victims in cases of enforced disappearance of minors and/or appropriation of minors, and facilitates the investigative tasks necessary to fulfil the obligations undertaken in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, with an instrument as important and necessary as the Victims'Office. A law that the citizenry has been demanding for years and that it is about time that it was passed in this Parliament for a matter of responsibility and democracy. That is why today I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that we have been able to reach agreement on the'stresses' and to be able to present a consensus text today, and that thanks to this work and consensus this legislature reflects this great progress that strengthens our democracy. I do not want to end without thanking all the Members of each of the parliamentary groups who have worked on this paper without a break and thus facilitate the adoption of this law before the end of the parliamentary term. A very special thank you from here to those people who do not come out in this rostrum, but who do incredible parliamentary work, and that without them and without them the parliamentary task would not be possible. Thanks to the lawyer Antoni Bayona for his impeccable work; to the technician Àngel Zardoya, for making the task so much easier for us; of course, to the rapporteur, the deputy Rafel Bruguera – the presentation could not have better rapporteur – and to the technical teams that help us in our parliamentary groups which, as always, are the ones and the essentials. Thanks for all the work, because thanks to this law Catalonia takes a step further in recognizing the truth, in justice, in reparation and in guaranteeing non-repetition. Personally, the legislature could not end better than by passing a law that represents an ethical, historical, political and legal obligation. And if I may, as will be my last intervention in this legislature, wish you a happy year 2021 and let us leave behind this bad year 2020. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.9.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the words of the deputy, Ms. Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.10.0	Bon dia, MPs, MPs..., ai! [[Pause.]] I've fallen for it. Good morning. Mr Bruguera said: "We could not let another legislature pass. So I think that with this phrase is a summary and I would like to begin my intervention by thanking them, especially at the post, Raquel and Yolanda, especially for the intense work that has made it possible not only to approve the law, but also to approve it in time, before the end of the legislature. A job that had to be accelerated, but I want to thank them, and congratulate them on the job. The final law has incorporated all those shortcomings or nuances that were missing in the text we proposed to the Inician. I told you the day we handled the law here in plenary, not for weeks ago, when I placed the big task that was done from public communication media and from journalism to put on the table this hard problem and this hard Franco crime, didn't I? With the documentary "The lost children of the franchise, almost twenty years ago. As the law proposes, the source of this practice of supporting children to certain women and families is found in Franco planning policies; but post-Franchism too, already in democracy. We believe that democracy cannot be talked about if these practices are kept going. Some still doubt that the franchise was a fetishist regime, know how, today, the structures of power are not yet sufficiently debugged. Therefore, justice, truth, reparation, guarantees of non-repetition with this law. I think the text incorporates tools, such as the Victims Office, many objects that are useful for families, and also what will be hot is that it embeds resources. Therefore, I think we must congratulate each other, and we must especially congratulate all the people who have made it possible. These great prayers, this kind of king, still run through the veins of the Catalan people and also the people of the Republic of the Spanish State and, therefore, in memory of all of them and for the future that will come, also republic, as we do this exercise and this law is a useful tool. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.12.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, deputies, deputies, there must be no greater pain than that suffered by a mother or a father when he or she loses or is separated from his or her child. And that pain is a pain that accompanies you throughout your life. There's no worse torture or worse fortune than not knowing your son's whereabouts. And it is that suffering that is the main reason why we believe that we must support all groups in this proposal that is brought to us today, regardless of the political colour and our ideology. We must therefore put aside our differences and humanize, sensitize and recognize the suffering that many parents and mothers who do not know where their children are. The rapporteurs are well aware that all groups have carefully studied this proposal for a law, and by studying it there is still much – much – work to be done. It is true that certain progress has been made since the Spanish Government in 2013, such as the agreement signed by the Attorney General's Office with the Ministries of Justice, Interior, Health, Social Services and Equality. An agreement establishing the establishment of the monitoring commission, depending on the Ministry of Justice, which established the Information Office for those affected by the possible abduction of newborns. Since then, public administrations have assumed the responsibility and commitment to institutionally support those affected. On the other hand, as regards the relationship of DNA tests, a national basis was also created, centralized at the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences. Therefore, that office that we now create in Article 11 and the database that was created in Article 10 must go hand in hand also from the national bases, in order to be able to help, in order to be able to get anyone missing we can locate it. Therefore, from the People's Group we will give broad support to this law, even though we do not share some of the articles in its writing, but we understand that we all have to go together to end this suffering that the mothers, the parents, that agony also that probably many children – of not knowing who their parents have been – have also suffered. Therefore, thank you for the work done by the rapporteur and all the rapporteurs and congratulate us all because this law is a step forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.13.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Sans has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.14.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, in the first place I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Rafel Bruguera, to the other Members and Members who have taken part in the debate, to the Iletrat, to the manager, to the Neus, to the Sylvia, and, if I may, also to the Companions of the Department of Justice for being 'faced at all times' – Constellera Capella, Teresa Vallverdú, Joan Abad, Eric Gómez, and also to the Councillor of the Republican Group, the Mercè Espasa, without which, therefore, things are much more complicated. Today was a work of generosity and teamwork. Today in Parliament, despite the fact that they cannot do so from the hemisphere, we are accompanied by representatives of the various associations of victims, as well as by the Observer of Enforced Disappearances of Minors, to whom I take advantage to greet and send a very strong hug. Among them, however, there can be no Dolores Pepper. The Dolores today is ninety-six years old. Sixty years later, he didn't throw the towel so he could find his son. The Dolores, like my avia, left Extremadura at the end of the fifties, and also, like my avia, did not know how to read or write. She came to Barcelona looking for a better future and here she got pregnant with her second child. Fèlix was born on May 29, 1960 at the Hospital Clínic de Barcelona. Dolores went to give the light alone; her husband worked, it was usual at the time. And after giving birth to a child apparently his – he weighed almost three kilos, he was king's hair –, the infirmary 'will suffer supposedly to clean him up. The nurse went back to her head for an hour with her bare hands. He told her his son was dead. After the shock, Dolores asked to see her son, logically, so that she could bury him, so that she could take it. They told him that this was not possible, that they had already buried him – in an hour. From then on he began his peril to find a son who, still today, sixty years later, is quite clear that he was robbed. After many years of investigation, there are many things they don't. The Dolores' father wasn't registered. At the cemetery they did not find the cadaver... The one of Dolores and Fèlix is only one of the 300,000 cases– 300,000 cases– which is estimated to have been produced in the Spanish State between 1938 and 1996. They felt good: 1996. The ciphers are flattering. In Catalonia, there are hundreds of complaints filed for the popular names such as nadon robberies, forced disappearances of minors. The current situation is that thousands of people – mothers, parents, children, girls – are forced to live in denial and also in patience, unable to advance in the vicinity of their family members and restore the fundamental right to their biological identity. What we're doing with this law today is an act of justice and democratic reparation, because we understand that it's essential to provide victims with all the necessary tools. For this reason, this law that we will approve in this House with a broad consensus, as has already been pointed out, allows us to create an office of attention to the victims I accompany them, that the advisors in this search full of interbanks and many silences – many silences. With this, too, is created a DNA database that, as in the case of common ones, will allow us to continue to recover memory at the time we fight the passage of time. And I would like to end by saying that, despite the fact that the original proposal did not contemplate it, finally the law that we will pass today, this text of the law that we will pass today, also serves to go to the end of a phenomenon that has the origin in the Faixist repression, in the Francoist repression, which assumed an ideological genocide and that this model transition that they have wanted to sell to us has made it invisible and has found it under the guise of shame, as if nothing has happened here. But today in Catalonia, we raise this captivator and offer the victims a tool to help them in the search for truth and also in the repair, to the extent possible, of this pain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to finish this turn, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Elena Fort. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.16.0	Good morning, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, in the first place greetings to representatives of victims, entities and associations accompanying us, a very strong hug. In general, in life we can look forward, let go of what has been harmful, pass the page, close the house with three pieces and forget facts and people. Sometime, however, exceptionally, you must stop, turn your gaze, open the house, doors, windows and come in. Sometimes we have to look back so that, precisely, we can look forward, because if we don't know where we're coming from, we'll never know who we are or where we're going. And today we are ahead of one of these exceptional and striking cases. From the forty years until the beginnings of the nineties–96, as concrete; what really turns out – there were approximately 300,000 babies and children missing in the Spanish State; as has already been mentioned and we have repeated many times, both for initially ideological reasons as, finally, as a simple business, but always under the umbrella of a Francoist rule and its post-Transition followers, and always essentially against the gifts. We are ahead of a crime of human injury, which is one of the most difficult systemic violations of human rights in the recent history of the Spanish State and, therefore, also of Catalonia: theft and trafficking of people; and which challenges not only the idolatrous Spanish Transition, but all the gear of a state that for many years has not been able to give the correct answer, which is still silent and looks at the other side. A silent state, which has even failed to make any case the result of the work of the UN's Forced Disappearances or Involuntary Disappearances Working Group, which, after investigating the crimes of Francoism, concluded that... in Spain a state policy on truth has never been established, there is no official information nor does it encounter the mechanisms for clarifying this truth. In this context, we bring before this Ple, to the institutions of these entities and of these victims who accompany us, the Proposition of Law on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, before a corresponding processing and they have listened, in the corresponding correspondences in commission, to the victims, both victims, as the Observers of the Forced Disappearances of Minors, as the entities represented by these. A law proposal aimed at standardizing our country a system to provide the tools and resources necessary for the recognition and effectiveness of the right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition to victims in our home. The reality is that, in reality, it is only the courts that can give real answers to victims and their families, but it is also the administrations that must put all the necessary measures of real reparation and access to information in order to make their right to the truth and to this justice. Because, at the end of the day, we can be either of us, one of these stolen babies, or any of our friends, and we don't know that. Her proposal was presented to all opposition groups and the two groups that support the government we also wanted to make it ours. The joint work has allowed us to agree and agree on a proposal for a law, which we understand more accurately at the end with the accepted papers, with a basic consensus – Companion Reyes commented that they disagreed with some things, but basically we agree that it is essential, with these ad hoc differences – and to which Parliament's reader has given a final tactical and legal embodiment, which in the end has given an excellent result, I understand. Surely better, as you say, Bruguera, because everything is better, but I think we are responding to what we were being called upon to do. For this, I want to thank you: Bruguera company, for your expert as rapporteur; for the rest of the companies– Matías Alonso, Carmen de Rivera, Manuel Reyes, Yolanda López, Natalia Sánchez, and especially Raquel Sans, for their complicity. Thank you all. It is an honor for me to finish this legislature with the approval of this law, because we do not forget it, to repair in the measure that we can this pain and because it cannot be repeated again, and because only with the truth can we be truly free and build a better country. Thank you very much. And especially let me finish, this last day, my legislature, giving thanks to Jordi, for patience; to Eve, the Dawn, to be my memory; to the rest of the company of the group, and especially to the Year and Glory, which are my candy and my team. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After this debate, I would like to ask you, as you know, that the vote on this opinion will be held tomorrow, at the end of the two last questions. [[Project of the Facilitative Law of the economic activity]] [[200-00010/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, specifically the fifth, which is the debate of the opinion of the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge on the draft law facilitating economic activity. In the first place and on behalf of the Government, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Coneixement, Mr Ramon Tremosa, has the words to explain the opinion. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.18.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Well, briefly, because today's protagonist is not mine, but it's Members of this chamber. We have an economic facilitation law here. It's a coral law that drives different departments, but it involves a set of administrations in Catalonia, which is a law that we think is more necessary than ever. As you know, the pandemic has accelerated digital transformation into many areas, and this law seeks to consolidate the single business window in Catalonia, so that it incorporates the different administrations and facilitates it very much, so it managed it with the Administration, the relationship with the Administration. From this she can benefit the total practice of the autonomes and enterprises of this country. And in this sense, therefore, we understand that they correspond to the Catalan administrations to set themselves at the level of the digital revolution that has taken place all over the world and that affects all sectors of activity. It is a digital revolution that, perhaps because of the pandemic that we live day by day, the urgency of medical measures..., the debates about the evolution of the pandemic, therefore, do not allow us to take a long look and see that in the hour there is an authentic revolution that transforms and increases the productivity of all the productive sectors. For example, agriculture. If you go to Google and pose vertical agriculture, you will see how Holland has become a leader in the export of tomato to Europe. And it's not a country, let's just say, predisposed in terms of insulation, temperature, etcetera, to be-it, isn't it? But, in change, thanks to the digital revolution, it means that, for example, an enciam in Holland only needs 9_litres of water and no 250, 300, 350, as it goes to America or the Xina or other European countries. And I could give a lot of examples. I was Lleida last week. I visited a world-leading company in the manufacture of half-lics components for dental prostheses. A company that, in more than fifteen years, has patented up to eighty... has obtained up to eighty patents in fifty countries. And that's not a public euro, is it? And, therefore, the productivity gains that digitization supposes on all services must also come to the Administration. And, in this sense, only a given of my department. You know that in two months we have donated EUR 240 million in direct aid to different sectors affected by the pandemic, which we have paid for thirty-forty days. And that's what we did without hiring an extra person. And, therefore, we have opted for it and we still have much more performance than the staff that the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge already has. Therefore, the administrations must be on the rise, they must set themselves at the height of the digital revolution, which increases productivity in all sectors of activity. So, then, to end up, because I have an interest in feeling them to you and it's not my day, but it's parliamentarians' day. We intend to achieve a comprehensive management of business and professional data and autonomous data at the level of different administrations. This concept is important: comprehensive data management. We want to reduce bureaucratic burdens. We want to minimize administrative intervention. We want to establish the digital relationship between businesses and administrations by default. We want to fix that businesses and self-governments have to donate once and for all their data and that this serves for multiple processes. And so, so... plus, we want to proactively offer these digital services. For example, if a bar and a restaurant are to be closed for administrative decision and for reasons of public health, the Generalitat, for example, is proactive and asks these establishments: "A subsidy has come out. You want it? Apply. This is the philosophy of this law. So there has been an intensive process of debate and input from many groups that I would particularly like to value. And, therefore, there have been changes in relation to the pre-project of the law. We celebrate the incorporation of the people of Barcelona... I'm sorry. We celebrate the incorporation of the Barcelona Assembly into the unique business window. You know that there were many joints so far incorporated. And let's celebrate very much that there is the Barcelona Assembly. And we would especially like to thank the Socialist Party for the management it has done so that in the proper twelve months, which is the term we have given, the Barcelona Assembly, as well as the great assembly of Catalonia, can also be incorporated there. We also invite the State Administration to join in this unique business window. Because we understand, therefore, that these administrative consolidation processes can make the relationship between businesses and self-governments easier and more effective. I'm done. I'm going to end up with some graces. I end up with a few thanks to the people who have enabled this quick processing of this law, at the Corporate Management Office of our department. But this was also a project that incorporated different departments– Urbanism, Economy, Presidency, SOC, Environment, different legal cabinets– and would like to give thanks. And finally, Mr President, now I'm going to put myself in a place that doesn't touch me, but I make a proposal. This report should bear the names of the Members who have spoken to it, as is the case in the European Parliament and in other countries. This should be the Campdepadrós report, but it should also be the Cano report, the Orobig report, the Romero report, the Rodriguez report and also, finally, the Ferro and Aragonese report. And in the European Parliament, even the Members who are speakers, when at the end of the vote they do not like the one that came out, ask for the word and say: "Mr President, remove the new name of this report because I do not like the way it was left, which has been disfigured. So I think we need to put into value the intense work that you have all done and what that would be... It's like a law that carries by name economic and administrative facilitation and carries numbers, codes, a bar and the current year... I think it would stimulate the participation of the deputies. It would make it interesting, on the part of a Member, to assume this workload, which is often overlooked. And that would visualize the work that all of you do and each of you, which in this case was very remarkable. Thank you very much. And now with interest I will follow his interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then he has the word that he called the rapporteur, who is the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.20.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, the intervention as the rapporteur will be to explain briefly what the work has been, which will reflect the intensity with which it has developed and not the speed with which it has developed. In the course of the development of this bill, four sessions of appearance were completed, which took place on October 19th and 26th and November 2nd and 9th. In these sessions, there were substantial appearances, and in addition to four appearances that were covered by written contributions. The 19th of October we held the appearances of Foment del Traball, of Pimec, of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and of the Catalan Association of Municipalities and Comarques, and also of Autonomes Pimec and Pimec Dones. On October 26, we held the appearances of the Board of Industrial Engineering Colleges of Catalonia, the Board of Lawyers, the College of Architects of Catalonia, the College of Economists, the Board of Official Colleges of Administrative Managers. And on November 2 were substantial the appearances of the Barcelona Assembly, the Office of Activities of the Barcelona Diputation and the General Council of Chambers. And the next day, on November 9, were the appearances, therefore, in posenance of the Commissions Obreres de Catalunya, of the Association of Autonomous Professionals and of the professor Dret Administratiu Joaquín Tornos. And the comparisons that have been written have been four: the Federation of Gypsy Associations of Catalonia, the Catalan Association of Donations and Employers, the Council of Colleges of Social Graduates and also the Catalan Authority of Competition. Of course, we must be very grateful to all those who appear, both for their willingness to come, for their time and also for their contributions to the content and text of the project. We have already seen that, despite the celerity in the process, the appearances have been plural, representative of the business world, of the administration and also of the professional world. Of course, I would also like to thank..., it is certain that the Councillor, therefore, noted it, and we would like to thank him for his words as Members and, as the rapporteur, on behalf of all the people, all the Members of the Parliament, but obviously the initial impulse is from the Government. Therefore, I believe that I should thank Councillor Angels Chacón, who started the process of the law, and Councillor Ramon Tremosa, who is accompanying us today and who has finished it. But also to the whole department team, which I know is listening to us, and especially to who has been, in this sense, our link and soul to push the law to the department, Mrs. Cristina Pruñonosa, and also to the late woman, who has also been..., late who has intervened in the department in this law, therefore, the Roser Campdepadrós, who, as they did not escape, is my German. And also, naturally, thank the department, the Josep Vicenç Mestre, very diligent to attend all the meetings. And of course, and most especially, to the cast of this house, Mrs. Anna Casas, who, too..., many thanks to her diligence and professionalism, to her observations, which have enriched, through technical considerations, the text of the law. And naturally, also the parliamentary manager, Mr. Frederic Soler, that we made him go to bed. And, of course, the group's advisor, Roberto, who has worked very closely with this rapporteur. And naturally, the main acknowledgment did allow me to continue for the other speakers of the law, Mr. José María Cano, of Ciutadans ; Mr. Alfons Montserrat, of the Republican Group ; Mrs. Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress ; Mr. Lucas Ferro, eh? , of the commons; Mr Vidal Aragonés, of the CUP, and Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the PP. The truth is, I have them a great thank you. I am well aware that the processing of this law by extraordinary urgency, which has allowed us to arrive here today at the debate and tomorrow at the vote of the law, has been an ingenious, intense, very hard work sometimes, but I think we can congratulate ourselves on the work due to the end. This urgency..., they heard the need; I thank them very much for their availability, their collaboration. And I repeat what I said to you in committee: I ask you to apologize for forcing the work of this position, but that you allow us to arrive today, before the end of the legislature, this law. And I would also like to reiterate my apologies for the mistake I made in the commission, and that naturally, therefore, there will be no more consequences and that will be dealt with. And with the permission of the President and without specifically having to look at the passage of the law, I have the last intervention in this House at this late plenary session, but I would like to thank all the staff of this Parliament, all the staff of this House, all the staff of this House, who, with the current situation of pandemic, have allowed the continuation of parliamentary work and, therefore, allowed the continuation of all of us as Members of this House and not to engage in democracy; and thank all the Members and Members with whom I have had the opportunity and the privilege of interacting, of all I have followed. We've come to terms or we haven't, but we're all after. Naturally, also an immense thank you to the staff of my Parliamentary Group, from Junts to Catalonia, and to all the Members and Members of my Parliamentary Group, too, Junts to Catalonia, which has been a group to which it has been a privilege to belong for its intellectual and political level and for which... don't tell the listener, but even if you have paid to be there. And also, if I may, a personal thanks to the support that I have rejected from all the staff of the chamber – from all of you – in a difficult personal situation and that precisely thanks to this support I was able to overcome. And especially, if I may, to my secretary, to Eva, and also especially to all the secretaries of the Bureau – Mr. David, Mrs. Laura Vílchez and Mrs. Ruth Ribas – who have supplanted and replaced all the times that have been needed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the reserved items, has the word in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans the deputy Mr José María Cano. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, very good morning to you all. Today, they present for debate and vote the Bill on Facilitating Economic Activity. This is a project that led the former Business and Knowledge Counsellor and that you, Mr. Tremosa, have already found yourself on the table ready when you entered your post. In fact, the initiative was admitted by the Bureau of Parliament at the beginning of February. And in our view, this bill has had to overcome three major obstacles in order to achieve this approval process. A procedure of approval that we will do at this last plenary session of the legislature; therefore, ringing the bell. As I said to you, three obstacles have made it impossible for us to work as a classic bill and to resort to the procedure of the highest urgency, which means that the time limits for processing have been reduced to the minimum. The first obstacle is the obvious inaction of this Government, concerned about its subject and far from involving itself effectively and effectively in dealing with the things that really matter to all citizens and to the Catalan economy, as is the case with a bill like this, which seeks nothing other than administrative simplification. The second obstacle is the internal disputes between the governing partners that led to the cessation of the law-promoting councillor and that the new councillor had to catch up, a few months after the end of the legislature, almost without the capacity to react. And, thirdly – and it is fair to recognize what, that not everything is the fault of the Government and the councillor, obviously – was the Covid, isn't it? , the pandemic situation we are experiencing, with which we have been living since March. A situation that has greatly hampered our parliamentary work, where we have had to prioritize the emergency, damaging the processing of laws like this. These three united elements have greatly complicated the work of all parliamentary groups. And they have done so by limiting the number of speakers who could give us their views on the subject and by answering our questions and comments, by reducing the deadlines for working on the amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups, thus limiting the time for debate, the time for reflection and agreement. And it has been a real counter-clock race to try to get this bill to vote before the end of the legislature. Therefore, the first thing I want to acknowledge is the enormous effort made by the teams of all the parliamentary groups – especially those of the opposition – in order to ensure the quality of our legislative work. And I say this with complete knowledge from my position as chairman of the Committee on Enterprise, which has been in charge of processing. And at this point I would also like to thank all the work and help I have received from my colleague, from our deputy Martí Pachamé, spokesman for the Enterprise Commission, and from my colleague, adviser Rosaura Ferriz. Without them it would have been practically impossible to get there in time. Also of the lawyer, Mrs Anna Casas and Mrs Campdepadrós, and all the facilities and willingness to reach agreements and a consensus of the rapporteur rapporteur of the bill, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós, of the director of the Office of Business Management, Mrs Cristina Prunònosa, for all her attention, and of the institutional relations of the company councillor, Mr Josep Vicenç Mestre, for making things easier for us. Entering into the content of the bill, this bill is included in those measures that are aimed at promoting and facilitating economic activity and exploiting the entrepreneurial capacities of citizens. In the case we are dealing with, it does so by trying to maximize the advantages that the digital environment allows us in relations with the Administration. And the goal of all this administrative facilitation can only be to promote job creation and economic prosperity. One of the key elements for a competitive economy – and that is one of the policies that we implement from Citizens in those institutions in which we govern – is to simplify, as far as possible, all administrative procedures: reduce administrative burdens and bureaucracy, facilitating relations with the Administration, and that do not entail an excessive cost for self-employed people and businesses when developing their projects or opening up their new establishments; therefore, eliminating all bureaucratic procedures that prove necessary and improving and speeding up the rest. And I would add, in this context, above all, to avoid the creation of new obstacles; to achieve, therefore, to reduce to the maximum all the paperwork that companies face in undertaking or expanding their activities, and especially to think of the self-employed, micro-enterprises and SMEs, which are the least human and technical resources that can devote to all this bureaucracy, and that all those resources that they allocate to this paper cease to be available resources for the development of their businesses. This bill has as its antecedent the Law 16/2015, of administrative simplification of the Generalitat and of the municipalities; a law that creates a legal framework with the objective of reducing administrative intervention and tries to reduce those actions and controls that are..., or reduce to those actions and controls that are strictly necessary – necessary to verify the compliance of the regulations that regulate a given activity – and that are carried out in order to guarantee security and preserve the public interest. Law 16/2015 also meant introducing the figure of the single business window, which in a way is the basic idea of this bill, which is marked as one of its main objectives to advance in this idea of a single portal to analyze all business processes, thus facilitating relations with the Generalitat and with the municipalities. It is clear that Law 16/2015 has not solved many of the problems and delays faced by entrepreneurs in starting an activity or opening an establishment. To give an example: although it is stated in the regulations that any document or data already in the hands of the Administration should not be requested again, the reality is quite different. If the official in charge of the file requests it again, the self-employed person or the employer will choose to hand it over again in order to avoid delays in the proceedings, because the majority of local administrations do not have the possibility to check quickly, quickly, the existence of that document or data in their archives, although it has already been delivered to another department precisely from that same municipality. Therefore, one of the elements that this bill seeks to address is that when a data is already in the possession of an administration, when a data is already in the possession of the Generalitat, or a data is already in the possession of a municipality, it is not necessary to resubmit it, because it will already appear within the corresponding private area of the single business window. Another very different thing is that this is managed well, and guaranteed by the Government, in coordination with the rest of the administrations, so that in the end it is really so. Another feature of this bill is that, in order to facilitate the procedures for the implementation of the different economic activities, a different approach is used from the current one, that we move to another way of understanding the relationship of the Administration with the self-employed and enterprises, enhancing the principle of mutual trust, and that the control carried out by the Administration is retrospective in those activities that are not dangerous, also appealing to the responsibility of the entrepreneur or self-employed person who invests his money to start a business, and who is the first interested in complying with the regulations in order to be able to carry out that activity. Always, that is, ensuring proper ex post control, ensuring compliance with the regulations and all security measures. And another objective of this law is that self-employed people and businesses have new services so that they can manage their businesses in the best possible way, always under the umbrella of a legal framework that guarantees their rights. And let's look at the difficulties a little bit now. From our point of view, one of the main problems presented by this bill is the need to ensure that the municipalities have the necessary resources for their start-up, both for the effective implementation of a real one-stop shop, and for the change of philosophy in relation to self-government and business, moving from control before starting the activity to doing what started after. And it is that the pandemic has stressed to the limit the administrative processing systems of the different administrations, especially the municipal ones. We have seen how, throughout all these months, digital tools have often been the only possible ways to relate to the Administration, and despite all the efforts they have made, the shortcomings presented by the different systems have become evident. We thought digitization was developed, but in practice we realized that we rely heavily on traditional methods based on the usual paperwork. That is why some of the amendments we have tabled and agreed on seek the commitment of the Generalitat to ensure sufficient human and technical resources so that this law can be implemented in all municipalities. It will also be essential to train and recycle staff, who are now accustomed to a way of working and who will have to change the way they do it, where telework will have an important role in organizing the teams. Our amendments have also been focused on taking account of the differential characteristics of self-employed and micro-enterprises. Therefore, within the advisory council that defines the draft law and will make proposals on its implementation, we include the necessary representation of the entities that defend the interests of self-employed workers, so that they can also contribute their particular vision. Self-employed people do not have the means, the means that large companies have in doing all these procedures and all these efforts. And from the perspective of the user of these online tools, we also find a digital divide: there are many autonomous and micro-enterprises that need technical and training support to move on to perform all the processing in a fully digital way. One of our amendments therefore introduces the commitment of the Generalitat to promote adaptive programmes to train self-employed people and entrepreneurs who do not have knowledge of the use of these digital tools, and that this training is carried out both face-to-face and online, and that it is also promoted throughout the territory. Another of the key elements is that of the collaboration between the administrations – the counselor said – so that it can become a real one-stop shop and not be thousands of unrelated patches. The aim of the system should be to allow the employer to relate to all administrations from a single access, and if this goal is not achieved, the law will have failed. One example is that Barcelona, which is the main city in implementation of economic activity, concentrating more than 30_percent of the total activity, does not participate in the current single window and has its own system. It would therefore also be desirable if it were within the system. It is therefore essential that there be very close collaboration between the different administrations in order to make the system work and be a real one-stop portal for all companies. Therefore, one of our amendments incorporates, within the principles of the model, the collaboration and coordination between the public administrations, and seeking as a goal not only the collaboration between the Generalitat administration and the local authorities, but also with the rest of the administrations of all Spain. It is clear that many companies have their establishments throughout the territory, and that, in greater coordination, greater facilities. That is why we have included an amendment so that the commission that will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the measures included in this bill will do so with a comprehensive vision, with the aim of establishing new mechanisms of collaboration between the different administrations. Also in the framework of the amendments we have proposed, and in order to provide additional services to this single window, we have introduced tools aimed at facilitating financing, which is another of the major problems faced by self-employed people and SMEs in developing and expanding their activities, promoting the creation of a unified financing service with the aim of promoting activities that contribute to economic growth and thus to the creation and maintenance of occupation and innovation. Another important aspect for the group I represent is the essential evaluation of public policies. That is why one of our amendments introduces an additional provision so that, if this bill is passed, at two years' time the department that manages the single window prepares a report analysing the degree of law enforcement, the cost of its enforcement and evaluating the impact of the planned administrative intervention regimes, in order to be able to identify whether it is necessary to take additional measures to simplify the access and exercise of economic activities by companies, and that this report is published in the transparency portal updated periodically. It is essential that the evaluation of these types of policies be continued, seeking a constant improvement of the systems so that it really becomes a useful tool for self-employed people and SMEs. We have also included, through our amendments, that they facilitate the work for those who want to start a new activity. Some of us have been able to agree with the groups that support the Government, such as the elaboration of a single text that collects the regulatory regulations of the taxes assigned to the Generalitat and in this way facilitate their compliance and avoid errors, and others we have not been able to deal with, such as the creation of a portal where all the urban information in force is integrated, to also facilitate the activity of companies that face the disparity of regulations throughout the territory. This bill, as I have been able to tell you, aims to facilitate the relations of self-employed people, professionals and businesses with the Administration when initiating economic activities or setting up new establishments. Nor can we lose sight of the serious economic situation resulting from the pandemic, which requires developing all possible tools to save economic activity, which is as much as saving jobs. And, for this, one of the ways is to facilitate the implementation of all projects that can generate wealth and decent wages, preventing them from being lost in the limbo of administrative bureaucracy. And finally, a little personal reflection. This will be my last speech at the plenary session of this legislature and fate has wanted it to be to talk about a bill that aims to make things easier for the self-employed and SMEs and to boost job creation; in short, to talk about the real problems of Catalans. And I hope and hope that in the next parliamentary term we will not have to wait until the last plenary session to deal with what really concerns all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mrs.Alícia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.24.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Today, again, with the debate and vote of this Project of Facilitating Economic Activity Law, I believe that the responsibility for opposition, the tireless work of opposition and the value of opposition is evident, sometimes so lacking in this Parliament. I'm telling you for two reasons. The band that has already repeated a lot, during this parliamentary term, that we are before a exhausted, divided and broken government, we are before a government that has no parliamentary majority. It is clear that it forces parliamentary groups to support the government to be generous, to dialogue and to agree, because what they claim to approve, therefore, is brought to an end. But, above all, that which is a very intense work of opposition, because the work to us is multiplying, and, therefore, our work ends up being very valuable. It is true that, for example, with the decrees of the law, forty-two decrees of the laws that have been brought into this Parliament, there has been neither this dialogue nor this work, and despite all that has been approved, for the responsibility of the opposition, has there not been? I therefore believe that it is also worth noting today that the work of the parliamentary groups in accordance with the opposition is worth it. The second reason I gave you the import of this opposition is because this law, as well as what we are discussing later, is being dealt with, has been dealt with as a matter of extreme urgency. This means that the terms have been reduced – and so have my predecessors – to the terms; this means that we have to make fewer appearances than we would, in less time, and above all, the time has been reduced to submit statements: with all the prorogations, deities, and after, obviously, more days to work on the question. So, I think it's a negative way to work, painful way to work. We should not allow the legislative task to be done in this way. This government is going – we have said this – with a weak balance of this legislature, right? And in this House, which brings us five laws – now, this morning, two – so this, in order that these laws probably end up approving, can make a much more positive balance. But we believe that... the government has a certain merit because, obviously, it has brought these initials here, but I believe that the tireless and exhausting work of opposition, doing an impossible job, must also be put in value. Because, look, I've said it many times in the polls – and the speakers who accompanied me know it – that is that one of the main tasks as Members is to legislate, this is the value that this chamber has. The legislative chamber by excellence is the Parliament and what needs to be done is to legislate, to legislate well and to legislate rigorously. And that's why basically what's serene and time. And they know that – I've said it many times; and I said it, but I'm not just saying it – there are many authors who talk about it, and they say that lawmaking is a science and it's an art, and therefore we need knowledge and gentleness in order to legislate. This is why the legislative procedures basically allow us two things: that external people, with knowledge, come to compare and illustrate and illuminate us, many times, and have time to work and mature a law. This is basically the opportunity that gives us the legislative process. These days I've been looking at things, with the little time we've had, and I've found... The Virgil Zapatero is a professor of right philosophy who published a book in 2009 that talked about the art of lawmaking. It is one of the most complete works we have in Spanish doctrine, because there is no guarantee in this need. And one of the ideas of his work is that the norm – I want to read it so as not to be mistaken – "the norm, the law – he says –" must be one of the most worthy instruments of state intervention, not complying with a mere expression of power, but, as it was said during the Illustration, as an illumined will for the reason. It's 389 pages that such a time would be good for us to read this Nadal. It also refers to the dignity of legislation, doesn't it? Jeremy Waldron, who spent a lot of time and made a lot of rebounds the first time he mentioned it. "The dignity of legislation, I find fantastic. We legislate to solve a problem, to organize ourselves socially an area of life, an aspect, and that is why we believe that we need to do it with a clear head, with time, with sereneness, that it is what has not brought us, therefore, the processing of this law of economic facilitation. The impact of a law is great, it is very great, it affects many people, in this case many businesses, many administrations. And we think it can't be frivolized. With this ride over this law, I think we've been a bit frivolous, haven't we? , and we've corrected the mass. And I can't say, I think, that we legislate as Waldron said or as Virgil Zapatero wrote in his book. I think we should think about all the folds on this. That bill of law that's trying to lay down some instruments, isn't it? , put in some instruments so that the activity does not hurt the setbacks – it is said very often – of the democracy beam bureaucracy of the Administration. I think it does, but it would also be necessary, because it is important that we guarantee the maximum speed and efficiency in the work of the Administration, but we also need to ensure that this..., that the activity is done with the maximum guarantees and respect. This, in fact, was largely done with Law 16/2015; it was, in fact, the most important impulse to simplify and facilitate the economic activity of the Administration. This is a step further. It is true that it is a step further, but the great change was that; in that case it was a law processed with a certain normality and we were able, therefore, to work more firmly. We, from my group, gave support, because it seemed to us that it was true that it gave a boost to administrations to simplify all this economic and administrative activity. Ara, my question, isn't it? Is that: that law has improved the bureaucracy, has improved the business situation at the time to boost and start its activity? I think that's the question we should ask ourselves before we ask ourselves a new law. Honestly, I don't think so. And I think in the debates we've had, we've seen it. There are many administrations that still do not comply with the law. That's what Mr. Vidal Aragonese said, of which I am also after a lot, because it's true, the law already speaks, in many cases, of two_months, and it turns out that there are meetings that in the late eight and six, that is, that are not complete the law. How do we complete the law? Why for many laws we do, if we don't probably have the instruments, what is it for? And I think this is one of the problems we have. So I ask myself this: did that law give an answer? I honestly don't think so. And now we have another one. Well, let's see what happens, but a law to solve the problems; the law must be accompanied by instruments and resources that allow the one who is being chased to pass. And I'm not entirely convinced that this is what it is. And what happens is that then it generates frustration, because we don't meet the goals we pursue. And I don't want to be pessimistic, huh? You know I don't. But one, when it comes to law, also has to ask a few questions. The principle of the law says that this law will benefit 826,000 businesses, right? , says, and will save €38_million to businesses to reduce the administrative processing of the bureaucracy. Well, he doesn't talk, for example, about joints. It's very important. That is to say, this law..., basically we carry some obligations to the assemblies, so that after we force them, so that we get rid of the bureaucracy, so to speak, that I do not like the word, initial so that we have to do an ex post check. This ex post control needs inspection, and therefore we need resources to be able to do this. And I think that this lack of sensitivity towards the gatherings, the instruments and the resources is obvious in this law. And I think that we probably haven't just solved it. Look, we've worked hard on this law, we've done it out of responsibility, and I think we've always done it willingly. In fact, from day one we said that we share the principles of the law and the principles that appear in Article 5. The mutual trust that must exist between the Administration and the Administration, in this case enterprises, but also the citizens, the responsibility also of the citizens and the enterprises, and, therefore, the ease of starting activities we share. But, as I said, I have doubts that we are finally ensuring that this is the case. And I say we've volunteered to agree – and Mr. Campdepadros knows – because we've attended all the meetings that have been held with the government. And here I want to thank Josep Vicent Mestre and Cristina Prunònosa, so they have helped us to hear some things; it is a very technical law and, therefore, it has not been easy people. We have presented, with this voluntary agreement, thirty-six papers jointly with the Government. I mean, we've been trying to get this going. We haven't been in the band for twenty-seven, some of them have been accepted; not eight, but I have to say that the balance is positive, it's true. I think we from responsibility always try to improve the laws. And I think this law has improved, if we compare it to the initial text. I don't know if that's enough. And I want to put, for example, this Barcelona theme that the counselor gave, and that I also want to thank him for his intervention because he can agree. He did not speak of Barcelona, this law, when the 30_percent of economic activity passes to the city of Barcelona. Well, we were able to incorporate an additional one that talks about the competitive regime of the city of Barcelona. I think it's very important. There is a compromise, too, that in twelve months they will be incorporated into the single business window, with which all this means. And I think, therefore, that I should also congratulate the Councillor's intervention, as well as the first lieutenant of Mayor Jaume Collboni and the entire Barcelona government, for, listen to me, being part of these jobs, right? But well, I don't know if the balance is as satisfying as it is to give for good this law. I've said that a few times, too, huh? : who is the Parliament and not the Government, and sometimes also in the debates appeared very much the department does not say, "to the department it does not seem, "to the department it does not like. Well, the department doesn't rule... well, the department rules and doesn't legislate, and we're legislating the deputies, right? And we'd have to take that into account, too. Returning a little to the law, there are some elements – many – that have improved, it's true, with the reviews of all, but there are a few others that we have left behind. Not so much because we didn't accept papers, but because the text, and so on, doesn't convince us at all. I mean, if we had three months, would the law be better? Sure, why would we be able to grow things, right? Congressman Ferro, who says yes... clearly, it's that sometimes... we've already done some research that even, oysters, we don't even know where to locate her. I mean, things need to grow up and they haven't grown up enough. And this is, a little, our negit. For example, the Commission for the Facilitation of Economic Activity. Yes, establish some functions; we still have some doubts: if I had no other... It is true that we have granted who should belong to this commission, but I am not sure that we have done it the best way. After the paper of the assemblies, which are very important in this law; so yes, there is a paper. Finally, a statement was accepted, for us not very satisfactory, that the vice-chairmen's meetings in this committee, when really who is to be found or much of who is to be found the problems will be them. The strategic projects, which is true that it is an innovative article; it is to say, that when a project is strategic, this may be overtaken by some processing. It seems to us that it is a generic, ambiguous, non-concrete mass article. And this can end up feeling like a strainer that makes any project named "strategic" – between comets – go through a lot. This is what makes us a certain resurgence, and I think we haven't solved this in the text. We haven't solved it, and we're not satisfied enough. Not when the inspection elements appear, are they? We have tried to find resources for this ex post inspection that will be done, and that will have to count on annual plans. We don't know how to find this collaboration with the Generality as an institution, because there really is a very clear recovery at the gatherings in this. And I think this was an important issue: inspection and resources for this. Many of our living papers, which are not many, are on this line. But I'm telling you, more than they've accepted many of our papers, we've done deals and I'm grateful – and I want to thank Mr. Campdepadros, with all the affection I can have, despite the fact that that said made us suffer a lot – it's true that one has a certain relapse with this law and with this text, and we, from this point of view, will be very hard for us to make a favorable vote. Although, as I say, we have improved the law and worked on it, our vote is probably forbearance. But I'm telling you, 'cause we're running out of time. And that's a thought we'd have to do. Can we pass a correct law in such a short time? So I don't know. I believe that this is a reflection that the government should do and that we should also do from the Parliament, it was not so often that the laws generate more problems than they resolve. This would be frustration and weakness, say, of the chamber and legislative functions. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur's work, from all the speakers, from whom I always learn a lot. It's too bad the ponies don't last any longer, honestly, because I think they're coming up a lot. We are not experts at all, and therefore we sometimes need this joint work, to listen to fellow students, to have contact with professors, such as Mr. Tornos, who lit us up so well and so did his appearance. I would also like to thank my parliamentary group, my group's technical team, the fellows, and especially Anna Casas – the late Anna – who is rigorous and serious, and who always goes with us so that we can legislate well, because we do the best we can. Actually, Anna, thank you very much, because it's a pleasure to work with you and help us get better at it all the time, isn't it? And I think that's something to thank you for. We've done a lot of work for you, under conditions that are not acceptable, and that's why I think, not just for the electorate and for the Parliament's team, but for everyone, and for the legislative outcome, I think we do have to set ourselves up as we do things, "a pocket as worthy as Waldron says," as it is to legislate. So, anyway, a lot of thanks to everyone for the work we've done, but I think we've been short and we've had a little time to do better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.25.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.26.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members and Members, first of all, obviously, thank all the members of the delegation, despite what we have discussed and how fast the whole delegation has been, the members of the department, the Jaume Vicens, all the people who have helped us, the settlers, the outcast, the technicians of the parliamentary groups... I think we've done a bit of what we could, with a law that has been corrected. There is one thing they have in common all the laws of economic facilitation that have come forward in the last two years, and it is that all have been processed of urgency, and, in our opinion, all have been processed of unjustified urgency. Because an element of urgency has to be justified, and I am very sorry, but the government has kept the law locked in a jail for three years does not justify any urgency; what justifies is that the government has not done its job. And I'm saying that because the urgent procedure is stolen from parliamentary groups, she has the ability to intervene properly in the legislative process. And having not done the work, that the government has not done the work, does not motivate any objection. And I think that sometimes we're too loose. 2011, the names of the laws" omnibus: one of them was the Law of simplification, agility and administrative restructuring and promotion of economic activity. A set of laws or a law that modified a viewer of laws, which, in fact, we have doubts about its legality, because it does not even complement the material homogeneity that must be completed by a law, and it is that it deals with a concrete material issue, and that was processed urgently, from fifteen days of public hearing to a week, to bring it to the parliamentary debate. Law 16/2015, simplifying the administrative activity of the Generality and local governments: two days of appearances, like this. And that are laws that affect the rights of administration, the rights of consumers, the rights of the citizenry, the processes of environmental impact, the municipal powers, the economic management of many pimes and of a lot of economic activity in this country. Two days of ponència, a week of parliamentary work and running. And I think that reveals a background problem. That in the last two years Parliament has not been able to devote three_months to debating how to create a law that gives guarantees, which gives legal certainty, both to public administration and to the promotion of economic activity in this country, is obviously a burden. And they're debates that can't be resolved without day, correction, because they always have to settle late and poorly. And I think this pose was an example. I am not angry with you, nor with Mr. Campdepadrós, who apologized for some mistakes that there were, but that they are mistakes that are not even the only fault of the layman, they are the fault that we impose time on ourselves to correct what the Government of the General has not done in time and form, and that we bring our fellows and the laymen of the law to explain themselves and send documentation to improve this law, and that we bring the parliamentary groups the ability to work with civil society to improve it. And I think that one day this should be over. Well, this law does one thing that we share and two things that we reject and that will support our vote against in this law. The first thing we share is the modernization of public administration. Obviously, we need to modernise public administration; not because, as you say, public administration is through the exercise of the free enterprise in this country, because all that we have built, all the architecture of democratic guarantees, environmental guarantees, labour risks, security, urban planning, etc., are suddenly going through the business in this country, if not..., and therefore all the law and all the procedures administered and demanding an employment law and requiring an environmental impact audit, all of which are legitimate and which are against the law of the business in this country unless they are disturbed by the state of law. We don't believe in this right. We do believe in a right that does form part of the administrative right..., in a principle that does form part of the administrative right of our country, that administrative intervention must be effective and proportionate. And that, therefore, the telematic management of certain administrative procedures makes it possible not to collaps the Public Administration. And obviously we agree. In fact, it has been years since we reported that detailing in human and technical resources to the Public Administration is detailing in the rights of the city council, also of those who promote economic activity in this country. And, therefore, we cannot agree more that it is necessary to allocate technical and human resources to the public administration in order to expedite the administrative procedures. But they do two things that we don't share. First, mess it up. It is a law that basically contemplates the speeding up of the procedures administered from the deregulation of all those elements that formed part of the pre-administrative intervention. You have to prove that you meet the requirements to start an economic activity in this country. From now on, you will no longer have to prove, because a principle is established, that it is the principle of mutual trust. That if an entrepreneur says he completes the law, then I trust him – an entrepreneur. A city that goes to demand guaranteed income, no, with this one there is no mutual trust nor there is only such trust; this one will have to continue to pass all the bureaucratic passages from here to grant it and to enter it. But a businessman, yes, man. If we don't trust entrepreneurs, Mr. Tremosa, I don't know who you can trust right now in this country, right? And, therefore, we see from what we see, that if all that you are required is expected to believe that a company complies with environmental, labour security, different sectoral regulations for its functioning, we will move them all to subsequent inspections – you go ahead and I will already inspect after you have completed the law – this means that there will be sufficient resources to ensure intervention. 114 of my parliamentary group rejected for the groups supporting the Government: "The competent administrations must credit their capacity for subsequent inspection and control before giving up the expected control of economic activities in all the procedures I have renounced. That is to say, if we do not pre-inspect that a company meets the requirements to start operating, we must ensure, as a minimum, that we will do it later. So no. Here no one is concerned, that the inspections after are sufficient to certify the correct functioning of the companies. That's what I'm saying. It's not working. I don't know what you, business friendly, etc. are like, but I do not know what you're doing; among other things, because to be honest, the guarantees that we've built also defend the interest of many economic activities in this country, which are right that companies don't do or compete unfairly or speedily, in order not to comply with the regulations, the functioning of their company. So I wouldn't say just business friendly, but the thing that seems to me, obviously, both for the rest of the business and for the rest of the country's citizenry, is that it's a waste of jobs. 184, also rejected: "The Generalitat de Catalunya must ensure that all the administrations involved in the proceedings collected in this law have the human, technical and economic resources necessary for their deployment, as well as ensuring the personnel necessary to process the sanctioning shippers from the periods established in this law. The Generalitat promotes a system of electronic processing to which not only the same Generalitat is to be incorporated, but all the administrations of the country, and it is not responsible for the rest of the administration that is to be incorporated with neither technical nor economic means nor human resources sufficient to deploy it to guarantee the compliment of the law. I honestly don't see that as responsible. Then, we are aware that digitizing public administration has economic costs: it involves investing in technical middlemen, professional training middlemen, etc. That's worth money. Who do I pay? Who is responsible for this law that drives the Government of the Generalitat to assume the rest of the country's assemblies? The little ones, the big ones and the middle ones and the rest of the public administrations – the local councils, etc. No one here is responsible. It's easy to make a law that says: "Look, I'll transform the entire public administration of this country, but I won't put in a euro or any request or guarantee that the law is complete. Emena 183: "The Government of Catalonia must submit a technical report on the human, economic and technical costs of putting this Law on economic facilitation before its deployment, as well as establishing the economic and technical support mechanisms for local administrations. Also rejected. That's how easy it is to legislate. If one is disentangled from the economic impacts they have on the rest of the administration and the rest of the citizens of this country, it is easy to read the laws that one approves, if it doesn't fit or memory economics to approve them. If one is disentangled, including that it is feasible to deploy them in the conjunction of public administrations, we could also have made any kind of law much more ambitious. Why not? Then, there is one element that we seem to be worrying about and that we have insisted on the law and that we want to insist on because we see it present in our society, and that is what we call digital Britain. There are many autonomous peppers in this country that do not have enough skills to enforce them..., because electronic processing is not preferable, as we proposed in a statement, it is mandatory for economic activity in this country and to relate to public administration. And we are not responsible for the fact that the economic agents have a support plan that allows them to acquire skills about how a pea, a micro-enterprise, an autonomous, etc. is managed by telematics. We are not responsible for the fact that the Public Administration can incorporate it, nor that the citizens to whom this Law of economic facilitation is made have sufficient skills to take advantage of it. I don't know, actually, I'd do some thinking. And then you do a second thing that we don't share, at least as they put it in this law, which is: the government will be able to decide which business initiatives are strategic for the future of Catalonia. And that sounds good to us, to regain some ability to plan which is the product model we want in the future. But last week, in committee, you said, in relation to the European foundations and the LOSS, the strategic projects that we would designate for the future of our country, that you would like the rest of public administration to be able to participate. And I said to him, "I have a point in this law that recognizes the ability of the Government of Catalonia to decide which projects will be strategic, which I think should be of our interest. Projects designated as strategic must be presented for the Government in plenary session and approved for the Parliament of Catalonia. I said to him: "Home, if you ask that the strategic projects that are funded with European funds count with the participation of the rest of public administrations, let us apply the story and establish a governance model that we can at least then claim to the Government of the State that we are fulfilling. So he's been turned down, too. How has it been rejected that the rest of the local administrations of this country can participate in the designation of strategic projects. Or something that is being discussed in the European Strategic Fund Regulation and which will form part of it, and it is clear that future projects cannot be a waste for the future, and therefore those that aim at energy transition and climate change in our country must not be excluded. And, curiously, we have presented another theme, theme 81, which says this textually: "It will not be considered strategic projects those that, despite bringing added value in any of the areas described in the previous point, contravene the objectives of conservation of natural heritage of energy transition or reduction of gases with winternacle effects or environmental contamination collected in the Catalan legislation or fixed in the objectives of the respective governments. And he's been turned down, too. The honest question is: could Hard Rock be considered a strategic project that deserves to be reprocessed as an emergency and a legislative change to measure? Yeah. Would you have mechanisms, this Parliament, to intervene in this designation of strategic projects? No, no, Will it be able, any democratically elected public administration in this country, to intervene in the designation of the strategic project? No, no, So what kind of governance model is the most maco you've ever come up with. Therefore, we will vote that not on this law. And we will vote for it as it has been done – a process that we do not share – because of the deregulation it entails, because of the abandonment of functions that the Government of the Generalitat assumes at the time of financing its deployment and at the time of ensuring that all the administrations that join it are able to guarantee the compliment of the legislation in this country [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And why don't you just count on the Catalonian Parliament to designate the strategic projects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.27.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.28.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.29.0	Thank you. The next speaker, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, is Mr Vidal Aragonese. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.30.0	Good morning, deputies. We wanted to make a direct intervention, but we would change it, for two reasons: firstly, because the honourable Member Ferro has illustrated to us, and, therefore, little more to say, we are absolutely in agreement; and because the distinguished Member Romero has illuminated us. And so, we're not doing a right-of-government intervention, we're just doing a right-of-law philosophy intervention. Right philosophy, why? Because, in the first place, there are two realities of how you can observe the rights. It is possible to observe from whom it has economic power, from which it has a privileged position, even respecting political power. And these sectors, respect the Administration, never want guarantees, never want intervention, want to remorse everything they – for them – are obstacles. And then we're the rest of society, the majority, the popular classes, that we want and need guarantees and rights. And this is the general mark we're talking about today. And, look, this law – it incorporated it when it was proposed and incorporated it with what you approved tomorrow – repeats two of the great mantras of neoliberalism in relation to the issue. The first of these: the one that refers to companies having limitations to create for the intervention of the Administration. This can be repeated many times as usual, and then they come to their parliament or to any forum and believe in facts if this really does or does not. It is to say, if it is an anecdote, if there was any company that wanted to set up and suddenly the administrator said: "I leave it, I do not continue. I won't create the company, because there are so many passages... that was probably once, it was an anecdote, and you repeat it to build it as if it were a reality. With this we do not want to say that there are no administrative actions, obviously, that can be a difficulty and limit. Clearly, this is a reality. And another reality is whether or not the neoliberal mantra that fits into this law is real or not. And the second of the questions, the second neoliberal mantra respects the Administration: if we eliminate the guarantees, there is economic activation or reactivation – another mantra that is not real. If the situation is of crisis, there are zero guarantees, there are no entrepreneurs; if the situation is of growth, with all the guarantees, they will create all the enterprises. And for us it was important to be able to fit this into a reality, which determines that we are voting or not voting. And, of course, Mr. Ferro previously said: "The guaranteed income of citizenship, the perception of the subjective rights... That's a subjective right, to say the least. And what's the status of the administration? So look, in this country it's much simpler to be a manager, who will then process the guaranteed income of citizenry, than you will not get the guaranteed income of citizenry. This is the reality, and this is what we're also discussing. That said, we also want to remind you that the year 2010, with Catalan legislation, has already passed a law, the 26/2010, which spoke, to a good extent, of what it is necessary to resolve – and still has not resolved – in relation to the performance of the Administration. And then, after all, not in 2010, but in 2015, another law, on 16/2010, spoke of the same. And today, or tomorrow, when we vote, a portion of the content will go back to what we already have, and it won't work. And, therefore, that which leads us, of course, is to vote'no. We also have to tell them we've done reviews. Or, better said, rather than doing them ourselves, we have incorporated items – we also have to do this recognition. They were not really ours, but we did take them politically; the work was done by others, and, therefore, all thanks. To try..., one of the guarantees that they wanted to limit, above all that can cause fires and fires – and let's say it literally, not in a metaphorical sense –..., therefore, that never passes absolutely ever. And one last idea, because for us it's metaphorical of what this law and its process means. When I wanted to ask, I loved the reaction, the ex-abrupt of Mrs Romero – I will say'reaction, I could say ex-abrupt, any of them. I'm gonna love it. But I also loved the reaction that Mr. Campdepadrós had after him. No one, Mr. Campdepadrós, does this in political life, which is to recognize that sometimes we can be wrong, but I would miss it. But I have to tell you something else: you didn't make a mistake. I recognize him and thank him for the gesture he took, but you weren't wrong. What happened is what happens when we eliminate warranties in the administrative process, Mr. Campdepadrós. If we want to reduce the processing of a law so much – which is what we are doing, too, in the administrative processing of what will be approved tomorrow – then things like what we approved happen to us. And this is also the reason why we will vote against it. We recognize your personal merit, we recognize you absolutely the gesture you took, but you were not mistaken. We're all wrong... or the majority will opt for an option that is wrong for us, that is to eliminate guarantees and go with an acceleration that, after that, always causes mistakes. And today will be the first time that I will not exhale the time of my intervention. The two minutes I have left, I'll try to recover at some later point in the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.32.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, as I think I will run out of time, I am eliminating the graces and adhering to the graces that have already been expressed by the rest of the spokespersons, right? And I want to start this intervention just as I started the intervention in the whole debate of this bill, right? : the exercise of an economic activity is a right of citizens, not a grace of the Administration. A principle that has also inspired some of the considerations that I hope will be incorporated today, if there are no mistakes, in relation to this philosophy. Because, precisely, this law goes from this, that people can exercise their rights. I insist, people. Because, in the end, entrepreneurs aren't some weird thing about when you're with money, but they're people. They only have capital, they only have access to capital, and there are many – many – of humble, many who invest their stables, many who mortgage themselves in order to open a business. And now I'm going to skip the guide and this will waste my time, but... Listen, I've seen, because my professional activity has gone from this for many years, as a person has mortgaged his home, his living, to be able to lodge a place in a downtown street of a tourist resort, invested to fix the place, filled the ice cream nevers and stayed with the blind closed for weeks, watching people pass by the front, waiting for the visit of the municipal engineer, waiting for the visit of the municipal veterinarian... And when they had already passed, he continued with the lower blind, hoping that the registrar would sign a paper and send it to open the blind. This destroys any – destroys any. And, therefore, the simplification laws that we carry for years trying to adjust, trying to fine-tune, what they claim is that this is not happening, and that these costs that are absolutely unnecessary and do not bring absolutely anything else is being eliminated. That is why I disagree with Mrs Romero when she told us that ex post control of the activities involved is an overload of work for the local administration. It's the opposite; what involves overloading the joints is making planned checks. Plus, in a hurry, because there's a rush to open the business. And the ex-post control allows this control activity to be adapted to the availabilities of the same together without undermining security, because there is already a responsible, there is already a technical certificate, which, in theory, has to ensure that, effectively, all the regulations are fulfilled. And now to see how I do to reconnect with what I had predicted. [[Pause.]] Two considerations. Two considerations about the reviews. One..., yes, one of the objectives of the law is to make it practically a reality..., it's not anecdotal, I think it's important, huh? – that people provide data only once. That's to say, the Administration can't ask the city twice for documentation that already has, right? And it's very good that we try that this is material once and for all, but I can't repeat it eleven times in the law text – eleven. What it takes is to make it possible and to make it happen, but I can't repeat it many times. Another element that we consider important: applying the principle of business continuity in the case of changes in ownership – changes in ownership. « Change of ownership means that the holder of the activity ceases to be a person and becomes another person. It is not normal that, when this happens, the activity must be closed – it has absolutely no sense – waiting for a signed paper to arrive that authorizes that change of title. There's no sense in it. And that's what we think is important, because that happens, and it happens more times in the account. Another element: the fact that the single business window does not have to serve only for the citizens' relations with the Administration, but that it should also serve because the administrations communicate with each other in a transparent way with the city. It is to say, that when an assembly or an administration expects another administration to issue a certain report, and while the city does not see what is going on and does not know exactly what the situation is..., it would be useful for the administrations to use this same channel in a transparent way with the city, so as to communicate. These are statements that have not been incorporated into the text and that are kept alive and that, therefore, we are voting. Between the built-in or transactions, let me highlight two of them. One, the one from Barcelona. It was important – as we say –: you have not heard a law of these characteristics if we are not able to incorporate in it the assembly that processes a 30_percent of the activity permits of all Catalonia. We believe that, with this in mind, this will end up being possible and it will be possible to ensure the interoperability of the information systems of both administrations. Allow me to focus on a theme that has been incorporated, which I feel proud of, because I think it's important. The law foresees that, if an activity is closed for more than six months, I lose the enabling title, and therefore you have to restart all processes as soon as you want to open. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where there are many activities that have closed – and that have closed. And, therefore, we also need to make it easier for these activities to re-open. And that's why we felt it was important to extend this six-month term to at least one year. And with this I urge the government that, if they find that this is longer than necessary, they may extend this term so that those activities that have been closed can re-open [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] no need to restart all procedures. And I end up as well as I did in the totality debate: now is not the time to succeed – it is not the time to succeed, but now less –; now is the time to snoop and push growth and job creation. Wait till I read this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.33.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.34.0	...you do that, because we need it more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Congressman Alfons Montserrat now has a return. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies; good morning to everyone. Well, today we're taking to the approval of the Economic Facilitation Bill. The Councillor and the rapporteur have already explained to us the abst of what they claim with this law. And, besides, all groups without exception we know, given that we have been working intensely – maybe short, but intensely, huh? And a good show in are the more than two-hundred items that have been presented on the part of the whole bow, that, regardless of whether some may be approved and others may not, do not stop being more than two-hundred moments or points or elements of reflection and more than two-hundred suggestions of better. Regardless of all the contributions that have been made, right? , for the various entities, associations, col·legis, etcetera, that have participated in their appearances, something from here, therefore, we want to agrarian, eh? For another band, we are also aware that, despite the complexity of the law, the processing may have been quickly conditioned by a calendar that we have, adjusted for, which is why we are also appreciating all the efforts that have been made so that today we can be here, in the Chamber, debating this law, right? Anyway, in the current situation, I think everybody's a match, huh? , that those actions that are aimed at reactivating the economy are important and are also urgent. This law seeks to boost economic activity in the current digital environment with the design of a new standard so that the relationship between Administration and the company can be established just at that point of balance between that which represents, for one song, facilitation, and also, for the other, rigour and demand. This rule will eliminate bureaucracy, avoid putting hard things when it doesn't touch and look for efficiency, stability and trust, which are three concepts that I think this is perfectly acull, huh? For example, the principle of prior acceptance established by law in subsequent administrative supervision would be a good example, huh? , of these three concepts. And here it is important to remember that the Catalan product fabric is not integrated by large enterprises, only by peppers and micro-enterprises, for which all the excessive bureaucracy that can imply an excess to its activity, huh? ... it is necessary to agile and seek, as we say, this point of balance which is key so as to follow easier, and at once combine, this ease, to make those skills and those demands worth, are requirements of medium-environmental type, etcetera, right? Therefore, I think this law is perfectly at this point of balance. So, I think we have an instrument that facilitates economic development and competitiveness without the Administration giving up, that's why, to defend general interest or security, huh? It deepens the digital factor to take full advantage of the potential of the new technologies, simplifies and harmonises procedures, also in reform in an important way of others, and eliminates unnecessary barriers and decreases this processing time and costs. And I think it was Mr. Cano talking, huh? , of the antecedents of this law, since 2010, and also of the Catalan model of the Electronic Administration and the law of 2015, which already configured the principle of single window. And now, in this new law, we are trying to create a new environment that still drives this economic activity and seeks to place the enterprise and the entrepreneur in the center, and to establish this digital relationship by default, given that in the current environment, the competition that we find ourselves with digitalization has already become an obligation. This change of conception implies many questions, such as, for example, what was said to move from managing forms, eh? , to manage data, which is already an activity that places us fully in the 21st century. And this also presupposes many other questions, such as making the standardization of the information effective by the administrations, so that it can be inter-changeable and that it can also make this principle we are talking about, of 'only eleven'. The main novelties that we would highlight... have already gone out: the figure of strategic business projects. Those companies or projects that can represent an innovation, economy of knowledge, generate added value, etcetera, could be joined in this process, which would mean reducing processing times. Here the criteria will be defined every four years, as a maximum. And here it is necessary to have an accurate implementation so as to ensure that this administrative highway is only available to those projects that are really strategic and that we are truly akin to a more innovative, more inclusive, more sustainable economy, in order to avoid that, for an excess of laxity, it can be distorted. Other novelties or contributions serious this evolution of the unique window model, which would allow the necessary processing from a single point independent of the competent Administration; the willingness to be, this Administration, proactive; did it, right? , of the prior communication following this model of mutual trust, in which the company can obtain authorizations by means of a responsible declaration and the subsequent taxation, responsible declaration, which, for another band, is not to be interpreted as a free bar menu, but is precisely a mechanism of agility that can be replaced by a control provided that there are circumstances or reasons of general interest that advise it to do so. Therefore, this new standard framework also requires a new governance system, which is based on the commission for the economic facility, represented equally for the local administration and the generality, an advisor council and a business management office. And so, we're ahead of a non-retardant ambition goal that's gonna be hot working day by day, huh? , how it is to smooth out an effective and not only nominal or formal digital integration, or – it has also been commented on, has it not? – find this proper incardination between the Administration of the Generality and the local world with the city of Barcelona, which, as you know, has a special rule. In short, in this new standard, it is estimated that they could be joined..., they could benefit 89_percent of the country's enterprises, which would represent a little more than 80_percent of the employees and 90_percent of the autonomies, and that it could suppose some estalvis of an order of magnitude of a little more than 38_million euros. So, finally, this law reinforces this role of the Administration as a source of knowledge, advances to what it should be, what it is, a true administration of the 21st century, huh? , which accompanies and reinforces the dynamism of our product fabric: an essential tool at a key moment to help reactivate the economy and to business and administrative modernization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word again the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.38.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, members of the board, especially... To see, it is unquestionable that this law that we are debating today and that tomorrow – I trust – we will approve is different, and very different, I would say, from which he entered here in Parliament. And it's a much better law – it's a much better law. And it was precisely thanks to the wealth of contributions made by all the groups, even those who did not support it. Even so, there have been contributions from some MP who would withdraw the name of the law, but they are also incorporated into the law, and they have also improved it and enriched it. Therefore, what I value is precisely the ability of this, of contribution, the ability to debate and the ability to understand, that I understand that they have improved, and in some aspects substantially, the one that came from the law. I leave it here, formally, in your Parliament, because it consists of the Minutes, that we will vote for all those items which were recommended for the debate and which, as a result of the debate on the debate, appeared as recommended, and in committee, for the circumstances described, did not prosper, but we will vote for all of them, two of whom were objected to a later deal, precisely, with the Socialist Group and with Mrs. Alicia Romero, who also understand that it is, still, a last step of the better of the law, to pass..., which were general principles, which became obligatory by the Administration, and I believe that it is much more precise in this way. I accept the criticisms that have been made at the ceremony in the handling of the law, but in fact, I have not pushed it if I myself have not been convinced of the need for the law, eh? And it was needed before. Certainly, the pandemic situation has simply made it worse. We all know that the pandemic has accelerated processes that were on the march – in this case, digitization. And, therefore, as a further tool for the exit of the pandemic's social and economic crisis situation, this will be a piece, a further tool, to collaborate on this exit. Because, precisely, it's not so much the emphasis on electronic processes – that they already were – but, in fact, this law introduces a paradigm shift. Because the fact..., it's true that 11 times it is insisted that companies only have to bring the data one time. But I find it good that I insisted, because precisely it was one of the great criticisms of the entrepreneurs, of the chambers of commerce, of the business sectors, the fact that it had to repeat the information at every stage that you had to do. So I feel the first time that this is done, that it is legally an obligation to assume the Administration, so it is good that it is repeated. And, besides, it's not about making electronic transactions... the form that was on paper right now we're going through electronically; it's about a comprehensive data management, it's much more there. It is actually the authentic use of digitization in the field of the relationship between administration and administration. And this data management translates into other advantages, that some have been the object of the debate on the question and are novel. For a band – and it is obvious – it will allow simultaneous processing of claims that are now to be dealt with consecutively, and this is an agility. But there's a concept that I was particularly pleased with, and in the debate we had to debate it, and I defended it convinced, that it was the question of proactivity. In other words, it is no longer about that passive administration which is limited to rebre, to prove, to end up authorizing, to end up denying..., but this administration, which has these data – which are rich, they are capital, these data – will have the obligation to manage them for the benefit of the administrations. It will not be limited to being data depot, information depot, it will not have to be re-asked, but, more than that, it will make it easier to serve them proactively. And, besides, strictly in the realm of his skills, we accepted a thought in this sense, which was clearly delimited. But in order to give some example, what we prefer: that an activity that begins, commercial, of the type that follows – for example, a drugstore –, then, when they pass the inspection, it turns out that there was a lack of additional demand for the treatment of certain chemical products and remains subject to a sanction, or that, when it is being processed, the Administration, for the data it has, detects this and is limited to communicating to the administrator: "Select, you also have to process this law? Is that what we prefer? Or when today, with the situation of pandemic, certain lines of aid emerge – as the advisor refers to it – from the Department of Enterprise and other departments..., to provide precisely to the potential beneficiaries these aids or the existence of these aids? Therefore, we are ahead of a change of mindset and paradigm that, obviously, is not there. They know you're not there. We have found and we are aware that Law 16/2015 has not yet been implemented at all, that the terms that are established there are not always all administrations complete them. But, on the basis of regulations, they also created changes in costumes and mentalities. That this has been linked to mutual trust, which precisely has to change the relationship between the Administration and the Administration. The Administration must cease to be seen by the administration with that enemy, with that obstacle..., this mentality that many times has reflected the appearances of entrepreneurs, that are still caught, that are all through. They are not sticky or crossword puzzles – which I also want to talk about now – but this mutual trust must be precisely for an interaction. The function of the Administration is not to place footprints. And what is sometimes seen as hitting – and that I guarantee and that I absolutely share – are guarantees of public interest. This – Mr. Ferro, I give you the reason – are guarantees of public interest. And the fact that control is ex post – and it is an ex post control that does not deprive absolute control or have to deprive absolute control –, as Mr Rodriguez said very well, will allow for a control probably more rigorous, more thorough and more accurate than not for the rush to open the business. That is to say, the control is ex post control, and public interest must be guaranteed and the compliment of all the regulations guaranteed. Because we can't have a company and some competitive companies that are on the cutting edge – as we want to be in this country – of all the world's technological, climate change, energy transition, without precisely completing all the environmental regulations, urban regulations, workers' right regulations. Of course, this has to be guaranteed. But the fact that I'm ex-post doesn't mean I lost the guarantee. Therefore, I have this concern and this requirement exactly as you can hold them. And this law also takes great care – and here we also have a debate with you on your part – for total and absolute respect for local autonomy. That even we ended up accepting a certain suggestion from the cast, Mrs. Casas, that you end up with a final arrangement that you had included total respect for local autonomy. And this is where we had the discrepancy in one aspect that you made reference to your intervention. You were talking about the fact that in those items, which we did not actually accept..., the Generality had to ensure that the assemblies that joined the system had the means to do the controls, the inspection means, the means up to and including the sanction. We understand that this, precisely, violates local autonomy, which we believe must be fully respected. This law, precisely, has been scrupulous in this sense. According to a band, there is the Generalitat – which is what the law does – but it does affect, and a lot, the activities that will have to end the meetings, because many of these processes have to be done at the municipal level, but precisely we have to respect the local autonomy. This confidence that it wants to establish the law of paradigm change and mentality between Administration and administered must also exist between administrations. It is obvious that the Generalitat must be confident that the joint membership of the platform or that, with its own systems, it also adheres to this single corporate window for this unified data management among all administrations..., it must also have the confidence available to the media, it must not go to examine and verify it. So... okay, we didn't accept the papers, but it was with total conviction and this concept of local autonomy that I think is important. And it's also important the thought that was finally introduced and negotiated, and very grateful, in this sense, to the work of Mrs. Alicia Romero. Barcelona cannot be an island of Catalonia. Barcelona is the capital of the country. As many of the others who have spoken before me have said, 30_percent of the activity is concentrated in Barcelona, and could not stay outside the law. That is to say, a law that you do not contemplate Barcelona and the incorporation of Barcelona into this data system a time, of mutual trust..., how could they donate the data a time only if the Barcelona Assembly is not on the margin? The barcelons should give them twice. So, all philosophy... this paradigm shift that he wants to introduce the law has gone absolutely well. And also concern about the digital bretsa that were manifested by more than one of the speakers. The law contemplates it. And, besides, there are other departments, there are other means that actually... The law facilitates, for one band, the life of the peppers, the autonomies, but we are also aware that they are the ones that many times have fewer resources, and therefore also must have means that can facilitate their knowledge, facilitate their transition and facilitate them, precisely, the ability to use the mechanisms of this law effectively. And, actually, this will be a process, like everything else. Laws introduce measures that force you to change insecurities, that force you to change minds. And that takes time, but I have to do it. I, indeed, this step further beyond the Law 16/2015 called for it. And we are all aware that the pandemic situation has also accelerated these changes a lot, and this will be an essential tool for these changes to have a proper follow-up. Therefore, effectively, I understand that we end the legislature, among others, with a useful law, with a necessary law, with a law that – Mr Cano is right – is, in fact, one of the citizens' concerns, it is a great concern of entrepreneurs, of autonomies and of peppers. But it will also allow me to, with all cordiality, tell him that the concerns of the citizens..., this is it, but there are also others. We finish a legislature where we continue, therefore, with prisoners and exiles. The president of this Parliament made a thousand days ago that she was in prison. This also concerns the citizens. Injustice continues to feel it, conflict continues to feel it... While there is injustice, there will be conflict. Our will is that there be no injustices, that there is no conflict. Therefore, freedom political prisoners, and viscose the earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.39.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Urban Economic Promotion Areas Law Project]] [[200-00017/12]] After this debate, which we will vote on in due course with the rest of the points dealt with in this order on the day, we go directly to the next one, which is the list's system and corresponds to the debate of the opinion of the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge on the draft law on urban economic promotion areas. I take note of Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, and bearing in mind that it has been requested, we will give the Councillor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mr. Ramon Tremosa, a first round of words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.40.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Also, as before, I will not waste my time, because the protagonist is the deputies, in this vital process, which is the parliamentary approval of this text. We have a law on urban economic promotion on the table. And also, as in the previous law, I want to begin by recognizing the many important contributions made by opposition groups. Indeed, this Parliament has had a..., there is no government that has an absolute majority, and, therefore, here participation is still relevant. And that can be done many ways, but, as in the previous law, there have been very important contributions that I think have enriched and greatly improved the text in this parliamentary process. So, I want to put it in value here, too, don't I? We have some areas of urban economic promotion that want to be a tool to facilitate economic and commercial activity, that can mark a before and after our city models, and that want to achieve, therefore, that all the sectors that are part of these commercial centers are involved and participate, and that there are no free riders as we sometimes see happening. Therefore, the objectives we want to achieve are to increase public-private collaboration, to improve professionalism and competitiveness, to improve the representativeness of the territory and to favour trade in our city centres, where there are, in many cities of Catalonia, and people, therefore, this urban plot that also defines the model of commercial Catalonia. This is a first law that is also new to the Spanish State – there have not yet been any other Parliament that has legislated on this issue – and that intend to consolidate this compact, complex but cohesive city model, which defines the Catalan economic model. Catalonia has more than one hundred_ thousand commercial establishments that generate 15_percent of Catalonia's GDP and an occupation for 500,000 people. Therefore, all the law that I want to improve, strengthen and strengthen this trading system..., is very important that it is placed on the table and valued for citizens and parliamentarians. And above all, when we see, in many other countries, that it is very easy the process in which it is possible to desert a center of the city, because the inhabitants run away, because the botigos run away, the trades run away. And that, so, we see it very often, and I can't go anywhere to see it, can I? So far we have a business model in which, therefore, the involvement of the sectors is often voluntary, requires individual contributions that not all agents make – many times large operators that there are in these city centres, in shopping centers, do not make contributions – and there has been very little public-private collaboration. So, we want to strengthen these elements, we want to improve them, and that's why the APEU model is based on the business better district, which, as you know, has been working for many years now that in many other cities of the world has helped modernise, update, make more powerful, this commercial network with the service that these businesses do to the citizenry. Therefore, I conclude by recalling these objectives that we want to achieve: more public-private collaboration – remembering that we approve it so much of the assembly in question as well as a qualified majority of the shops and trades involved in the specific area – ; we want to improve professionalism, competitiveness; we want to promote trade. And, therefore, we have on the table a law that we hope, from the government, that is approved for this Parliament. And I end with the thanks to the Directorate-General for Trade and to so many other people of different service, legal areas and various equipment, who have collaborated with the government in the presentation of this law. And I end up also recognizing the role of the Members who have spoken to it. As I said before, to Europe, to the European Parliament or in other countries, this law would bear the name, in this case, of the rapporteur: it would be Artadi law. It's a nicer name than not that name, APEU, which is an acronym... that doesn't quite know what it's talking about. And it would also be customary, therefore, that the names of the deputies of the other groups that have intervened there– in this case, Pachamé, Alicia Romero another time, Lucas Ferro, Aragonese, Santi Rodríguez – figures without also in the name of this law. Because that, in addition, makes a recognizance of the work that individual Members have done and, in addition, stimulates that the Members are more likely at the time to take on this charge so often ungrateful and little recognized as it is to try to improve a law facing their approval in the parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. The next word is Mrs Elsa Artadi, a deputy who has been appointed by the bill's rapporteur. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.42.0	Thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor Tremosa. In fact, this is a law that many years ago we looked to pull forward, around two years ago; often Congresswoman Romero also remembers us in this very faristol. So it's a shared effort. An effort and contributions that have been sustained for a long time before arriving here. Admittedly, APEUs are an instrument based on public-private collaboration, but they have public-interest purposes. And that's why we have to do the law today, and that's why there are elements of mandatory contributions from this law. The law aims to promote this participation of the economic fabric, of the economic activity, in initiatives that they have to see with improving the quality of the urban environment, to consolidate the model of a compact city that stops the desertion of the commercial centers of the urban nuclei. The object is to ensure that we have an environmentally more sustainable model, and, therefore, walking cities, friendly, lively, social cities. And also, for the group of economic activity polygons, therefore, which is converted into areas of business cooperation, promoting competitiveness for the sake of the generation of job vacancies and a more sustainable economy. One of the key elements of this law is, precisely, the establishment of compulsory contributions, which is what must make possible these interventions which have an impact on the whole of the area concerned, but also on the whole of the municipality, which is why there is this public guardianship in the law. And it's... before we did, right? Years ago, it was years ago, the one that cost us, the difficulty that there was, because it has cost us to adjust to the right how to make this formula that forces economic activities between an EPA to make this contribution, and that does not go so far, that some contribute voluntarily and others do not. Finally, one of the glitterers that allows us to be here today, and that has allowed us to do all this work the previous weeks and months, has precisely followed this figure of the non-taxary public property benefits, which, despite being a technical element, is ultimately the center in the reality of this law. Thus, the Government of the Generality, on the proposal of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, approved the bill on July 7 of this year. It was brought here to Parliament, and the debate of the totality we did just three months later, October 7. At the time he presented a petition to the totality by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, a petition that, as it did not prosper, so..., followed, the processing of this law. And the members of the ponència – as the Councillor also reminded us now, and that, in fact, it was a real pleasure to be able to work with all of you – have followed the deputy Martí Pachamé, of Ciutadans ; the deputy Alicia Romero, who had not worked together for some time, of Socialists and Units for Progress ; the deputy Lucas Ferro, of En Comú Pomão ; the deputy Vidal Aragonés, of the Subgroup of the Candidature of Popular Unity ; the deputy Santi Rodríguez, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and the deputy Jordi Orobtig, of the Republican Group. I sincerely want to thank you very much for all the work you have done, the good work and the – very much – work we have to do. We have to talk every hour of the day and every day of the week, and you've always been available, despite the fact that we all have a lot of work to do in parallel. Therefore, a very sincere thanks to the work that could have been done in two weeks, since the totality of the law was debated until it arrived here today, in the debate on the committee's opinion. Especially thank those Members – and now we've seen it, haven't we? Congresswoman Romero, Congressman Rodriguez and Congressman Ferro – not only today, this morning, you are carrying this law, but you have also carried the facility, and therefore it has still been an overload. Thanking – I do it, I am sure I do it on behalf of everyone – the constant guide that has provided us with the letter, Mrs. Anna Casas, her and all her team. Without their support, without rigorous work, without being available at any time either – by message, by phone, by mail – to resolve all the doubts we have had – and I must confess that, in my case, there are many – we would not have been able to do so. It has always been full of pedagogy and patience and has allowed us, therefore, to fulfill this objective of closing the law in these two weeks. We were doing telematics comparison sessions. In the first week of November, four. A first with entities and associations of the economic sectors: with the Promotion of Work, with Pimec and also with the Union of Industrial Polygons, which had previously done a lot of work to bring together all the contributions of the sector, and, therefore, served as a source for many other entities. A second session with the local world. Today they approve of this tool. This tool gives the umbrella, but then it has to be developed by the local administration. Therefore, without the involvement, without the contributions of the local administration, we could not have ensured that, once approved this law, it could actually be implemented. The municipal authorities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and also the Diputació de Barcelona took part. We had the third session with the unions, where the majority unions, the Workers' Commissions and the UGT participated. And, finally, we had to have a later session with experts, who, on agenda issues, planned work commitments, so..., only, in a very special way, did the doctor participate in the right to finance and work, Mrs. María Luisa Esteve, which I think was, in a long way, the longest attendance we had, the most intense. He had the ability to solve a lot of the doubts we had, he brought all his knowledge, and I think he really guided a lot of the debates that we later had with the Members and the Members. In the band of ponència hearings, up to twenty-nine appearances were required per writing. And, of course, this mechanism was chosen to balance between keeping the country's very valuable contributions of trade in arms, of venereal entities, academics and experts, with conjure it up with the certitude that we thought we should give in this law, which was long awaited, so that we can arrive at what is presumably the last Ple of this legislature. As a result of all this work, 157 papers were presented by parliamentary groups. And, certainly, as we were working from the first day he entered the debate to the whole, some of these items, not a few, were already entered by more than one group. The ponència was held on 2nd December, and the Commission d'Empresa, on 10th December. And this was left with eleven items withdrawn, and they joined it as forty-three, and twenty-nine more transactions, also recommended. Certainly, there has been a substantial and better transformation of the text since it came to this chamber and through the papers, and surely some things will still change in the day with the votes. So, again, thank the work of Parliament's servants, with the Anna Casas in front. There were a large number of technical issues, because, while we were at the political level, so this had a concatenation with the rest of the articles, and, therefore, it was also essential for his work. Very quickly, the law is structured into two titles, forty-one articles, three additional provisions, one derogation and three finals. The first title is the main part of the law, which includes most of the articles and the content, because it is there where it regulates, therefore, everything that has to do with the APEUs, from the functions that are contemplated and the process of constitution from the beginning of the limitation until the final approval in the city; its financing, as is to be done the assumption; its management organs, as is to be done this agreement with the local administration, until the end of the extinction and liquidation procedure. And, on the other hand, the second title, which is smaller, basically what it does, from the recognition of the singularity of the economic activity polygons, therefore, to translate to what is specific, to what is unique from the APEUs, to which are the industrial polygons. Finally, and in order to finish this initial intervention, I would also like to thank all the support, all the tireless work that has been done since the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, starting with Josep Vicenç Mestre, who has vetted the calendar, who has previously completed it, and who has not left us and who has arrived here today, but also the expert, the knowledge and the pedagogy of the Director General of Commerce, the Muntsa Vilalta, in Jordi Carbonell – the Deputy Director of Industrial Policy – and the Deputy Director General of Commerce, the Montse Gallardo, who we have been back and we have been able to work again. And, finally, the last words, for Congresswoman Teresa Pallarès, who, although she could not be the rapporteur for this law, did go on a constant follow-up, sometimes from home, sometimes from the hospital, from this law, and made contributions to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the reserved items, has the word, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.44.0	President, councillor, deputies and deputies... First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Artadi and the rest of the speakers for their willingness to agree in the process of this bill. And also a special thanks to the President of the Commission of Enterprise, my company José María Cano, and to our advisor Rosaura Ferriz, for the help in all this process. Also mention and thank the late Anna Casas and the rest of Parliament's team and collaborators. Thank you very much. It seems that today, or tomorrow, in the votes, will be approved with a broad consensus this Urban Economic Promotion Law Project, known as APEU. It will have been done in a very fair time. The whole procedure was done practically in one month, and it was above all due to the good will of all parliamentary groups, which is done in such a short time. Doing things so fast has its problems. Even though there was a broad consensus among the agents involved, the truth is that we were pleased to be able to listen directly to more experts and to have more comparisons than we have ever had. Taking advantage of all the organizations, social groups and experts for their appearances, most of them written – it has to be said – because the urgency in the handling of this law has prevented us from enjoying the possibility of listening directly to many of these contributions and the possibility of questioning them in those more dubious points. From all angles, it must be said that we have achieved an important knowledge of the reality of the sector and its needs, and, therefore, we have been able to adapt, with the papers presented among all, the articulation to the requests and contributions that have been made clear during this short period of time. We truly believe that the text has improved at the end of this process. It should be noted that the fact that the broad acceptance on the part of the agents involved has made the adoption of agreements on our part relatively easier, and we have not detected particularly important problems. As I have already commented on in your day, the main demands of the trade sector were focused on four points: reduction of administrative intervention, business hours, EPAs, and digitisation and adoption of the nine forms of consumption. Today it will take an important step to improve aspects of two of them: administrative intervention and APEUs. This should allow the sector to gain in competitiveness and productivity, and that, when we can donate this phase of the pandemic to the end, the sector has enough tools to recover from the current economic crisis. We are not happy with the approval of this law, especially because its effects will occur in the medium or long term. Conclosure of the process of constitution and creation of an EPA is not an easy task, and it is not because there are many agents involved and will adequately explain the pros and cons of this instrument for the economic promotion of specific areas of our towns and cities. Above all, because belonging to an EPA means contributing to its financing, and the cost-benefit relationship will have to be clear so that all the negotiations involved in the EPA assume their own responsibilities. Where special efforts have been made, it is precisely in trying to limit the possibility that the figure of the free rider exists, which takes advantage of the benefits but does not want to participate in the costs derived from its operation. We are not satisfied with this law for the sector. The help that came in was badly designed, not enough. They will not prevent many of the trades – small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of the sectors, infinite of autonomies – from shutting down their Persians in a definitive way. What's spread is pushing them out of the way, wrongly, and they've been told one time and another that what's needed is to implement rescue plans because people can endure until there's economic recovery for the trade sector and for all those who are painting the crisis more painfully. Say what the government says, the truth is that a great deal of self-government and small businesses can't stand it. They can't be happy with the sun with this law. This is an important step for the future of the sector, but we cannot forget that business projects cannot be stuck in the jails of different administrations during months and months. I don't think I can surprise any of us. Especially in times when, because of the pandemic, they are more necessary than ever businesses and fill projects that can bring economic growth with the greatest possible celerity. A greater flexibility at the time of applying the commercial schedules and the festivals that can be opened would help to appease the fall of sales in one of the peak periods of the year. And, according to other considerations, the great pending assignment of trade is its digitization and the adoption of new forms of service. It is absolutely essential to encourage a change in the sector's businesses in this sense, and this does not mean abandoning physical presence, but rather it must be a complementary model. It's no use making statements criminalizing certain businesses and calling the boycott. In this sense, it must be noted that the formation of the commons on certain sectors, which, above all, are very important to our economy, is very important. He made statements against the automobile industry. Moreover, the deconstruction of urban mobility in Barcelona will be studied at urban schools all over the world as an example of avoiding and demonstrating the evil that ideology does when it goes against the common sense. The company that wants to boycott the mayor of Barcelona – which I do not want to advertise – has invested more than 2,900_million euros in all of Spain. There are more than nine thousand peppers working here in Spain than more than two thousand are Catalans. It is the community with which the most peas work, and which assumed exports of 100_million in 2019. Give work to more than nine thousand people. This company has three logistics centres at Prat de Llobregat, Martorelles and Castellbisbal, a logistics centre in Barberà del Vallès, and three logistics stations in Barcelona, Martorelles and Rubí. It has a software development center that gives work to engineers, software developers, data mining scientists, experts in automatic learning and cloud storage, more than a pimes support center for southern Europe. Is this your idea of costing the Catalan economy, ladies and gentlemen of the commons? Is it your idea to be more competitive, this, to boycott? The new distribution channels for small businesses must be profited by them, in their own benefit. At these times when mobility is restricted, the use of new technologies, the digitalization of trade and the acquisition of the necessary skills to coexist with these emerging models are more necessary than ever. And the Administration is not to organize boycotts, it is to accompany the different sectors in the progress and with the new channels that operate thanks to technological development. Open the door or facilitate in these times of crisis that the establishments can use the formula of click and collect, above all the trades that are located in the commercial centers and that are suffering some asymmetric conditions – to say the least – respect other types of trades, such as those located in areas for the travellers of the centers of the cities or the great warehouses, that do not have on the table a higher health risks, is distressed. The alternative of being able to serve actual commands through an application or a phone call could appease the brutal drop in sales that, I insist, has hit the sector. Let us resolve that, if the government really has an empathic and leadership capacity, it has come close, but that the intestinal struggles between the government parties have ended up frustrating the desolation of the citizenry. APEUs can, must be an alternative to improve competition, competitiveness and the profitability of many businesses. That's the idea. They must be a lever more than the urban trade sector uses to become resolutely innovative and specialized and because they offer quality and serve with better levels of efficiency and efficiency. It is one more tool that, from the approval of this law, they will tend to its abyss and they will be able to develop according to their needs. It's a good tool for the future, a tested tool for the world and a remarkable index of success and popularity. It is a tool that allows for the completion of projects that are ingressors, collaborators, which allow, for example, sales associations to not be able to participate in this project with their own idiosyncrasies and to conform to what the parties agree, giving them the entrance to the general assembly with their own eyes. With regard to his parliamentary handling, it must be said that, personally, I have an uneasy feeling. For a band, it is satisfying, given that we have reached an important level of consensus on a topic that gives answer to a demand of society that was insistently demanded from a long time ago, since two years ago – it has already been commented here –: to agree when the object is the welfare of the whole society. It is very satisfying to agree when everyone can profit from the result. It's very rewarding, when we can work for everyone. This should be our goal: the well-being of all citizens, because we are all important and we all need to get out of this crisis. This law – and we mean it from the beginning – has seemed to us that it is not worth being processed of urgency, the last day of the last plenary of this legislature. And more knowing that he had slept at the councilhouse many, many months. It has gone through its process because the Government has not been fond of its main function – to manage for the sake of all the citizens of Catalonia – and has devoted itself to other tasks. Only to see the legislative output that we have had these past weeks to see that the interests of all Catalans were not the highest priority of the government; there were other things. And even though we knew it and we didn't like the way the government's policy was being done, knowing that during months and months they were ignorant of all the opposition, knowing that since our formation we've been giving our hand to help in what we believe and didn't take into account, except to approve the decrees that the government was teaching us when it was all done and blessed, knowing all this, and even though we didn't like how it was done, when the government asked us to be able to do everything possible to speed up the process of this law and the economic facilitation, among others, we didn't want to doubt. We did what we wanted to do, because we wanted to put together the common good and the interest of all Catalans – of all of us. And he said he was upset because, if he was pleased to be able to bring this law today with a very high level of consent and to have the conviction that it will be approved, it was also a sad feeling, because it was possible to prove what could have been this legislature if the Government had any other objectives and looked more towards the city of Catalonia and not just for one side, if this was more or less important. The coming legislature will have the difficult challenge of managing the recovery of the health and economy of our community. They are, in the past, reptating and ambitious objectives, that will mobilize millions of euros for the reconstruction of Catalonia thanks to the Next Generation project, led by the European Union; that they will develop innovative and disruptive projects that will bring our economy to the future, a future that will have to be by force more ecological, more digital and, above all, more resilient. To bring this project forward, what we have very clearly – we don't have the slightest doubt – is that who is leading the project more ambitious and with the greatest potential to grow the future of our entire history must be someone who, above all, thinks of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again, Counselor. Members and Members, today ends a short and intense way for the approval of the Law of the urban economic promotion areas, known as APEUs. Socialists have been wanting an APEU law for years. In fact, it was the year 2012 when we presented the first proposal of the law to create this regulatory framework that facilitates the creation of these areas. At that time we didn't get out of it, but it was the first parliamentary precedent to establish this regulatory framework that allows the creation of these instruments. It was 2012 when, surprisingly, it was Convergence and Union that voted against the law's proposal. And we could say that we've lost eight years, because maybe if we did the debate at that time and the legislative work, then today we'd already have some areas of urban economic promotion. Why, in fact, it was 2009 when some assemblies, driven at that time by the Government of the Generality, that tripartite, put on the march some pilot tests, didn't they? ; did Granollers, did Mataró, Terrassa, Barcelona. Jo, who was then director of Mataró, so... we pushed those phase 0, which we said, and phase 1 to analyze the viability of an urban economic promotion area, in our case, at the center of the city. And, therefore, we believed a lot and still believed in these instruments, which, moreover, were already successful in northern European countries or Anglo-Saxon countries or also in the United States, right? So we fought hard and we believed it, but we didn't get out in that first stage, the year 2012. It was the year 2017, in the debate of the Law of Commerce, you serve and fire, which also on our proposal we incorporated a final provision in which we instigate the Government, therefore, to put in march, in divided_months, to carry..., to process in this Parliament a law on the areas of urban economic promotion. We divided them, which seemed to us to be enough; you think we're now approving the laws in three months, huh? That's what I'd say... I'd say the two of them, sooner or later. We gave it to the government. That term wasn't complete, because it didn't arrive within months, but it arrived three years later. It was July 28, 2020 when Parliament's Bureau processed this bill we're debating today, wasn't it? Therefore, it is true that one has the feeling that we have lost a few years to drive an instrument that must help in competitiveness not only from the economic activity of a given environment, but also from the municipalities, the municipalities and our cities, right? And, therefore, it is hard for you to know that this has happened. In any case, the fact that this project was submitted so late forced us to run, to run a lot, to run a lot, didn't it? I think... I said that in the past, too, and we have to say that in this. We wanted this law, I said, and with the responsibility that we always feel even though we are in opposition, we wanted to help. And we accepted – and Mrs Artadi knows this – to go quickly, in this law. We're gonna take the emergency procedure, and I mean, huh? It is to say that here too..., although I am critical of this, I think we accepted it thinking, well, then, that we could have time for the law to be approved with all the necessary parliamentary work. And above all, we thought about it because we lost eight years ago and because trade is at a very difficult time. We don't do this law – I think I should say it – because we're in a pandemic, no; this law is not for a pandemic, because this instrument won't solve all the problems of trade either. That's to say, if we haven't done the job for the past few years in the commercial sector and helped him to have new placards, to respond to consumer needs, to have shopping experiences..., that's to say, if we haven't helped all this – that's digital... –, now because we approve of this law we won't solve its problems, and that's also to say. But in any case, it seemed to us that it was up to us, therefore, to process it, even though it was so fast, didn't it? We've been through a stressful process – I think they've all said that too – that's to say, a few appearances in a few days, a very short time to submit papers, less to make a pose and to be able to work well on the legislative text. And so, well, today we have a text proposal that's better – it's true – than the one that came in; it's better, but well, to me too, as before, isn't it? ...I won't possibly pose so philosophical, but it does generate some final doubts. I believe that the work of legislating must be done with the necessary rigour, with the necessary time, I have said so before. The texts have to be matured, they have to be able to turn around, and I think that's why we haven't had much time. Anyway, what are the APEUs, right? Because in the end we are approving this, we are approving the possibility to facilitate the creation of these instruments. Well, therefore, the APEUs are an unprecedented figure in Catalonia, often also in Spain, and they are basically an instrument that allows you to promote cooperation..., I would not say "collaboration, but public-private cooperation to generate in a physical environment determined by the agglomeration of economic activity which, together with the assembly, improves its competitiveness. And so when we talk about APEUs we're talking about this, about a physical environment where there's an economic activity that decides to join together with the assembly to set up some activities. And we could say, "Well, that's been going on all my life, so to speak, because in the joints it's convenient with merchant associations and it's been doing business. And it is true – and it is true – but there is a difference, an important difference, and the difference is that in this you create the obligation that all economic activity participates in this common work to do these activities. Now what's going on? Which is voluntary, being a member of an association, and so either you are or you are not and you pay or you don't pay, right? But what is clear is that traders benefit from what that association does, even though they don't pay. Because if we put some Nadal lights on the street, then all the dealers in those streets will benefit. And here's a simple example, which we can all hear. On the other hand, this law allows you to place the instrument and also that you can incorporate the payment obligation into any economic activity that is within this physical delimitation, which can be a city center or can also be an industrial polygon, which is the novelty that incorporates this law. I think it's important to focus on this obligation to pay and on the creation of this quota, because this is a delicate issue, in this law, that we haven't resolved well yet, that I think we need to give a few more times. In fact, the law already refers to a modification of the Local Rule Base Law. In this sense, therefore, Barcelona has worked very hard. Director Ballarín has been working with her team for years to try to find a safer answer. Why, if not, now what happens? That we depend on the joints, that is, that we depend that each joint approves this quota by order and, therefore, generates the obligation to economic activity. We don't say it's bad, but it's true that we pass the responsibility, in this case, to the joint. And that's what we want to say. Why? Because in the end what this law does is to force the assemblies. It is a law that regulates an instrument that passes to the cities and approves the plethora of the assembly, and therefore with a very great responsibility of the consistor, that, obviously, if some requirements are fulfilled, then it can approve the creation of this APEU, and that it has to approve an order where it is established this quota that will have to be paid by everyone. Ull, with this, that sounds silly and it looks simple and it's not – it's not. And here have come some disagreements, say, in ponència. First, because we wanted to make it clear that the competence of economic promotion is of the joints and that the APPUs that they could do is complement the services, complement the activity, but not replace it, never – ever. The whole thing is that you have skills, and so this has to be made very clear. And our reviews have been a lot about this, which one who has to approve the APEU is the plethora, no..., sometimes we count it together as if it were one of us; no, the plethora. And we've also been able to incorporate that into the law. And a very important issue, on which we did not get out – and here the government, therefore, has agreed with Ciutadans –, is that it has the initiative to launch an APEU. We thought it was supposed to be the private initiative. When the economic activity is mature, it is solid, it has enough support to say: "Now I'm engaged, I start the APEU adventure, then I have the initiative and I ask for it together. In the end, a statement from Ciutadans was accepted that the assembly could also do so, I say, with a certain agreement from the private sector. We thought it was better and clearer that it was always about entrepreneurship, because, if not, it happens many times – if we bring Barcelona from the equation – that the assemblies lead everything – we lead everything – always comes from the municipal initiative. And when we go to create an instrument that, moreover, will create an obligation to all economic activity, whether it is trade or industry, I think it is important that the first convinced and the leader of this demand follows the private sector. And, therefore, we here have kept our agenda and we will keep it, and, moreover, we share it with some groups in this Parliament, but we have not, in this sense, gone out with the Government. Then, there is another element that we are happy to accept, which is the support for this initiative. That is to say, there must be some traders or an economic activity or industrialists who propose the creation of the APEU, but it is true that the initial text raised a support to bring this initiative down. We have said that as at least more than 50_per_cent you have to approve the creation of this APEU. Because, I remember, let's go back to it: we'll force everyone to pay a fee to be simply within this physical environment. And, therefore, it is important that there be private leadership, that there be solid leadership in the initiative, and a solid leadership that must be clearly entrepreneurial. Because, then, the work is done, thick, has it together, which is, therefore, to review this initiative, to see that all the requirements, the statutes, the strategic plan are fulfilled..., that is to say, there is a whole series of aspects to be incorporated. And we here asked for more support for the assembly, more support for the assembly. Why? So because they're going to have a lot of work, because in the end, this is a regulatory framework for assembly. And we said: « Home, so in three years we have 3_million_i_mig euros to facilitate this task that must be done together, that they do not do before, that it is new and that is fine, because in the end it will certainly improve the environment and competitiveness. But we haven't been able to wake up. The government has agreed, also in this case with Ciutadans, a generic writing, that we already know how the generalisms end. Obviously, when a government makes assumptions, that will be... so, I don't know what priority, the one hundred and fifty-three, probably, and, therefore, these resources will not be incorporated. And again at the gatherings, with their resources, which are scarce and insufficient and which, moreover, have suffered a great deal during the pandemic, so it will cost them a great deal to pull this forward. And I'm surprised, huh? , that some agreements, some considerations, have been agreed with Ciutadans. Because, besides, the city that I would like is that silence was positive, and therefore that everything is believed even though the assembly did not intervene, right? Well, that's one way to see things. We defend the gatherings, we defend the municipal competitions, and when the gatherings are forced to do things, they are also economically rewarded. And this is something that doesn't make the law, and we, in this sense, are disgusted. Another obligation of the assembly is that it creates a register of the Generality in which every time that an APEU is created a document must be sent, every time that there is a change must be sent, and we also create a obligation... we also don't understand why. The law said that because the register was the one that started the obligation to pay this quota. So, man, I'd just miss it, if there's an order... that generates mandatoryity is the order. That's changed. It was quite an inverse thing. Probably because the departments are not aware that who is the Parliament's legislator, not the departments, but well, this is a reflection that we have done before. In any case, we haven't been able to make a deal with this. We do not see this register by any means, it obliges us... The department said: "No, yes, because we will have data to help us to make economic policy, trade policy. So good that it is, because the last few years don't leave you a very important credit. And now, entering a little bit of this department, I would also like to say that it is true that we have worked from the principle willingly, with the will to improve the law; that we have gone to all the meetings to which we are summoned from the government. And I want to give the thanks here, so, to the director, the Muntsa Vilalta, the Chim Ferrer, who have been clean to try to solve our problems and who we can come to terms with. In fact, we have presented fourteen joint papers with the Government, that is, that there was this will, that is, this will. After that we presented twenty-seven first-hand items, of which twelve have not been accepted, some others have not, which are those that remain alive. Actually, there's seventy-four live specimens left, huh? , that is to say..., the law has improved, but there are seventy-four living items, which means that there are some things, quite, in which we have not agreed – not only with the Socialist Group, but with some others. Now, is the law a little better? Yeah. The law has improved thanks to the work of the opposition, to this value of the opposition, to this intense work of the opposition in a good time, to the counter-rolling. But I don't know if it's the law we'd want. Probably not, because we've enjoyed having a little more time to value things. When we talk, for example, about the premises... will they be able to incorporate premises into the sentient buildings, yes or no? Why not first plants? There are debates that have remained to be done, and it is a shame that we could not do them for time, because we have to run too much, when we carry from the year 2012 with this theme on the table. I, therefore, know hard. Then the law also incorporates the PAEs, right? The economic activity polygons, we didn't get in here very often, huh? , to the law, because we haven't had time. Nor in the modifications that this law imposes on the Law of Commerce, which – also – a bad legislative practice, seems to me. But, anyway, we've done the job that we think close to our responsibility, which is to improve the law, is to improve the text. We didn't make it at all. We think it's less municipalist than we'd like. But well, we've done everything we can at this time of year. And, lastly, thank the work of the rapporteur, Elsa Artadi, and all the speakers, who always learn a lot – you know, I don't learn a lot from you –; from my group, from the people of the PSC who helped me, from mayors and governors, who have done many times and found us many times, and, lastly, from the Year Houses, who always accompany us with this rigour and seriousness and helps us to keep the text more rigorous and better than what entered this Parliament. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.47.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, one point: the truth is that if we ask the names of the deputies, of the speakers, who would participate in the approval of this law, the law would say Artadi, Pachamé, Orobitg and Rodriguez. Because the certain thing about this law and the previous law is that the government is approving them with the support of Citizens and the People's Party. And I know you've come to the council a little while ago, but I think that this should really give you some thought: what's going on with these laws, which we're building to think about how we want to intervene in the economic sectors, which only get the support of Ciutadans and the People's Party? I don't know, I'd think about it. Both Juntes' companies for Catalonia and especially Esquerra Republicana's companies: let's think about why. Because we, who we have presented to the totality of this law..., I think we were the group that we most discussed later on in this and in the Law of Economic Facilitation. In spite of the time, despite the lack of Members to carry two questions at the same time, we have never given up our ability to legislate, with the relevant limitations. But the truth is, you've only been able to close agreements with Citizens and the People's Party. And I think that, more than ordinary law, what you're doing is law in a very concrete sense. And I would think about it. Then you said one thing: "People flee the city centres. I have not seen anyone flee from the center of the city and cry out: "There has been no public-private collaboration, we must flee from here! No, no, People are evicted from the city centres. And who are the dynamics that lead people to be expelled from the city centers? I believe that, if we go over these two laws, the conclusion that we would come to – and from here the supports that they have – is that they reinforce them, that they strengthen the dynamics that drive people from the center of the city. Let's say, at the presentation of our task to the totality, some elements that we will recover today, because reading it I think that the pose has not substantially altered the objectives of this law. What are you doing, this one? Privatizes the management of public space. Privatize the management of the public space of our cities. How do you do it? Tell people who have economic activities at the center of the city or at any bar where they want to make an economic promotion area: "The governance model that drives this law is a governance model based on census democracy. Those who are the owners of a business can lead economic, urban and service life in their district. And, therefore, what we do is externalize..., so that in the daytime, public-private collaboration is to take the public services of all life and tell them, to whom you have private negotiations from the city, that you have the ability to influence and co-manage them with the Public Administration. He owns a business. Who owns a habitat or resides in a habitat, no; only who has a life on the city. And in which sectors can you intervene? So in cleanness, in urban planning, in promoting better mobility – that we all know in which direction they will go – in promoting civic security policies, etc. And we believe that, obviously, it is a law that does not arise from the backs of the cities before the crises and contradictions that we see across all the great European cities, it is not a law that arises from this debate. It is a law that arises to reinforce all those factors that are driving the crisis into the models of our cities: tourism, the outpouring of touristic habitats, the desertion of the centers of our cities, gentrification. All those processes which are bringing the great European cities into crisis, and not just our country in an exceptional way, are those which are reinforced by this type of legislation. Like the other time, I start with the only two good things that we find in the law, more than we obviously value your contributions, but politically we consider that there are two good things. The first is that it brings a legal _frame to that which already makes many joints. In many joint ventures, the village centre is a trading centre and there is a determined political intervention that until now only responds to the initiative of the joint ventures and to the relationship with the associations of shops, and now, therefore, has a legal fit a little more ambition, which allows the associations of shops not to say that there are free riders, that they are traders who take advantage of the best that they push because afterward they do not participate economically. And then a dynamic second that we share. And it's that this is planned from a sense, curiously, of strengthening small business, that it's in the same sense that small business strengthening campaigns are taking place during the Covid crisis and that citizens are encouraged to go into small business and not to buy online through multinationals, and that we think it's obviously a common sense campaign. What happens is that when one is used only to defending external economic agents – Uber, Cabify – it seems to him that all forms part of a conspiracy. In fact, in the midst of this crisis, defending small trade and proximity trade is common sense and I believe that for a large part of this country's citizenship. But it allows us to generate, this law, urban dynamics because commercial areas can compete with commercial surfaces in purchasing ease, in purchasing experience, etc. And we believe that they are dynamic that can become positive and that in some cities, including some of the cities, they have unlocked some very enquired debates. For example, on the fact that the streets of the village centre are still for easy, let's say, this conformation of commercial surfaces in the free area. But then he does things that, obviously, we think strengthen negative dynamics. The first, which we have already identified: privatizes the management of public space and municipal public services in this thing that continues to come as positive. That I suspect that there is some citizen who when I hear the word "public-private collaboration" does not mistrust you; but well, if for you it is a positive attribute, then... it is your responsibility. But the public-private management of private economic agents from the cities, which are set up in a private entity and which will manage in a private way what until now were municipal competitions. And we already said at the time: it is that this experience has been imported from Canada and the United States, that they have a city model that is not what we have in Catalonia. The centres of European cities are not commercial centres. They are centres that continue to have a plurality of uses: they are commercial centres, they are tourist centres, but they are also residential centres and spaces where there must be municipal public equipment, etc. They are not cities in North America, where the center is a financial and commercial center and the outskirts of the city is residential. This does not happen in European cities. And if we look at the laws that have imported IDBs into Europe, we will see that neither Germany has been built that way, nor the rest of the European countries have been built that way. The Anglo-Saxon model has not been imported into Europe, where, for example, only commercial owners can participate in public service management. That doesn't happen in Europe. And we think it's obvious that a governance model is being built here that excludes the main actors in the city, who are the veins, from the governance of the city. And it's obvious to us. According to what we believe will be obvious: this will reinforce urban inequalities. It is clear that when it is an APEU to the Passeig de Gracia, there will be more capital to invest in the Passeig de Gracia than Bon Pastor – it is obvious – and that this will reinforce urban inequalities. And until now what we had were democratic institutions that were dedicated, precisely, to trying to correct urban inequalities. Or do you think the APEU at the Passeig de Gràcia won't work well? But..., and with the promotion of depressed urban areas – which is precisely what these instruments were focused on – which are not in the Passeig de Gracia? Which promotional tools can this law be used? Captain. And we think it's an obvious element. Then..., the APEU works; come on, let's lay it down. First consequence: all small trades to pay quota from the day u. There's no trade crisis here, which I see. Here at the small trade you have to spare cash flow, after the months of closure they have lived, because no one puts this on the table. I think it's the first time I don't feel any of Ciutadans and the People's Party complain that the merchants in this country have to pay. Clearly, what it's like to manage it privately in front of his trade, so he's fine. Well, it doesn't even look like a scrap. And then I think, obviously, we can strengthen gentrification processes in this city, in this city and in the rest of Catalonia. Because if the urban promotion of the town centers remains in the hands of the commercial fabric, which is only the major economic actor of many small and medium-sized cities in this country, what we will see is the urban promotion of the town center of this city. And we'll continue to see the velocities ejected. Don't run away, run away. And they're evicting economic tendencies from the outside. And until now who had to correct this were the democratic institutions, which is why we choose them democratically. And if you are not able to win an election in Barcelona, I think it is not right to try to influence it through commercial associations, that everyone knows that in many areas of Catalonia they are nothing more than their political environment to the different cities. And the third question we believe is obvious: it will strengthen lobbying processes in cities. They will form groups that take back their own taxes for their own interests, and to which they will devote is to lobbying. In two directions: to demand major competitions and to demand to pay less taxes for the rest of the city. That's what I'm already giving it to you. And what is being created is a duality of legitimacy that will run counter to democratic city planning. We can give it to each other, too. So, are there alternatives to this kind of model? I think it's obvious that it is. And I think it's obvious that this country already knows alternatives. For example, in this country, the Barrel Law, the most important urban promotion law of the history of this country, which was devoted to the best of the popular barrels of this country, was supposed to be. This is to make urban promotion, and run democratically and driven from public administrations. That's urban promotion. Because the majority of popular barrels in this country do not have a commercial problem; they have a problem of urban degradation and gentrification, the expulsion of veins and the abandonment of popular barrels. And that's not a commercial promotion solution. This is done with public intervention and public services. And it's the one that doesn't raise this law, and it's obvious. Not a week ago, our parliamentary group presented the proposal for a new barrel law for the next parliamentary term. It is obvious that urban intervention: in better condition in many barrels, in energy transition housing in many cities of our country, in energy efficiency, in winging, in better condition of the surrounding city... All this does not raise, this law. What this law says is: "Well, the shops of the Passage of Grace will already improve the Passage of Grace." They were giving it to me. But perhaps the Passage of Grace is not the urban problem of Catalonia. And the second question: including in this model there were alternatives, and there are none, and they exist. Germany has models of IDBs – which are not just called IDBs – that establish a governance model that we can work on, where all owners or all people who have rights to use, whether from a commercial location or from a habitat, have right to participate, pay part of the taxes so that they are finalists and there is what we know as "participated assumptions, bar structures that allow democratic management of urban planning, services, and demand of public administrations all that they consider not to work in their barrels. Neither does he, his law, because his law deals with an excluded model of governance for which he has an economic activity, as if it were an ashtray democracy. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And, therefore, it also ignores the vein tissue of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.49.0	Congressman, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.50.0	For all this, we will vote against this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.51.0	Thank you. The next speaker, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, is Mr Santi Rodríguez. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I understand that the People's Party subgroup has reserved items and the CUP does not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.52.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members, Members, we did not have in mind that, effectively, the CUP, without considerations, did not have this turn, but that the tea afterwards. Well, the main object of this law is to create the areas of economic promotion, the APEUs, an acronym like this, a little strange and innovative, because, as they still do not exist, so it is not known. The main utility is to facilitate the organization of private entities, but with public materials, to promote commercial urban environments. And that's an objective that's reasonable and that we share. That's the path. This is the way: to help urban trade, to help urban economic activities; not to bother shopping centers, but to raise urban trade. And at this point I want to make clear our support for the commercial centres and the small trade that is in the commercial centres, which, with the motivation of the pandemic, have been made worse, with unjustified discrimination, from the point of view of health, in relation to urban trade. And this very week we had here in Parliament a delegation of small traders from the malls explaining their situation. And, surely, if there was no such distinction in the deal between the small trade in shopping centres and urban centres, the agglomerations that are seen during the bridge of the Immaculate – which some of us used to work on the projects of the Facilitative Law and the APEUs –..., therefore, the agglomerations certainly would not have been the same. That said, in this law we questioned some aspects, such as, for example, the fact of transferring public responsibilities to the private sphere, and that we do not share. This law was not to be served because the privates are fessin' because of public responsibilities, such as lightning, cleanness, security, etc., isn't it? In any case, the best in relation to the basic elements offered by the Administration did have to go in charge of them, but not replace them. And I think that most groups have shared this vision perfectly, and the final text makes all these aspects clear, so that the APPUs – and with the functions it is very clear – do not have to assume the competences that are of the joints. Nor has he just convinced us, of the initial text, the obligation to belong to a club by decision of less than 20_per_cent of the collection. That's what we meant in a strong way, isn't it? And this aspect has improved, and now as a minimum the text guarantees that there must at least be a minimum of 25_percent of the votes in favour so that it can constitute. Surely... or so, it's a substantial modification. I don't know if it's enough or not; but in any case, it's a substantial improvement. Now, what we have not just convinced ourselves – and so we have materialized it with papers, and so it is on the papers still pending – is that the creation of an APEU is on the initiative of the same Administration. We don't share that. Or by decision of a business association that is between the area, that is five years old, without, as a minimum, having the collection of 25_percent of the owners or the owners of the establishments in the area. We like the new system of votes, weighted according to the areas of the establishments, and which, moreover, is equal and fair to that of the quotas that they are then obliged to pay. But on the other hand, you haven't just convinced us that you have to spin the same entity. And here I think there are two motius, basically. We don't like it because, as much as quotas are mandatory and if they aren't paid, then – and this is the other problem – the joint can use the constraint path, it doesn't seem to us that the private character entity that manages the collection of scraps is worth it. First question. And the second question is: effectively, if you have to resort to the constraint path, it will make it difficult for the initial waste to have been turned by a private entity and not by the same Administration, won't it? Therefore, this is a theme that we also maintain, because we are not convinced of the wording. Nor do we like that, in some ways, the subject of economic activity has been ventilated in a secondary way in this same law, and in a very similar way to that of the APEUs. I think, at the very least, it was worth expressing the will to say: "Listen, we will make a specific law for the polygons of economic activities. It didn't cost anything. For the time being, we already have them more or less regular, more or less packed, and they just define themselves with a law. They didn't want this either. If you'll excuse me, you're going to be a pain in the ass, aren't you? That just what we say makes a point with the Economic Facilitation Bill, and that I was critical of, and said, "Listen to me, I repeat eleven times that you will only have to carry the data once, so we do not complete it in this law. Why? So let's just make sure that we don't just do the assembly procedures, but then we take photos of all the documents to take them to the General Directorate of Commerce and make the register of them. We could get away with this, couldn't we? We could get rid of it, take note of what we said with the previous law – which we have said eleven times – and, in this way, therefore, get rid of the city and also to the same administrations. Therefore – Mr. Ferro has misanticipated, but well, that the reality does not spread a good headline to him – we will not support this law. We will not vote against it – we will not vote against it – but the doubts that generate us fans that, as a minimum, we remain cautious at the time of giving support to this law. Therefore, like many, this name will be "Artadi, Orobtig, Pachamé, but Rodriguez will not carry it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.53.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. Mr Vidal Aragonese has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.54.0	At this point, much has been said about the centres of the city, and no one has mentioned that we have a call from the metro workers who do not want to bear that there is a municipal company, depending on the Barcelona City Council, which wants to co-ordinate its condition of temporary workers, of temporary workers, of temporary workers. And, therefore, beyond the justification of EBP, obviously, we..., all the support for these Barcelona metro workers who are defending their rights and defending our public services. Look, explain why we didn't take part – it's the first law that this MP doesn't take part in its proceedings. We did not take part in a very simple matter: on October 29, when the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge this law was beginning to agree on what serious the speakers and the form, therefore, there was an action that is completely irregular: we voted on the way in which they would give these appearances and then decided to leave no effect there with another vote. Do not change the order of the day, which is perfectly legal, before, at first, but, if you have already voted, leave it without effect. And, therefore, we do not want to participate in this. That's how we put it. And, look, this has even caused us to lose an appearance like that of a person of reference, as in our case, Geographer David Harvey, what he sees saying, when he speaks of institutions similar to the APEUs, is: "They are building cities because the people are speculating and not because the people are viscous. And that's a good synthesis. Therefore, I do not participate in the discussion of the APEUs, and I did ask the President of Parliament to be able to make a comment. It will only be two and a half minutes, because I will not continue as a member of the Parliament of Catalonia in the next parliamentary term, and I thought that it was necessary to be able to make this ate. In the first place, thanksgiving – it will be difficult to remember..., and I will surely leave someone – to the workers and the workers in Parliament and Parliament. So it was as I started the first intervention here, in this faristol, saying: « Workers in Parliament, Workers in Parliament. I don't mean anyone, but everyone, because they know and they know – who they are here, who they are, who they are, who they are outside, who they are – who I am referring to. The second thanks and reminders – above all reminders –: why are some of us and have been deputies? Because we have hostages and exiles. When a company has to go to exile, we come. And so, this reminder, why some of us came. Not all of them, some of them. The one who speaks to them came, among other things, fundamentally for this. Also all the recognition for my company here in Parliament. How happy the four of us will be. There were four, there were seven, because there were four deputies and the three people in the parliamentary technical office. And, beyond the political frustration of these three years, we've been happy, we've been happy. Because when we fight happy, and we fought everything we could, and so we want to move it. After that, deputies and deputies, I can't be hypocritical, I hear. I haven't been comfortable here, and I'll explain why. What you represent politically – and hope that it will end, because I don't want to lose respect in any case – are, therefore, those institutions that we want to end with them: autonomy, patriarchy, capitalism. And, therefore, understand why I wasn't comfortable. But beyond the class hatred that some people have, we also have the esteem and love to build a society that is absolutely disillusioned with any kind of oppression for all of us here. And so that you have guaranteed food, sanitation, teaching, shelter, and we can dedicate ourselves to things as necessary as culture, sex, love, sport. We only want this, technical development already allows it. Also a reminder for the CUP's militancy. I came in here as a congressman, and I wasn't a CUP activist or an organization activist on the independence left. And I must thank them because it is a great treasure for anti-capitalism in southern Europe. And his day to day is what builds us up as an organization. Neither electoral results nor acronyms; day by day, working politically. I, lastly – and now I would say that..., ending – I have all the recognition for the CUP's militancy. To say that..., all apologies; for now, we have not completed our political objectives. We will make criticism and self-criticism, but obviously we will never stop fighting. And lastly, I came back from where I came out: from the humblest people, surely, from this country, to my city, Cornellà de Llobregat, we will return to the military at the daily base of the barrel, of the barrels. And I'll do what I did before, defend the rights of the working class with toga. Some and some of us had agreed before they did that, as at least in justice. And for the rest of life – so good it can be forty-two more years, here I leave it, I don't need to live much longer – so continue to struggle for socialism, for independence, from a perspective of building Catalan countries and with feminist practices. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Jordi Orobig's deputy. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Members, Members... Well, in this case, our participation will be of the shortest, the shortest Parliament, and it is probably because of the fact that, logically, we have not been the rapporteurs of this legislative initiative nor, therefore, do we have any reservations. This, however, does not mean that we have a smaller paper, and in this way I want to claim it. In this case, we have not been a colleague of Mrs Artadi, who was obviously the head of this project in the representation of a department that is managed from its political formation, but we wanted to make our contributions. And I think they have been enriching, from the point of view of the intervention in the text, in defense of those criteria that we believe are desirable or that we defend, if not, from the public eye, right? I understand the reticences that some of the left-wing groups represented in this chamber may have with this legislative initiative, as expressed by the same spokesman, Mr. Ferro, or as expressed by the previous Member, Mr. Vidal Aragonese, for whom I express my respect and admiration. I think this Parliament is losing a great deal of action. His speech and his dialectics in all the plenarys so they believe it, and I want to convey it, as I said before, my admiration and my respect, and to acknowledge that he has enriched the many debates we have had in this chamber. I insist, the fact of the same dynamic, of how this bill has been processed, therefore, has entailed a rush in terms, an emergency processing, which has robbed us of the possibility of having a profound debate, precisely, probably, with these two people that I have thought about, more than anyone else. But it's also true that we've worked intensively with the rest of the doorman to make some changes in the rule that we thought they were desirable, right? And I want to give thanks, from this point of view, both to the same rapporteur, Mrs Artadi, as to Mr Pachamé and Mrs Alicia Romero, from the discrepancy, but from the deep respect and admiration, because many times we come together and we are water and oil, but that doesn't mean that you don't recognize their merits and abilities. And in the same way, in this case, therefore, Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the People's Party. Our vocation in this context has been to focus on different areas that we felt it was important to delimit or introduce changes to them. And one of them is the financing of these USA. Initially, as has been said, there is this figure of the public services of non-taxable public character, but we, firmly, from our parliamentary group both in the Congress and in the Senate, are working on a modification of the Law of Local Hisends that makes it precisely that there is a tax figure that can take this regulation and we do not have to go to life, as we said before, as was intended for the Romero spokesman, therefore, to modify fiscal orders, with everything that it entails. And, therefore, we have made this change, both in Article 3 and in the explanatory statement. Also..., reinforce the role of the assemblies, which has been an area of discrepancy between different political formations, and formations both left and right, which have coincided in wanting that the assemblies do not have the ability to promote these APEUs. For us, we do not have to close the doors to the possibilities of collaboration or promotion of the assemblies. We have made ourselves very strong in the possibility that the assemblies may have the ability, when I understand how to do it, to promote these APPEATS. And what they do, in this case, with a condition that we have arrived with the Ciutadans Group, not with our taste, but..., that in this case, it required that there be as a minimum a business association of the field that I endorsed in a meaningful way, because you exist. And strengthening this realm of municipalism for us was important, so, man, to shield the public powers, precisely. Because we understand that we can't legislate on the agenda at the meetings, but we need its complicity, and that therefore no process of creating an APEU will be able to re-enact while the local administration opposes it. And, therefore, it was important to endorse and confirm these powers and capabilities not only from the legislative sphere, but also from control. I also believe that we have made an important advance with the quorums both for the initiative and for approval. I think this was a demand from opposition groups, and I think it was a well-founded demand. It could not be that with such minority minorities it is possible to create obligations for third parties as it was intended, also, to enter, with the same public administrations, that they could see the obligation to participate with economic contributions for the same municipal equipment inserted between the APEUs, another of the letters that we have modified, therefore, those entities and associations that were devolved to it. For us, therefore, within the particular needs and shortcomings of this process..., it is a good bill of law, and we hope that it will be used to promote this public-private collaboration initiative on a once-in-a-lifetime basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elsa Artadi has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.58.0	Good morning again. Well, we believe – and we have no doubt, from Juntes to Catalonia – that tomorrow, when this law comes, it will be a very long time for the commercial fabric. The commercial fabric of proximity, Mr. Ferro, the one that gives life to the streets, the one that generates places of work, the one that makes community, the one that makes us feel safer. This is what defends this law, the commercial fabric of proximity. And in a year that's been so hard, and when she still expects tough months to come, it's good news. It won't solve everything – and that's what I agree with Mrs Romero – but it's good news. Because, of course, we did, but we did because there wasn't a legal armored way to make the issue of mandatory contributions good. And so have we, Mrs. Romero, because your party applied 155 and we spent a lot of months getting away with it. We're still fair, at least, on this subject. We have a trade-like model that stands out for its associationism, which stands out for the involvement of civil society not only to improve what is the same activity, but also the bar and the city where it is served. But now it's not enough, it's not enough for the challenge we have: electronic commerce, a competition with advantage – with large surfaces –, a pressure of great brands. And that will not be solved only by making proclamations of where you must go to buy and where you must not go to buy, Mr. Iron. And I don't go in here anymore if this company is good, if not, if it generates jobs or not, but if I go into an attitude of cowardice on the part of some people with important political interests, who, instead of doing politics, are dedicated to shouting at boycotts, that it is a recognition of the inability to do politics and the inability to bring real solutions that wander beyond a day holder, that brings nothing else. Certainly, we had deures. Now the pandemic's gone. And, therefore, what was a necessary law is a very urgent law. And so, among many of us, and despite the difficulties that have brought us all, we have decided to do this urgently. And it's a law of consensus. It's a law of political consensus, it's a law of consensus in the sector. The same Member of Parliament Romero – who you said was the outburst of great agreements – passed her intervention, legitimately and with all intent, explaining all the contributions I would say to the Socialist Party that are integrated into the text. And I hope that tomorrow there will be a great deal of support with 119 votes in favour of this law, because, if not, it would be inexplicable to defend the law and then not be there. Two elements that seem to us to be important to us from this law: the one that you say is the import of our lobbyists in close collaboration between traders and the local administration, which many places have been left behind. And another very logical element: that the solutions arrive from below, from whom you have experience, from whom you have knowledge, from whom you gain life; that it is from below, therefore, that these solutions come. It is what we understand to be the best of collaboration or cooperation, or, as we say, public-private: the fact of working together, of trusting each other, of posing..., to work together for the city, for a project that is collective, and not opposing and being all day talking about good and bad. Also put in value the diversity, not only between the barrels, but also between the different municipalities and the whole territory of Catalonia. And to do that, it is essential that big chains and big brands contribute to it. Because right now in the axes, right now in the business associations, it ends up contributing... which is why it's harder, for the small business, for the family business, that they're the only ones who are providing it for measures with the benefit of the joint, and that makes it very difficult. And, therefore, this law exactly what it does is to protect this small proximity trade, this family proximity trade, this proximity trade that in many cases has gone from generation to generation, because they are not currently competing in equal conditions. Before Congresswoman Romero referred to the director Ballarín, with whom I also worked very hard the last few months. And I'm worried – I'm not surprised, but I'm worried – about the speech that Mr. Ferro makes. And I hope that there is a real change in Barcelona, and that if Mrs. Ballarín is so interested, she will have to go before who clearly she is, that she is Mrs. Colau, who bets more to control than to trust, who bets more to pose through than not to dialogue and work together, who bets more to punish than not to promote and economic activity, generate wealth and generate jobs. Therefore, let us hope that, at the very least in this matter, and accompanied by the other political forces that we support this law... that, at the very least in this, we can impose ourselves on the Barcelona Assembly, and we can change this trend. We, from Junts to Catalunya, will continue to defend trade, this land of traders that is Catalonia. I, Deputy Vidal Aragonese, until very soon. I hope that we will continue to find each other and that we will continue to discuss each other, always from the respect and everything that we have learned, at least from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. This debate is over, and, like the rest, they know that we will vote with the rest of the points. So now we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.60.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Bills for equal treatment and non-discrimination]] [[200-00006/12]] And we do so with the seven-point order of the day, which is the debate of the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Families on the Bill for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, and as the Government has requested to intervene, the first word is the Councillor for Work, Social Affairs and Families, Mr. Chakir El Homrani. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.61.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. We're here after a long way. Today, finally, we are debating the Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Now it's up to them to position themselves as parliamentary groups. Tomorrow, they'll vote. So I'm not going to be too adventurous, but I'm not going to have them: I'm, I'm happy. The Government of the Generality is proud that this bill of law, therefore, in the case of the Government, pulls forward. Proud, too, to have pulled a project that started the friend and advised Dolors Bassa. I want to sincerely thank them for the effort they have made these months, not just as a government advisor, but especially as a citizen. It is obvious that in our society there has been a process of change that has entailed a wide diversity of personal realities – in areas as in convictions –: sexual orientation, origins..., many, many diversity. I think it is very necessary for us to remember and recognize that, like society, we have experienced a process of evolution. I think we need to look at this with perspective and value the ability we have had, like society, to become aware of our diversity, to recognize it in a positive way. They are structural changes that we also have to recognise institutionally. This is a necessary law, mandatory law, and now more than ever. It is, because we're a different society. Probably a lot more different than at any time in our history. And diverse in many senses: origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, abilities, age, creces, interests, tastes. But above all it is necessary because, fortunately, we will continue to be a different society in the future. Diversity is not a passing phenomenon, it is a structural characteristic of Catalan society and it will define us as far as the proper generations are concerned. We need this law because, despite everything, there are still thousands of people who, simply because they belong to a minority community, have suffered humiliations, have seen their development opportunities undermined. And that, Members and Members, is an unacceptable violation of people's fundamental rights. And lastly, we need this law because discrimination and the lack of equality of opportunity have an individual effect on the person who suffers it, but they also have an effect on the most important good we have as a society: social cohesion. We cannot aspire to build a cohesive society while a good part of its citizens and citizens cannot express themselves in freedom, realize that they are treated as citizens or second-hand citizens, do not feel the full employment of institutions at the time of defending their rights. We want this to be an instrument for us to be able to clearly identify the society we are talking about when we are talking about discrimination. The fifth article of the Law incorporates a set of definitions: anti-Semitism, aporofobia, capacitism, bifobia, edatism, feminicides, LGTBIphobia, racism, anti-Egyptisms, transphobia. They all pose to the discovery clearly who are these discriminations that we face and that we will never accept. We want this law, obviously, to protect the victims. But above all to protect, which is essential, we also want to repair the evil they have experienced, beyond economic compensation. Measures such as mediation to resolve conflicts, or training and work, as reparations for the victim, are incorporated. We want this law because the victims have clear mechanisms for conveying their complaints and because they can denounce all kinds of discrimination; also the most daily ones that escape to the criminal field. It is essential to combat normalised discrimination. We want this law to involve everyone in the fight against discrimination. Obviously, public administrations, and in a very particular way, local administration. Local administrations may participate in the implementation of this law, requiring the delegation of sanctioning authority and the ability to deploy preventive and detection measures, but also the private sector and entities of our country, which are extensively involved in the defence of equality. The fight against discrimination is one of our main reptes collectius, and we need everyone to do theirs. We want the law to convince you collectively of the need to implement positive action measures. They're part of it. The law lays down these actions as an obligation. If only we are limited to ensuring the equal treatment of those who suffer from radically unequal positions, what we do is to eternalize the lack of equity. We also want it to have a pedagogical effect. It's obvious that the laws don't fix everything, but they help us deliver a message, a message to society. And, yes, it is a law that has been expected, but I will tell you that if it has been in the interest of reaching a high level of consensus, well; I think it is the way to work: complicitness between everyone and everyone. Despite the long years of processing, it is important to put into value the high degree of consensus with which this law is expected to be adopted – we will see it tomorrow evening –: a large majority of politicians, the majority with which the law will be approved. And the 459 papers presented for all the camra groups show that it is a country law, that a significant part, a large part of the parliamentary arch assumes that the fight for equality and against discrimination is one of the main challenges facing our societies. And we want a large political majority, but we also want a large social majority. This is a law that, beyond the walls of Parliament, counts on the support of the wider sectors of our society. Catalonia is a country that is largely compromised – and not only politically, but also socially – in the fight against discrimination. Besides, we want this consensus to be maintained in its implementation as well. This is why, although it will be implemented by an agency affiliated to the Government, the law provides for coordination and cooperation mechanisms with the Greuges Syndicate, with the Civil and Political Rights Office and the civil society represented by sectoral entities, to which it will periodically take account of the advances of the law. It will also count on an independent committee for the follow-up of sanctions and a parliamentary committee. And it will take into account the advice of people who are experts in the different areas of the law. But, from the passing of the law, we still have a lot of homework to do. The first, a key element: regulatory development, which we will ensure is as quickly as possible and with the maximum participation of the sectors involved. He spread the law. This law will only be effective if we can get people's heads to know it and make it theirs; the rest of the administrations and, in particular, the local administration are involved in its implementation. It is necessary to continue to do the task of teaching so that everyone assumes the various character of our society; everyone knows who their rights are; everyone knows how to defend himself before the violation of the rights; the joint society, without exception, takes the fight for equality as one of the fundamental challenges. I've explained to them that from the government we believe that this law is necessary, for what we want it to serve, with what consensus has been worked and the way we have to go. I ended up thanking the work of who made this pioneering and cross-cutting law possible: to all those people who, individually, formed part of the participatory process; to the entities; to the national councils that have been involved, from the Youth Council, the National Council LGTBI, the Council of Dones..., all the Council of the Great Gent, and have remained motor and lever. Thanks to your work, to your contributions that we were able to incorporate into the bill and thus enrich it. I also thank them, Members of Parliament, all the girls willing to improve the text, as well as the work done to get the law to be a reality. I think I'm close to doing this message with the counselor: I think it's good news. I am glad that my last intervention in this House, in this legislature, is about this law. I think it's the best way, a good news like the counselor of Work, Social Afers and Families. But I also think it's good news for the lesbian pair that they're trusting to beat themselves up in the middle of the street; it's good news for the child of only two years who they insult, already by their origin, by their beliefs, at the sporting activity of the weekend head. It is good news for anyone who is part of the diversity of this country, for their name, for their origins, for their sexual orientation, for their gender identity – it is good news. And I think that's what he recognizes most about the work of this House and this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.62.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the return of Congresswoman Najat Driuech, who was appointed as rapporteur of this law. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.63.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. First of all, I would like to greet from here, from this Faristol, the different people who are representing the different entities and national councils that are following us; they are following this debate from a room that has enabled Parliament here today. And I would also like to greet from here those people, who are many, who have told us that you will follow this debate by mediating the different channels of which Parliament has at its disposal. Well, this first intervention I do as the rapporteur of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act; a law that already sees from the previous legislature, as the Councillor has quite rightly said, but that Article 155 did not make its approval possible. That's why I'd like to start today my speech the same way I did 2019 on the whole debate, thanking Councilman Chakir El Homrani who returned the bill to Parliament. A law that promoted Constellera Dolors Bassa and in the processing of which preceded me as the rapporteur of Montse Palau. Also, let me thank my parliamentary group for having placed in me the confidence to bring such an important law; a law so important to the country but, at the same time, it was my first law and, moreover, it was special to bring it to me as rapporteur. Throughout this process, I've had to learn many things. The first, learn how to manage frustrations and patiences of not being able to get to the right with this law. But I am also not after positive things, which have been constructive and have helped to build collectively what we are debating today. That is why I want to thank my fellow Members who have accompanied me in this process, who have made a great effort and each one of them. For the Gruppo de Ciutadans, the deputy Blanca Navarro, for the Socialists and Units Group for Avançar, the deputy Marta Moreta, for the Gruppo d'En Comú Pomera, the compañera Susanna Segovia, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, the Nazitalia Sánchez ; for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the PP, the former deputy Esperanza García, who also wanted to give thanks from here; and recently, in the later sessions, was incorporated the compañero Manu Reyes, who also contributed to it. And lastly, I also want to thank the company of Junts for Catalonia, the Saloua Laouaji El Gharbi, a company of struggle for human rights and that we come from many years of struggle in other spaces, and that we have also had the honor of coinciding to build and form part of this construction of this law. All of you have brought, and many, to this law. Thank you all for making this way to here we made it together, because it wasn't a easy way. We had to agree, at a time we remember, a text resulting from 559 items– 559 items – and a bill of law; but the effort was worth it, because the citizenry deserved it. And the result is that today we approve of a pioneer law: the equal treatment and non-discrimination law, which has unfortunately gone away many times, or has cheated, or we would say that it has cheated too much on arriving. The articulated text of the proposed law on equal treatment and non-discrimination consisted of a preamble, thirty-six articles, three additional provisions, a single derogation provision and a final provision. As you know, the law's object is extremely complex, as the counselor has said: racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, Arabophobia, Islamophobia, Christianophobia, Judaism, LGTBIphobia or misogyny, I hate people without speech or aporophobia; for socioeconomic reasons, of national or ethnic origin, of language, religious convictions or beliefs, opinion, intellectual or physical disability, administrative situation, condition of deprivation of liberty, age, profession, identity, genera, physical appearance, skin colour, genetic characteristics, malalty, serological status, physical or clothing appearance, or any other condition, circumstance or manifestation of human condition. And precisely for all this is a complex law. I also want to thank – and I believe I am doing so on behalf of all the people – the work of the entities and the experts who have participated in this law making contributions and observations that have greatly enriched the initial text and have served as a guide for making a much richer and more complete text. A special thanks, too, to the workers of the house who made it possible: to the late Mercè Arderiu, to the linguistic technique Núria Lucena and to the manager Carme Alonso. Thank you all three for your patience, and also a recognition of your professionalism. For another band, I think it would be unfair on my part not to recognize the unconditional support of the director general of Igualtat, Mireia Mata Solsona, as well as the current secretary general, Oriol Amorós, and the institutional relations of all the councils, and especially that of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, the Judit Calveras. The cooperative work of all these people has allowed us today to have in hand the text of a law that has the objective of guaranteeing the rights of all people, regardless of their condition. A law, as I said, pioneer, of which we must all feel very proud and proud. It's not the first time this room has been on the road to drafting laws in favor of diverse rights and we're not becoming referents, and today, too, I'm not sure, convinced that we're going to pass a law that's going to be a referent. And all the people that we've made possible we can proudly say that we were a tool for the creation of this law. Catalonia, without any doubt, will be a pioneer in having a cross-cutting law to protect its citizenship from all types of discrimination; having an organ attached to the Government to design and deploy policies of prevention, training, awareness, which so much lacks us towards the matter of non-discrimination, and sanctions, reparation of victims, as the Councillor has also explained. And it will share these skills with all the administrations or locals that demand it. Because this law, companies and companies, which we will approve in Parliament tomorrow, is a country law, it is a law for all citizens. Nothing more to say. Thank you for having had yours, let's say, I support the length of the work and also apologize for my insistence, because I have been a very insistent rapporteur on the subject, because, as you know, it is a subject that I take very personally. Thank you all, and I think we'll make history with this law. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.64.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To defend the reserved items, has the word, in first place and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs. Blanca Victoria Navarro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.65.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, councillor, deputies. I would like to begin by thanking the entities and experts who have appeared in the presentation of this law, who have transmitted to us their situation, their needs, and who have urged us to move forward as a legislative chamber in the protection of their rights; also to all those entities who have not had the opportunity to appear and who have sent us their demands at the meetings we have held with them as a parliamentary group, in order, despite the veto by some groups, to convey their voice as well. Today we should be able to say that we will finally take a step forward in the defence of equality and non-discrimination for all the citizens of Catalonia, without any difference, depending on their origin, language, gender, religion, sexual orientation, culture, health, economic, social status. Recently, we have celebrated forty-two years of democracy, peace and coexistence, based on the Constitution, which is the great charter that we Spanish people have given ourselves and on which all the legislative activity that is taking place in our country, including that which we are going to adopt today or tomorrow, and which guarantees, in its article 10, the right to dignity and, in article 14, the right to equality of all Spaniards without any discrimination and under which we here have been appointed Members. There have been incorporated amendments by Citizens which state that the text of this law is precisely covered by the Constitution. These months of the presentation have been arduous. I would also like to thank the Members who have taken part in the presentation for their willingness to debate, at least on the part that we have been able to discuss. I would like to thank the advisers, the team of social afers of Citizens, especially my colleague Noemi de la Calle, and the staff of Parliament for their enormous work and for the counter-clock to be able to finish this law before the end of the legislature; a legislature that has ended prematurely because those who have governed us have put their partisan interests before us in the secessionist drift of Catalonia and in the confrontation against Spain to the interests of all Catalans, as would have been working more deeply on the content of this law. The haste was never a good counselor, and less so when it was intended to do, in the last three months, what has not been done throughout the legislature, and despite being such an important law as this, it has had a hasty legislative development. As I said, today we should say that we are finally taking a step forward in the defence of equality and non-discrimination, but unfortunately some aspects of the text mean that, despite having a fabulous appearance, there are deficits that will prevent it from fulfilling its purpose. And that is a shame, especially because some of the entities that came to appear did so in the hope that this Government would finally begin to take its situation seriously. It is a pity that people who today suffer situations of discrimination in Catalonia do not deserve deaf ears to their demands. And I say this because the entities that appeared unanimously asked us for two things: one, that the law enforcement agency should be independent of the public administration and be composed of independent experts of the administration. And why did they ask for it like that? Because without denying that a part of the violations of the right to equality and non-discrimination are carried out by natural and legal persons, most of the situations that transmitted to us in which these rights are being violated today in Catalonia and by which they needed legislation to protect them are perpetrated by the public administrations of Catalonia. They explained to us situations of discrimination in the field of health: collectives that do not have guaranteed access to treatments, both social and health care, in the frequency and intensity that have shown effectiveness, unlike other collectives that do. As, for example, the case of persons with experience in mental health and their families, competence transferred entirely to the Catalan public administration. They explained to us problems of accessibility due to the existence of barriers for people with some kind of physical or sensory disability, whose application of adjustments and negligence since they have not already done so is also the competence of the Catalan Public Administration. They explained to us discrimination in the field of education on the grounds of language, since Spanish-speaking children cannot study in their mother tongue, although it has been shown that this hinders the acquisition of knowledge. Even children with special educational needs are not saved from the unjust deprivation of this right. And those who are infringing discrimination are the Catalan public administration. Today we have learned that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has recognized the right of the children of Catalonia to receive 25_per_cent of their classes in Spanish. It has given us the reason we have been saying for a long time that Catalonia's educational model violates this right and discriminates against Spanish-speaking children, and it declares the Generalitat's obligation to take the necessary measures to ensure that all pupils receive education effectively and immediately through the normal use of both languages. Children with special educational needs are also not guaranteed in Catalonia that they will have the necessary support to participate on equal terms in the school called inclusive, and that because of the lack of such support it is not. And this discrimination is being applied by the Catalan public administration. Entities have alerted us to the growth of discriminatory behaviours based on ideology and political opinion. We see it daily in the public media that silence the voice of constitutionalism and continuously link the use of Spanish with other stigmatizing features; public media that depend on the Catalan Public Administration. And, indeed, we find ourselves in a situation where discrimination on the grounds contemplated by this law is an institutional and structural reality in the Public Administration of Catalonia. Of course, all these groups are calling for measures not to be discriminated against by the Catalan public administration itself, which should not only guarantee its protection, but should also not be discriminating against them actively and by omission. We were called upon to make progress in the implementation of this right. And go ahead with the commitment..., our commitment, that of Citizens, with their demands. And yet, this law will not effectively address any of these situations. It gives the impression that the Government wants to set up an agency without procedural guarantees that when they have to judge violations of the right to equality carried out by the Administration, the same Administration will have to act as a judge and as a party and appoint fingers to those who have to judge it. Do you really believe that a finger - appointed court on the part of the councillor of Afers Socials is going to judge the councillor itself when it does not provide the necessary resources for persons with disabilities to access them on equal terms? Moreover, this law does not provide for penalties to be imposed on the Administration when the acts of discrimination are perpetrated. But, of course, there was a lot of haste to finish the presentation and approve the one before the end of the legislature, instead of having a calm, intense and deep debate of the whole articulated, that would allow to have a text in line with the demands of the collectives. Because the second issue that generated consensus among all entities was that this law, which had been being processed since two legislatures..., that rather than being in a hurry to finish the one in any way, let us do it well, we provide them with a tool that would effectively protect their right to equality, non-discrimination, and, beyond that, preserve their right to dignity. In our view, there has been a lack of ambition, responsibility and rigour in complying with the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber. The protection of these rights is such that it would have deserved it. Those who are suffering violations of these essential rights would have deserved it. In Citizens we have on numerous occasions demonstrated our commitment to the protection of all, of all these rights, for all citizens. A few weeks ago, in Congress and in the Senate, we succeeded in illegalizing the forced sterilization of persons with disabilities. Throughout the legislature we have fought for the non-discrimination of people with mental health experiences and their families, both in access to treatments and in the community approach that would allow their decisions and those of their families to be actively taken into account when applying treatments. We have defended the non-discrimination of families with special educational needs to choose the educational model they want for their children in ordinary school or in special schools, according to their needs and capacities; all rights that have succumbed under the populist criteria of the Celaá law. In the absence of a state law protecting LGBTI people, we have submitted a proposal for a law on social equality and non-discrimination to this group. And also in the Congress, yesterday, we registered the General Law on Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, in order to respond to that unanimous cry of all movements for tolerance, those working for the fight against all forms of racism and xenophobia, to have an independent body that will ensure its compliance, not like what is going to happen with this law in Catalonia. Two days ago, UNICEF Spain recognized the law registered by Citizens to fully recover and shield the dependent child benefit, to ensure equal opportunities. This is Citizens: the defence of the dignity of people, of all people, of the inviolable rights inherent in them, of the free development of personality, of equality in rights, obligations and opportunities for all people. For a long time we have flagged in Catalonia the struggle to ensure the non-discrimination of all political opinions in the public media, where there is a sectarian television, paid with everyone's money, which acts as a speaker and belt for the transmission of independence. Citizens have led in this Parliament the fight against anti-Semitism, which is on the rise today in Europe, and fed both by the extreme left populisms as well as the extreme right populisms and by jihadism. Citizens have also led here in this Parliament the struggle for the rights of the Roma people, and with this law we have managed to negotiate and to adopt our amendments, which guarantee that resources will be provided to educational institutions to carry out non-discriminatory education and guarantee equality. We have also succeeded in approving that access to health and social treatment for all groups should be guaranteed and that the public display of symbolism that promotes any kind of discrimination should be punished. In Citizens we are well aware of discrimination on grounds of origin, race, culture. And there is only one race: the human race. Citizens take their names precisely from liberal postulates that recognize the rights of all human beings equally, under this concept of citizenship. And despite the fact that the parties that support the Government have filled their mouths with the defence of non-discrimination, the truth of this law is that the Administration can continue to discriminate with impunity, without sanctions and with the complicity of the body that should enforce it. And that is why even after this law is passed there will be a need for firm progress in the fight against discrimination. It will be necessary to deploy the Regulation, not like what has happened with the other social laws adopted so far, which have served to take a photo and sleep in some drawer waiting for its regulation to be deployed, such as the LGTBI Act, which entities have been claiming since 2014; such as the Housing Act; such as the Accessibility Act; such as the Children Act; such as the Catalan Sign Language Act. And it will also be necessary for the forthcoming legislature to implement a modification of the text in order to make it truly useful for protection, the right to equality and non-discrimination. Finally, I can say that we have tried everything to ensure that this law is applied from an independent office and that it has the quality that the entities have demanded of us. We've done everything in our hand – everything. Because Catalonia needs a government that works for all citizens, not the disgovernment it has been in for the last decade, in which the process has been prioritized rather than implementing serious policies for all citizens, without exclusion and without discrimination as hitherto. I have no doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.66.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.67.0	... that Citizens is the only sensible alternative that can work from the Government of the Generalitat for all citizens. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.68.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word, now, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.69.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, well, I would first like to greet all the entities and associations that are following us at these times by different telematic means or have come here to Parliament specifically to follow these interventions today. As you know, finally, today we are discussing the committee's opinion and the subsequent vote – in fact, it will be tomorrow – on the Bill for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination. They know perfectly well that we are late, and we are also aware that this government has repeatedly incomplete many laws passed in this Parliament. I say this because the year 2014 was approved this law, 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals, and also to eradicate homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. And the law, this known as the LGTBI law, gave no more or less than the government, in terms of eight months to count from the date of publication, had to pass on to Parliament the bill of law of non-discrimination. In terms of eight months, deputies and deputies. The law was approved in October 2014. Therefore, by June 2015 is the date on which the new equal treatment law and non-discrimination were to be processed and approved. But in eight-month accounts, we had to wait five years, a necessary and essential law. For those who are not familiar with it and making a little rest from the previous legislature, which ended, they must remind him, hastily, of the Law Project for equal treatment and non-discrimination was due to the finalization of the legislature, and this forced him to start another time from scratch the whole process. By the April of the 19th, it was asked to process the urgent procedure of all the papers. A year and eight months after we bring her to the Ple. Therefore, we can assure and note that this law has not been the priority of the Government, neither the Government of Esquerra nor the Government of Junts for Catalonia. Because today we could see how laws were approved that were done in two months – in two. Neither one thing nor the other we consider to be good: neither five years nor two months. What is certain is that the government, at the time of some elections, wanted, yes or yes, to approve this law before the end of the legislature. We consider that the current government has not been on the rise. They haven't put their hands on it, counselor; they haven't put interest in it, and less has been the center of their priorities. I would like to remind the Council that it has been unable, throughout the entire legislature, to come to the Commission of Equality to explain precisely the objectives and policies of equality or the measures to be followed in accordance with the guarantees of rights and non-discrimination; or to come to debate on the course to fight against the growing violence against the LGTBI collection; or simply to mark the political priorities to follow with people with disabilities and dependence. All of them political actions that are under their competence, under their department. We're still waiting for him, counselor. You have a new opportunity to come in on your own 21st Dill, which is the Commission of Igualtat, and make us the summary of your pocket. The invitation you can come. Everyone should be aware that this law has been claimed for many collections that have expressed their discomfort on various occasions because it was not approved when it was touched. It cost them two legislatures. Without going any further, last November the social entities came here to Parliament to claim approval of the law. In fact, the National Council of Youth, the Council of Gent Gran, the National Council of Donations, the National Council LGTBI and the ECAS, representing more than seven hundred entities, demanded their approval immediately, before, obviously, this legislature ended. I'm here. An essential law to advance towards collective and individual freedom. The purpose of this draft law, therefore, is to establish the principles and regulate the measures and procedures to ensure and enforce the equal right of treatment and non-discrimination, respect for human dignity and protection before any form of discrimination, whether by birth, nationality, nationality, belonging to a minority, colour of skin, ethnicity, religion, ideology, sexual identity, age or any other condition. They also want to promote the eradication of racism and xenophobia, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia or LGBTIphobia, to name but a few. The multiple incidents that usually occur make the entry into force necessary quickly of this law and that it is deployed as we have established. We cannot allow any more discriminatory act, come from hate crimes or violence or any form of intolerance. And we cannot accept what has happened with the LGTBI Law, where the decree regulating the sanctioning regime still has to be deployed, after, deputies and deputies, six years of its approval – six years. Certainly, while maintaining Catalonia's law of effective equality of women and men and the law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people, situations of discrimination and unequal treatment continue to occur. This law, then, must be a step in this direction. The view we make at the general level of the Law on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress is positive, if we have found some shortcomings that we have supplemented with eighty-seven points that we have proposed and that have allowed us to make a much more complete and granted text; points that we have presented listening and talking to the various colleagues who have gone through the process, and which I thank today for their patience, especially patience, and dedication to the better of this law. Some considerations have been largely claimed by the vast majority of respondents, as is the case – and we have not spoken here and it has come out – to guarantee the independence of the protection and promotion body of equal treatment and non-discrimination, in order to be able to face, for example, those discriminations that occur in the same Administration, so that the body must count on participation, also of organizations and collections. These were some of their demands. This has been one aspect that we have given more special attention to. Although we have done a joint work of all the groups, we have not managed to get the body – before it named 'organ, for if someone is lost – to be completely independent and attached to the competent department of the Generality. In addition, the body must strive to comply with the requirements of this law, with the aim of avoiding all forms of direct or indirect discrimination, both in the public and private sectors. You'll have to look back, more than that, before this Parliament. And not just that. We can't just stay with this. We have succeeded in introducing what the entities and associations called: that an expert committee is integrated into the structure of this body, that can intervene in the procedures of instruction, sanction and evaluation. The participation of this committee will mainly involve the preparation of reports which, as a general rule, are voluntary and non-binding, while – and this – and all that is very important – the reports that are produced in the proceedings where one of the parties is the Public Administration or any entity or entity in the public sector..., the reports have a precept and binding character – precept and binding, I repeat. I can't help but comment that the law also sets out the supplementary character of this law in accordance with specific sectoral legislation and what we already have. We would like to point out that we have left eleven living items, because we believe that they should have been incorporated into the text of the law; items relating to the field of education, such as the content of the formation of the student's special attention in the right of equal treatment and non-discrimination in the learning for the eradication of rebuking, for, intolerance, harms, stereotypes, hate speech, exclusion, discrimination, attitudes and conducts of masculinism, racism, LGTBIphobia. We also believe that the principle of co-education should be incorporated into the tutorial action plans and the co-existence plans and rules of educational centres. And for that reason, we kept the papers. But it should also be possible to combat discrimination against people with some type of disability, so as to achieve its full inclusiveness. We believe that an intergenerational action plan should be implemented to boost the intergenerational encounter and foster knowledge and education against stereotypes, and to raise awareness of non-discrimination per age. Finally, remember that the Government and the Generality department in the field of its competences must dictate, this time indeed in eight months – to see if it is certain – the regulation and the deployment of the sanctioning regime and the remaining provisions that are necessary for the execution of this law, as well as the approval of the regulation decree of the protection and promotion body of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which must not establish the name, structure and functioning. I want to end by giving thanks to all the parliamentary groups that have made it possible to find a joint venture to bring forward a law that has cost us a lot; a recognition to an ingenious task that we have been carrying out the last few weeks the deputies Najat, Saloua, Susanna, Blanca and Manu, who joined it, but I do not want to leave the Hope, which until the end was between us. I would also like to give a special recognition to the staff of the house: the Mercè, the Nuria and the Carme. And I also neglected the Natalia, which is so high that I no longer see it. I'm sorry, Natalia! Natalia, I don't want to neglect it. The staff of the house made a fantastic pocket, and without them we could not have made this document so extensive that it counted with 459 items. Look, despite the fact that we don't have time for happy masses, the passing of this law is a great satisfaction for the end of the legislature. I'm telling you all about it. And I'd like to take it upon myself to wish them a good Nadal and for the kings to pass them a good year of change. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.70.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, has the word, now, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.71.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Vice-President, Members, Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mercè, who also accompany us today, I also believe that it is important to make manifest, effectively, the need and urgency of approval of this law. And we have to start here. We have various entities that are here in Parliament following him, or others that will be following him through the Parliament Channel, and we have already discussed the different petitions that will be brought to the parliamentary groups so that this law has been approved before the end of this legislature, because we cannot afford the luxury of letting it fall again. And I think that this was a responsibility and a duty of all the deputies that we were part of the question. And I think we did the work we had to do and we were at the height we had to be. And that is why we are debating this law today, which is a vote and which is approved tomorrow. Discrimination creates all the spheres of our lives. It is present in everyday life, every time – every time – in all the facts that we do. Obviously, some people suffer more than others, but it's the network, it's the media that are full of discrimination, hate crimes, hate facts that are creating our daily lives. Discrimination affects equal opportunities, affects access to basic and functional rights. Discrimination means that we are not the same, that we cannot guarantee a life of dignity and equal rights for everyone. Catalonia, too. We believe that this is an alert, that it is an alert that as a society we should have all the good presences, and that we are certainly not sufficiently aware of it, because many times, if it does not concern us in our daily lives, we are not aware of it. But what happened to Badalona later, the fire, that's discrimination too, that's unequal in the deal. All the acts, all the facts that we are living every day are subject to discrimination and, moreover, many do not even come out of the light, many are not denounced. Because many times you find with victims who, first, do not give importance; second, they are accustomed to discrimination; third, in the end, the question many times is: "Denouncing? Totally, why? If it doesn't work for nothing. This is the drama: the underreporting and this feeling that it's not going to serve anything that I've denounced and that I'm raising my voice because I'm being discriminated against, because I'm being discriminated against, because I'm not being treated as equals to other people, to other citizens and citizens. In fact, the report of the Observatory of Discrimination in Barcelona, which is formed by the Office for Non-Discrimination and divides entities of the city, precisely one of the things that they detect as the main problem in the fact of discrimination is this sub-denunciation. And I can list some of the reasons that specify as a reason for this sub-denunciation: discrimination as a daily and normalized way of life, lack of confidence in a poorly implemented system before complaints of discrimination, lack of proximity and accessibility to the citizenry, the consequences, the extreme vulnerability of certain victim profiles, denial or shame, complaint procedures that are not sufficiently accessible, the economic cost, the lack of legal recognition of some discriminations and the lack of knowledge of the same rights and disorientation on whom to go. To all this, this should be a first step in giving an answer. That's what it's supposed to do. Why is this question of "and what is it for? Have a quick answer and that is the answer of this law. We have commented that there are entities that are accompanying us, which I also want to greet, as well as all those that are following us by streaming, but it is certainly up to now that these entities have made the main task of investigating and denouncing these discriminations. And we have, for example, the observer against LGTBifóbia, who has reported more than 700 incidents for LGTBifóbia since 2014 and 185 only in 2020. Or the work of SOS Racism or Iridia denouncing discrimination by the administered state, or by reason of origin, or by reason of race or ethnicity, such as the identifications based on racial motius that have been constantly denounced and that have been asked once and another to intervene from the Interior Council to avoid such identifications by the Mossos d'Esquadra. Or today, that we can read to the courts a complaint from the lawyer Pastora Filigrana, who complained precisely that, in a case of a gypsy girl who was sexually abused at the age of eleven, her lawyer had attached, like the aggressor's exemption, that as the girl belonged to the gypsy culture, that it is already known that it is a culture in which they begin to have sexual relations of very young, so that this aggression had not had so much impact. That's right, anti-Gyptanism and denial of masculinist rapes in the same fact. So that's exactly what you should be fighting this law, too. If we made a list of discriminations for genera's sake, we wouldn't be done. And, in fact, I also want to refer to the Law for equal opportunities between men and women, which was also approved in this Parliament five years ago, and which is a law that has not been deployed with the necessary resources and that is not working to avoid these discriminations. Or, for example, those who have denounced so many of the Office for the Non-Discrimination of the Barcelona Assembly or of entities working with a diverse population of origin, the difficulties they have in accessing a contract of logger, a habitation of logger, simply when they make phone calls to the real estate agency and hear them speak or when they give their surnames. Also, it doesn't very well, we saw a case in the courts of a girl who, as a result of having magrebious surnames of origin, was hiding here automatically invalidated by a contract that she was about to sign. But I would like, somehow, to insist on the fact that this law is necessary, but that it actually went late, it went very late. And I believe that Marta, the partner of the socialist group, has already made an enumeration of the times of this law, of the impossible times. Because it is certain that it was due to the previous legislature, that it was already late in the previous legislature, that this legislature has been a long, complicated process and that it has led us to reach this end of the legislature with accelerated rhythms that did not allow us to devote the time we needed in order to be able to debate the joint as we were supposed to have discussed. And one of the main obstacles was the initial project – and it's hard for me to say, but I have to say – that it was a flow project, a project that didn't work. And that's what a lot of the attendees told us, about a hundred of them that we had in question. To approve a bill of law like this, maybe it's better that we don't approve it. And that's what we heard in that... In fact, one of the questions we've repeatedly asked is: "But is it worth working and approving this law? And they call us representatives of different entities: "Home, if it's work and it's much changed, if it's much better... And I think it's the job that did this job. I think it's the work they've done, above all, the peers who brought us all their documents and all their contributions and many points that the parliamentary groups that we've done basically is to collect them. It is true that it is a question that has advanced with many difficulties, and that we also need to be able to say, and all the companies will reflect on it. I think we've put all this on our side, but it's true that it's been difficult, that we've had tense moments to the challenge, that we've had complicated moments of debate, because, as we say, there are fears that they affect values, beliefs and ideological positions of the different groups that were at the challenge. But it's also true – and I also want to pick it up – that we don't think there was enough effort on the part of the government either – and I also want to say it; the councilman is not there now, but I would also like to be told – that sometimes it seemed like the government itself didn't feel like it. I believe that we all have to recognize Najat's ingenious task, his insistence, which has surely been one of the things that we really did get to this point in this legislature, but also that many times we have had the feeling that there was no support and technical support on the part of the government that is in charge, in order to give answers to the different points that the groups had presented. Above all at the beginning; then there was a certain change, there was more involvement, and that made many of the papers presented accepted or traded. At least in the case of our group it's been like that. We believe that with all this, with all these contributions, with the papers, we have reached points of agreement and points of compromise that make this law, of course, much better than the initial law and that it is a good starting point to work against discrimination and to defend the equal treatment. Obviously, I would also like, here at this point, to thank all the members, all the deputies who have participated in the question – they have already thought: the White, the Marta, the Manu, the Natalia, the Najat, the Saloua – but also, and above all – and they have also been told – to accompany the staff of the Parliament – to the Mercè, to the Carme and to the Nuria – because, in fact, without them there was nothing like this. And we all know that there have been many hours, many more than perhaps at an early age, that there have been hours at other hours of the morning, right? We have, at least in the Nuria, very late in the morning, sending us the corrections to the opinion. I think it's actually a job that needs to be recognized, that needs to be valued, and it needs to be done from here, from this room. Now we have a good starting point, but they shut down the resources to deploy it – and it's said already – we can't just stay on paper mule, we can't just stay in black over white, because it's a luxury we can't afford. It can't be that this one gets approved, and it doesn't go any further, and we're going as if. Because that's a little bit of a favor that we'd be doing to all the parties that we're giving support to this law, but also to all the entities that work for the defense of human rights and against discrimination, and to all those people who suffer from discrimination. There have already been examples of laws approved in this Parliament that have not been deployed: the Law against Masclist Violence, has not been deployed with the resources that were needed; the Law for the effective equality of men and women, has not been deployed either. We are now waiting for the assessment report to be made of its first five years of implementation, and we fear that the reports will come again to say, as the 2010 reports said, that it has not been deployed with the necessary resources. And it has already been mentioned – I don't think there is much – Law 11/2014, which is one of those laws that repeatedly during this legislature – for me was the first – we have heard the entities and organizations denounce their lack of deployment and the lack of approval of the sanctioning regime. And we're done with the legislature and we don't have it. And I remember that this issue has been coming out of the Committee on Equality since the beginning of this legislature. And it was a short term, but it was practically three years. And, in three years, no more than this law – no more – despite repeated petitions by entities and by parliamentary groups. Now it's time for the government to rise to the law it's approving. They have thanked us for the collaboration and the ability and the facilitation of the groups to improve this law. Now it's up to them, like the government, to compliment this law. And we have set ourselves eight months to implement all the regulatory deployment and organ that must give the follow-up and that must give the answer. Eight months is a short time, it's time. But it can't be that between eight months and five years. And it can't be that we don't have this capacity from the Administration to give answers and, above all, to sanction complaints. So, we have to have the ability to prove, first, that it's work for prevention and training, that it's the foundation of this law, and that it's creating all the areas that we've deployed in this law: health, education, security, housing. Prevention of discrimination, training necessary to avoid discriminatory attitudes: clau. But then, the ability to be owned by the citizenry and, somehow, to respond to all these sub-denominational motives because people who suffer from this discrimination grow in the Administration. You've got it, haven't you? , therefore, this lack of confidence in the Administration. We need to reduce this mistrust of the citizenry to the Administration at the time of defending their rights against discrimination. And that has to be done with an effective policy on the part of the government to deploy this law. And that's what does with resources. And the law..., different ideas that have been presented basically about what they were talking about was about resources—resources, resources. And our colleagues have also told us: the ability to implement, the ability to deploy. What capacity it will have to collect these complaints, to raise awareness and make a whole campaign, which is also collected to the law, of what the law says and who are the means at the disposal of the citizenry. This is the first we have to do, it's prevention and information the first we have to do. But then we have to have this space where people can go, report and get an answer. That his consignor is being investigated, that his consignor is being processed, that he is being listened to and that there is an answer and that there is a sanction. The law affects the public and private sphere. In the case of the public administrations – it has already been said – it is more important than ever that the body that has to do all this process of attention to demand, of the processing of the consignment, with this organ adviser than we have been endowed with, precisely, trying to guarantee a greater autonomy, have the ability to give this answer and that its reports are binding in the cases that the Administration is responsible for discrimination. There's another important thing we add to the law, and it's the burden of proof. The burden of proof now passes to that natural or legal person, private or public, who has allegedly discriminated against him; not to the person who denounces the discrimination. And that's a very important change, because it can't be that the burden of proof is on the person who violated his rights. We have also introduced the patrimonial responsibility of the one who discriminates. Cal answer, cal answer, cal take responsibility. There is another important aspect, which is also that we are one of the themes that we have worked on, and it is the role of the assemblies, also, in the fight against discrimination; a fundamental role because it is the Administration that is closest to the citizenry. And this law foresees that the Barcelona Assembly, but not only the Barcelona Assembly, all the assemblies that it wants, can equip itself with the necessary mechanisms to implement this law, and that it has sanctioning capacity. And it's also very important, because many times the citizenry will go to that Administration which is at the edge of the street, which is next to it, and this – and we know it – is the gatherings. So, the one who couldn't do this law, as ugly initially, was to let go of the gatherings of the sanctioning ability. That, through the papers, we have been able to correct it, and now what it is to deploy it too. I would like to highlight the subject of the organization a little bit. We proposed the creation of an office for non-discrimination, and practically already we proposed the deployment of the office. But we were already afraid that the law would leave it all open, as it is actually leaving it, and we would leave it to a subsequent regulatory deployment that would end up leaving us in a limbo. But finally, in the areas of consensus and agreement, we have granted the proposal that we have made since the government to have this body created for the government, because it is the only way – and I think it is very important – to ensure that it will be effective in investigations and in dispatches and sanctions, and it is a fundamental issue. We have valued it above all, but it is true that we have endowed it with this independent body that will have to report, that in cases of violations of rights by the Administration must be preceptive and binding. It's a way to force this autonomy, to shield this autonomy. I wanted to take advantage of this intervention to take advantage of everyone in this legislature. Give thanks to everyone with whom we have been able to work colza in colza, to those with whom we have had more or less finds and destroys. Some of us may see each other later, maybe we won't stay here... but it's important that we start and commit all of us to making the legislature more productive and have more change for the citizenry. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.73.0	Good afternoon, everyone. We could say it cost God and help to get here. All the Members who have spoken before me have already said this: we are coming from the moon, it has been long and we arrive partly late. This legislature was already imperial, it was urgent to approve it, as was the previous legislature. We're late, but we're late. So I think we can celebrate. The initial project, the Susanna spoke. And, in this sense, I would like to make a petition to the Government – and especially taking into account the intervention made by the Councillor –: they do not make the mistake of getting close to this law. This was thanks to the Parliament of Catalonia and to all the speakers we have participated in enriching an initial project that lacked structural questions in the field of non-discrimination and equal treatment. That's why I also want, even though it has already been done, to give thanks to all the roommates, to the White, the Susanna, the Marta, in Manu, the Hope as well. And above all, and no less, the Najat and the Saloua: that two women migrated to and from this law is no less. Full recognition of migrating people's political rights is a must and a long way to go. Give thanks also to Mercè Arderiu, the Linguistic Technique Núria Lucena and the manager Carme Alonso. A law of women; this isn't much smaller either. He was talking about the political rights of migrating people. And, therefore, I first want to denounce the consequences of a racist foreign law that denies the right to vote thousands of times in our country. We cannot talk about democracy or equal treatment if there are indeed thousands of people who see such obvious political apartheid. And I also do this with reference to the quote made by the Member of the House of Commons regarding the Constitution. The Spanish Constitution is a constitution that denies rights, that does not guarantee equality. And this lack of recognition of all diversity and reality has consequences. And it has consequences in the form of rape. And we've seen it in Badalona these past few weeks. So that we don't tackle all the mechanisms of institutional racism that impose rapes on the migrant population, we can't talk about equal treatment and non-discrimination. Badalona's fire was not a fire or a casual accident, it is the result of a profoundly racist political and economic system that marginalizes, excludes and denies the right to habitat and human dignity thousands of lives and veins. The data from the latest report published by SOS Racisme indicate that violence and racism are increasing. The attacks perpetrated, for example, on the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra are an example, at Bages. This Parliament has protested against these racist attacks, has demanded the Government of the Generality to suspend the movements that have been perpetrated by these racist attacks. And we're still the same. And I set this example to deepen on the question that some very consensual papers – and that, I insist, we celebrate today that we approve this law – are not enough. It is a compromise for what it does to economic resources, as has already been said, and a political compromise for not leaving violence unpunished, as has been done, on the part of the government that says it pushes this law, in the case of the Mossos d'Esquadra al Bages. The Observer against Homophobia, who is also doing a great job – and who we want to recognize his work here today too – also alerts us of the gravity of the increase in rapes against LGBTI people. The 21st and 22nd of September we knew heavy, brutal rapes against LGBTI people. Attacks have increased with 185 reported assaults, bearing in mind that it is estimated that 70_percent of rapes in the LGTBI collection are not reported. We have tried to work on these contributions that we thought were missing from the initial bill. We believe and are satisfied with everything that we have brought, that we have agreed and that we have worked. We've had a lot of attention in the definitions. No one can escape that it is complicated to show that discrimination has occurred when definitions are vague. It meant pointing to the dynamics of privileges and oppression, which are key to hearing discrimination, as well as explaining the intersection between the different vectors of oppression. The CUP, I insist, we wanted to put forward a proposal to have an effective instrument against discrimination and hatred as a priority, despite the fact that there are some questions that have not been incorporated. We had..., our starting point was to guarantee human dignity, non-discrimination and equality among all people, such as the foundational pillars of a just and democratic society; a big goal we know that a law does not sunk alone. And that's why I also want to put on the table the management of expectations of all the collections and entities that made this law possible, and that this law, if it's from anyone, is from all these collections. Manage expectations so as not to generate frustration and, especially, because expectant masses can also generate impunity. Therefore, if this law does not apply it will be a photo and a headline and perhaps some campaign arguers. And I think that any of the people or the collections that made this possible, we want this object. From now on we understand the work against hatred, against all forms of discrimination..., we do it from a concrete point of view: we want to take away the false grounds of neutrality, because we understand that we are all clear that it is not the same as being an oppressor. How many times have we heard the argument that extremes are touching, that fascism and anti-physism are the same? It is necessary to disassemble the image of the two extremes that are touched, as if they were two extremes that fight for a hegemony. We can't hear fascism and discrimination as more than an articulation of a political stance; it's not. Feixism and discrimination are articulated and defined against equality, dignity and universal access to rights, central axes of a democratic society. And, in this sense, we have also made all the contributions that have been possible. We have wanted to work on an instrument that can make visible and bring out these discriminations that affect the citizens of our country on a daily basis. Some Catalan countries that have seen some are no longer there, with Guillem Aguló, with Pedro Álvarez, with Sonia Rescalvo. Catalan countries that daily suffer discrimination, such as the union's companies to maintain, which see that they are persecuted day by day, or like the companies of the Anti-racist Space of Salt and Girona, which fight because young people without family references to our country are not left without help. I ended up regretting those questions that have not been placed on the table or that we have posed on the table and that have not been incorporated into it. It cannot speak of equal treatment if we do not guarantee one hundred_per_cent public services. We can't talk about equal treatment from institutions while programs like Proderai are deployed. We cannot speak of equal treatment if institutions maintain mechanisms of racism and institutional exclusion. And I'm done, President, if I may. We are also very sorry that in the field of work we have not accepted any of our papers; we believe that this is a mistake. So, we also understand that an out-of-school network is not a network that guarantees equal treatment between all children. We regret these shortcomings, but we celebrate as far as we've come, and be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.74.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.75.0	...a stone on the Sabbath of the future Government of the Generality to apply this law without subterfuges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.76.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.77.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, today we have on the table a proposal for a law on equal treatment and non-discrimination, a law that has been discussed for a long time, which should have been dealt with and worked more in advance, but which comes to the end of the legislature in a hasty way, in a strong final sprint. In our view, there has been a lack of maturity, depth and greater debate on this proposal for a law, but let us go ahead with our thanks to the rapporteur, to the Najat, to all the other rapporteurs of the various parliamentary groups and, of course, also to the staff of the Catalan Parliament. A huge job to be able to arrive at the..., practically on the penultimate day of this last plenary of this term. The bill we are dealing with is a comprehensive text, with numerous articles and additional provisions; more than 450 amendments tabled by all political formations, which have made work really complicated, difficult, because of the lack of time, and because they were really intense and very lively debates, on many occasions. The purpose of this Act is to guarantee the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, to eradicate actions that violate the dignity of persons. That is why, from the People's Party, we have always defended equality of opportunity, the dignified treatment that anyone deserves and that cannot be discriminated against either by race, origin, skin colour or any other reason. We defend freedom in an open and plural society of free and equal citizens, with respect for democratic values and also, of course, constitutional values. Thanks to those constitutional values we are all here today, in freedom; thanks to those constitutional values we have sufficient autonomy to be able to deal with this law in this Parliament and to discuss it. In an open and plural Spain, we all have rights, but also obligations. We must respect the laws and freedoms that they grant us and that we enjoy. This law covers from the public administration to the private sphere of society, through political parties, trade unions, businesses and a longet cetera. From the People's Party we argue that two people who do the same work must have the same remuneration; there cannot be two different wages to two people who are doing the same work and that the reason is gender, race or any other criterion. With regard to education, we must guarantee equal opportunities and freedom for families, an aspect that is at risk with the Celaá law and that neither does it improve with this legislation that is presented to us today and that we therefore do not share. Nor do we agree with the conditions that are being imposed on the municipalities with regard to registration. The Government cannot wash its hands and transfer this problem to the municipalities. Another key aspect is access to housing, one of the main problems facing our citizens. Catalonia leads the illegal occupation of all of Spain. It is a tragedy that many working families and small owners suffer: the fear that their housing will be illegally occupied with total impunity. Today in Catalonia illegal occupation is a social problem, and we demand this government zero tolerance. In Catalonia there have been more than 3,600 complaints, complaints, in the first six months, almost half of those made in Spain during the same period. Catalonia leads this ranchine: twenty daily occupations every day – twenty occupations. Catalonia also recorded a growth in occupations of 13_per_cent in the first semester, when in other communities, for example in Madrid, they fell by 10_per_cent. On the media, neither do we share the spirit that inspires us or brings us into the drafting of the articles of this law; neither do we share it nor trust the Government. We don't trust how you manage TV3 or Catalunya Radio. They are not plural means, and with this law neither will they be. These freedoms are not guaranteed, such equal treatment is not guaranteed; this non-discrimination brought by this law is currently not guaranteed in the public media in Catalonia. We can talk about the commentators in the many well paid TV3 chats, with always the same ideological bias, or also about the topics of the language on public television that we pay all Catalans, and that does not collect that plurality of languages that are spoken in our territory. On the creation of a body for the protection and promotion of equality, we have serious doubts; serious doubts about its independence and that it does not become a new guild of this Government to place the turn friends, that it does not again become a focus to divert subsidies, to which we are unfortunately already accustomed. We will therefore not support the creation of this new body. We want efficiency and efficiency in public administration, but no more chiringuitos. Nor do we share the sanctioning regime. Catalonia is today the autonomous community with the most taxes, the one that has the greatest fiscal pressure, and the sanctioning regime does not precisely seek equality, does not seek to eradicate discrimination, aims to increase the fiscal pressure that Catalans have, and therefore we will not support that sanctioning regime that accompanies the law. I wouldn't laugh, Vice President. You know Catalonia has eighteen taxes – eighteen taxes – I remind you. Do we want equality? We want equality with Madrid. Quit 15 taxes and we will have the same as Madrid has; that is indeed equality. Let us bet on that equality, Mr Vice-President. So, yes, that's the equality we want from the People's Party. We also want equality on public television, 300_million_de_euros, twice as much as any other television in any other autonomous community. If we want equality, let's lower the cost of TV3 and dedicate that money so necessary for vulnerable families who don't reach the end of the month in Catalonia. That is real equality, equal opportunities, equal putting money in those that are people's priorities, not in creating new structures – bad state calls, as you like – or those fantasy embassies that we are used to. If they take the money and put it in what the Catalans really need, we will have equality, there will be no discrimination, in that – in that – we are the People's Party. Not in creating new organs, in continuing to sanction, in continuing to fine Catalans, all those who do not follow the unique thought that some from the government want to impose. Therefore, those proposals that support the eradication of discrimination, we will support them; those proposals aimed at equality, we will support them; in the rest, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.78.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix her position, she now has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Najat Driuech, another time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.79.0	Well, thank you, President. Before I remembered Consul Dolors Bassa, and I think that everyone we know... approved this law, for me would be one of the best honors I can do. This is exactly what they tell us every time we do both she and President Forcadell, which I also want to remind you of today. He always tells us that we work to win rights for everyone and to get a better and fairer country. You've just felt like you're here, being here in this room, if we can move forward in that sense. This is a law, as most of my companies have said, of cross-cutting character and which has as its object the planning of public policies for prevention, the eradication of discriminatory actions in the public and private sphere. This is what we approve of today: protecting all those people who are victims of these discriminations and working to prevent them from ever getting anywhere again. A law that must protect my vein, Mrs. Antonia, which is discriminated against by the mere fact of being great – be great, company and company–, or Siham, by its way of dress and which cannot agree to do university practices, or Maimuna, by its skin color – by its skin color –, or the Pere, by its sexual orientation, or Karina, by its origin, or Adriana, by the mere fact of being boring, or the Jordi, because it has the capacity to differ from the rest. Unfortunately, I could follow, follow and follow, because there are many people who suffer discrimination for the simple fact of being like us – many. We – yes, we – do want to make a Republic where everyone is protected, not leave anyone on the road; this is our goal. A law that must guarantee us, that we must protect ourselves from the most difficult discriminations to the most sensile; that in terms of feminism we would say micromasclimisms, here we could say microdiscriminations, as are the usual insults: fat, lletja, maricón, vell, subnormal, moro, boyera, insults that until now come free, and that we stop normalizing expressions like a girl, « aneu made some gypsies, « works like a black or « Bernat today is autistic, and many could say – many. Administrations will have an instrument to combat all these discriminations, because with the approval of this law they will not be able to be neutral, as this approval will also have a mandate to act. Before I finish, I want to point out that this law I think up late, it's true, but at a very important time of pandemic and where to get out of the pandemic, at the time of exit, always the most vulnerable are affected. And this, this law, will be a tool because it also helps us to get out in a different way. Look, I personally want to share an experience or talk about myself – and I shared it with some of the Members –: the past you said in the morning, when I left my children at the school door and came up here to approve the committee's opinion, my children wished me luck because I approved it, because they know what it means. When I was nine years old, you know that I arrived in this country thanks to the efforts of my family, especially my mother, and my personal efforts. So the show lives that Catalan society is inclusive and gives people opportunity. But that didn't exempt me from discrimination. And what I don't want is for my children and the generation of my children to suffer and half the discrimination I've suffered. And so, this law for me has meant or has had a very personal feeling, which I have tried to share with all of you. I think we deserve a society that goes beyond the culture of non-discrimination, because unfortunately, if we are approving a law today that has to combat discrimination, I mean that, like society, we have a lot of work to do. And, finally, President, and all that's over for me, because I only had five minutes because I didn't have any money reserved, to take me from the companies, which is surely his last day, and to say that we will continue here in this Parliament, the next legislature, to follow the deployment, obviously, of this law. Because for me – I've already mentioned it, and the entities also know it – it's a project that takes my personal share. Thank you, Members of Parliament. And also gratify and wish him off to the Saloua Laouaji company, which I'm sure we'll find. Just as we found ourselves at the end of the 1990s, in 2004, and here also in 2018, we will again find ourselves in other spaces to fight and fight all kinds of discrimination. Saloua, very lucky and uncertain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.80.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word, now, Mrs Saloua Laouaji.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.81.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. The issue of racism is very complex, and despite all the discriminations that we accumulate in the heritage motto of the history of humanity, we continue to be urgent – and today more than ever – a law of equal treatment and non-discrimination. A law of these characteristics is necessary today more than ever, as Councillor Chakir El Homrani has said, when we find ourselves every day with hundreds of cases of discrimination in housing, such as the recent case of Badalona – and, of course, I take advantage to express my heartfelt condolences and sadness to the people who have lost their lives–; discrimination because of gender–women, LGTBI collection –; discrimination to people who have migrated, to whom they refuse to open a bank account or register in some of the municipalities of Catalonia; discrimination for the simple image: daily we find people who have been identified by the police– arbitrarily, in many cases– by ethnic profile, to be racialized or registered in some of the municipalities of Catalonia; discrimination for the simple image; discrimination for the simple image: daily we find people who have been identified by the police– in many cases– by ethnic profile, to be racialized or to speak, or to discriminate against Islam. Many of you probably don't see it in the paper, but I'm sure all of you are sensitive and want to be in these situations. That's why it's so important that today we approve of this law, because every day we find ourselves with the threat of the extreme right that is posing with a speech of hatred and with policies that banalize Nazism, as happened in this parliament. These are some of the examples of discrimination that we live in our society on a daily basis, but the worst is that many of them are invisible, because they are produced in the private sphere: in the communities of life, with workers in the field of care, in the family clusters, in the field of public health in relation to people with disabilities and others. That's why we're here today, and today we have to congratulate ourselves on how people involved, Members, Members... with all the names that have been said, I don't need to repeat it again. But especially I give thanks and congratulations to Najat for her leadership of the project, because we have managed, despite the difficulties, to bring the law to the vote at the last session of this legislature. For this reason, from Juntas to Catalunya, we want to give thanks to the entities and the collection for the appearances, for the involvement and for the recommendations. We thank and congratulate the Nuria, Mercè and Carme – which is the late, the manager..., and the linguistic advice – for the work they have done. And I want to highlight the work we've done together for Catalonia, because in a cooperative way we've contributed to the better of this project. We have gathered and supported the government in all its different positions. We have succeeded in having mechanisms that can help us to better protect the citizenship of any discriminatory treatment. I will, of course, vote in favour. But I'd like to highlight three points on which we don't agree, even though we've removed the papers, and Najat knows it. First, it relates to the issue of refusing to introduce the concept of intolerance. The second point relates to the concept of race. And the third, in relation to the subject of the health field, which we wanted to include a reference to people who have migrated in an irregular administrative situation because of the discrimination suffered by this collection and the vulnerability in which it is found, especially at this time of pandemic. Do not include it with the justification that these people are protected by the law of universality we believe does not help their effective equality. Well, today we finish this job satisfied, with thanks to everyone who has put his grin. And, if I may, I personally have to acknowledge that this law binds me to President Puigdemont, in what he called me to be a part of the list on 21st December 2017, and it binds me with the sense of making a country, of making a social policy that guarantees the right of people, human rights and diversity. And for all this, getting through to this law on discrimination – a subject that has touched on me both personally and professionally – is the best gift that has touched on me in this finality of the legislature. A legislature that has not been easy; we have lived many times and difficult times. From the 30th generation of 2018, with the failure of the investiture of President Puigdemont, until the impresonation of our political companies and the disqualification of President Quim Torra. I add the Covid theme. I'm done. I thank all the workers of Parliament – from security, from the people of the information, maintenance and administration services – who have made it possible for our daily work to be easier during this legislature. It was an honor for me to represent the people of Catalonia as a Member of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.82.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the debate, I would like to remind you that the vote on the opinion will take place tomorrow as well as the rest. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence]] [[202-00067/12]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the order of the day, which is the debate of the opinion of the Commission of Institutional Affairs on the proposed law amending Law 5/2008, of April 24, the right of women to eradicate male violence. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Susanna Segovia, who was appointed rapporteur for this law, first of all, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.83.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, ponència compañeros new, counsel, obviously I have to start – and I couldn't start in any other way – giving thanks to all the MPs who have formed part of this ponència: the Naomi of the Street, of Ciutadans; the Beatriz Silva, of the Socialist Group; the Manu Reyes, which was incorporated a little later, but which was all land and was always present to all the ponèncias that we had in this last leg of the legislature; the Sánchez Nationala, of the CUP; the Geli Year, of Junts per Catalunya; the Jenn Díaz, of the Republican Group. I think we can say that we're done with this job group, and if we haven't been in a pandemic, maybe we're done with a group of drinks or a group to go to dinner at some point, too, or as I'm sure that at some point we've missed it, right? , these comments, beyond the formality and distance that have imposed on us, in some way, videoconferencing. Obviously, also give thanks to Mercè Arderiu, who also accompanies us now and who brings us with us to these last months, very much. I don't know if she's pointed herself at the exits after the ponència, because it seems to me that she was just a little tired of us. Laia, Joan, who have also helped us with parliamentary management and with language correction. I think they've actually been two very intense months, haven't they? This law was initially a motion; there was a motion that we approved at the end of..., they approved at the end of 2018, where it was precisely the will and the need to reform the law to include institutional violence. One year, in November of the year passed, approximately, our group decided to take a step forward and register this proposal. A proposal that – we are aware, and we have publicly recognised – can thus be compared to the participatory process that gave place to the 2008 law at 5/2008. What we did was contact various experts who brought us in on the content. Laia Serra helped us very much to make the first proposal, but there were also other experts, people who worked with the law of masculinist rapes who made contributions to us, and this gave as a result the text that we originally presented. A text that I am also proud to say that I believe that after the question is much better, that the text has been able to improve a lot, thanks, in good part, to the contributions made by our peers, that we have been able to make in situ, right? We had – and I have it here –..., I think they were like twenty-and-six fellows who were able to compare, during the process of poenence, in poenence. It is certain that all the groups the first effort that we asked when we decided "somehow, among all we want to take, despite the fact that we are... We started the work of the ponència, in reality, at the beginning of October, like the one that said less than two months to finish the legislature, and the first great reflection that we did all in ponència was: "Come for her, I mean, let's swallow her. If we bring her in, I'll make an effort and compromise on all the members of the ponència. I have to say and I have to acknowledge that this commitment and effort has been made by all groups. The first great effort we had asked for was to reduce the number of respondents to a pose, because we had not asked for more than a hundred. It was obvious that if we made the hundred appearances in ponence we wouldn't get to process it. There was an effort on the part of all groups, a few more and a few less, but we substantially reduced our peers, and at the other end we asked them to get their contributions in writing. We also have thirty contributions per writing, which I want to put in value, because I believe all these entities and experts who have contributed to us by writing without having the opportunity to come to Parliament telematically, so they have made this effort to read the law and get us contributions. And I think that also what is very important is that we can say that in the 167 items that we have made the different groups..., we ourselves have made statements to our own text, because, indeed, we believe that there have been contributions on the part of our peers that made the text much better. And in this sense, I think that all groups worked with ideas that greatly improved the text, and that's what we can say now that it was a pride. The most intense moment was certainly since the exams were presented, which we did for the emergency procedure. And, then, arrange them all and make the offer of acceptance and transactions – the excellent fame that has guided us for a few days too – but I think that then it was possible to manifest also the ability that we had all the groups to be able to go to work, to agree, to reach agreements, not accept many of the papers presented, to arrive at transactions with many more, and those that could not be accepted and that remained reserved, therefore, in any way to value the contribution they made. I think we've had some fundraisers from this law. Surely what we could find most missing during this process is, precisely, the ability to have more time to discuss these issues, right? And I'm sure we all have the subject of incorporating diversity of gender into the law of male rape, that it's a subject that we could have talked about a lot more than we've talked about, and that, above all, we could have had a lot more people to compare to give us different views and opinions on this subject. Finally, we arrived at a recommendation, which is what went to the opinion, which is the inclusion of trans women as women from all over the protection of this law, bringing the pathology that was in place at the 2008 law and, somehow, following the sentiments that the same Supreme Court and international bodies say. I think now, briefly, I'd try to get into some of the contents of the law. Another of the themes that we also had debate about and that I also think was a debate that we couldn't do with depth is that of areas and forms, especially for what it does to institutional and digital violence, that we have different ways of hearing it, right? If all two were to be so much form, that is, a way to exercise male violence, or both, that is, an area in which this violence takes place, takes shape and women suffer it. Finally, ponència recommends technological violence as a form and as a whole. Institutional violence would be just as much as male violence. And we also had debates on the subject of consent, which, for example, we made the change from the proposal that there was to the initial text, which was quite focused on the desire, to the expressed will. We believe that the definition of "consent now reinforces this idea of the need for an express will in order to be able to say what is popularly said only if it is or even if we can say more quickly that it is not only not, that it is another way of hearing this expressed will. Other issues that we incorporate into the law: as we say, we incorporate institutional violence, but also due diligence, that is, the obligation that the public authorities have to protect, give attention, provide prevention, training, detection, repair, recovery, accompanying victims throughout the process of exiting from the situation of male violence. And not doing it – and it's important to say – is institutional rape. That is to say, institutional violence is denial, not implementing this diligence as they have the administrations. We have introduced, as I said, digital rapes. It is a fundamental issue that sets us in the 21st century that we are, that 2008 was obviously not virulence that you have at the moment, but I think we are making a very broad recognition of how this violence, both in its form and, as it is, affects the daily lives of women and is a space of rapes. But we have also added, and also in good part thanks to the papers presented for the groups..., there is obstetric rape, that is, rape against the sexual and reproductive rights of women, violence against the right to decide how to be an embarrass, how to be a part. But there was also the violence of the order, which we incorporated from one of the correspondents, Marisa Fernández, who made it clear to us the need to protect also those people and family and professionals who accompany the women victims of male violence and who often suffer this violence. Vicarious violence, which was also a contribution made by the Socialist Group, which is that violence that uses children and girls, also in many cases environmental violence, isn't it? , family members, mascots, everything that has an impact on male psychological violence against women, which is one of the aspects that was not in the 2008 law, but that we have now incorporated it. The importance of having incorporated – and it seems to me also... – the educational environment for masculinist rapes. I also think it's an important contribution that's been made through the reviews. And also the realm of political life and the public sphere. I believe that another step forward that makes this law is the recognition that women who are in political life and who have a public sphere in their activity also suffer from specific male violence. But there are also other issues, such as compulsory training for all professionals working in the care of victims of male violence; as has also been the prohibition of the use of parental alienation syndrome, and I think it is a great step forward, because it is also a form of institutional violence for women to use this non-existent syndrome to affect psychologically and to hurt women through their children and their daughters; the prohibition of mediation in cases of male violence: there can be no mediation when there is a situation of inequality and there is a situation of obvious violence. Millorem, I think, protects children and girls, all minors who suffer from male violence as well. In short, we believe that it is an opinion, it is a proposal of law that reform, which is comprehensive, which strengthens Law 5/2008. It has been a process that has been intense, that has been powerful, but I think we can feel proud that Parliament has come to the end of this legislature with approval of this law and to say that Parliament has been at the height of the feminist movement. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.84.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, and to defend the papers presented, there is a turn for the parliamentary groups. I begin, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, for the deputy Munia Fernández-Jordan. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.85.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, to thank is the first thing that we have to do, arrived here, to debate the amendment of Law 5/2008, on the right of women to eradicate macho violence. First of all, in Comú Puem, promoters of this initiative, for which we are here at the end of the journey today in Parliament: they proposed and we are all involved. In the case of Citizens, the truth is that we have put a lot of strength, a lot of will and in the end that makes us consider it also ours, this legislative amendment. We also want to thank, as it cannot be otherwise, all the rapporteurs and Mr Reyes, who have done the marathons and sometimes that marathon that made us lose information, articles, amendments, excellencies, mails – especially beginners like me –..., we have managed not to be so arid, but to really reign an atmosphere of professionalism and I believe that even sometimes camaraderie. It is very satisfactory to enjoy serious and constructive parliamentaryism, and I believe that in this case we have succeeded. So thank you very much. None of this would have been possible without the help of the lawyer, the manager, Laia Grau, the teams of linguists and informatics – key piece –: we find it essential in this pandemic that plagues us and in which we have really had to carry out many of the telematic sessions. A separate mention deserves all the rapporteurs, all those who provided the information from their professional point of view and whose contributions have been basic in order to be able to take this work forward. On a personal level, I would like to thank our advisor Sonia Rodriguez for her patience, vision and dedication; and Mrs Naomi De la Calle, my cicero in all this matter, her support, her mastery, her patience, her advice. Naomi, your passion for these important issues is contagious. Thank you very much. On the other hand, we can say, without any complexity, that addressing the reform gave us some reparation; some reparation, because the Law on the Right of Women to Eradicate Macho Violence was born out of a huge consensus and broad participation of both feminist associations and civil society. That's why we're trying to change only the essentials, which we thought needed an urgent update; for example, digital violence, which is exercised through the use of information and communication technologies, social networks, websites. We can say that we are also satisfied with the result, but – in politics and in a debate in plenary the buts are quite common – we regret that, once again, what we considered to be an opportunity to shield by law the units of comprehensive forensic evaluation, a struggle in which we have positioned ourselves throughout the legislature and in which we will remain committed and insisting. However, let us move on to what we see as great progress in the amendment. First, this law combats the rise of trans-phobic and exclusionary positions that deny women their identity and, therefore, a series of rights, consistent with the liberal feminism that defends Citizens, an inclusive feminism that firmly believes that equality will not be achieved by confronting citizens with outdated ideologies that seek to exclude part of society, a feminism conscious that women have not shaken the guardianship of the male to fall into the guardianship of other women who have or want to speak on his behalf, a feminism that will never yield to any pressure group that wants to speak on behalf of all women. In March 2019 and under all these premises, Citizens put the first stone in this Parliament by putting to the vote the rejection of the transphobic and exclusionary speeches that seek to exclude trans women from a series of rights. That motion was approved, even ratified, just a month ago in the Equality Commission. This law follows that path, and expressly recognizes its protection to all women – all of them – whether cisgenero, transgender, as well as non-binary people, respecting gender diversity, as expressed in the preamble, thanks to a transaction between the amendments of Esquerra, common and Citizens. In this regard, the final wording of article 1 which explicitly states that this law protects women, and therefore also transgender women, is also very important. And I want to record your motivation. And it is that the groups that we are trading the text of this article did so expressly so that no transphobic government can interpret the law at its will and decide to exclude those from its protection. Finally, the compromise we reached with regard to article 8, which corresponds to 70 of the original law, and in which we wanted to make it clear that all the measures and the recognition of rights that this law pointed out should respect gender diversity, and always from a non-pathological perspective of transgender women. We must also congratulate ourselves on having succeeded in introducing digital violence into this law. Undoubtedly, the violence exercised through social networks, the internet..., in short, the use of the network, with all the casuistic that it has and that implies, is a dramatic way of violence, for many reasons: for advertising, for permanence, for humiliation, for repetition. It is a form of violence in itself, and we have defended it. And we wanted the investigation of these violences to take very far, even to the study of the impact of non-reporting and the causes of why it does not come to denounce, since we understand that, from the management of these data, responses of the system for the protection of women raped and also for their prevention arise. Another issue that we have managed to shape, and of which we are proud, is our proposal to frame this reform in the implementation of the transcendental Istanbul Convention, ratified by Spain in 2014. We see this as essential because, first of all, it gives us an international framework that we understand basic, and because inequality between men and women, the key to violence against women, is a very serious and indisputable global problem that plagues societies all over the planet. And this vision must always be present, for violence is all, and everything is transcendent in a globalized world. We must care as much about the violence that occurs against a woman in central Barcelona as about the violence that occurs in a village against a woman in Kenya. Communion with all the women and girls on Earth gives us strength and power, which we believe is the only serious way to eradicate this type of violence. However, we also believe that we have lost opportunities. We insist that introducing all mentions to the comprehensive forensic assessment units that we had raised was basic. Catalonia is the community with the lowest percentage of protection orders granted to victims of male violence. In 2018, and according to the data of the General Council of the Judiciary, a 48_per_cent of them were granted. We are at the tail of restraining orders, among other causes because there are not enough forensic psychologists to perform them. The State Law against Gender Violence called for the implementation of the units, which are a very valuable tool to help combat the social scourge of male-based violence: multidisciplinary teams – psychologists, social workers, forensic doctors – with coordinated and specific responses, which assessed the diagnosis in a possible case of male-based violence. They are necessary to the extent that they help judges to make decisions and take action and help to provide an effective response to the situations suffered by victims. Catalonia is the only autonomous community that does not have these units implemented at one hundred_per_cent. As much as some try to say otherwise, these manifestations are also heard by some of the participants in the presentation. And we are missing another opportunity for them to fit into this law that we are changing and to make express mention so that we also shield their existence in this law and that they can be implemented. In any case, we can say that the effort has been worth it. With the changes we have introduced in the law, we believe that the women of this autonomous community will be more protected. The problem we have as a society is atrocious. As of December 3, 2020, eighty women have been murdered in Spain, and as of December 9, are the dates I manage, updated, of 2020, eight women in Catalonia. And this is the tip of the iceberg of the drama that haunts us. Because in addition to death, murder and murder, there is an endless amount of violence: sexual, economic, psychological, harming the loved ones of women or those beings that are their support, in reality, and their psychological sustenance. Because we've had thousands of years with a system in which macho violence permeated the world, there was no more. We must not forget that we have only been talking for a few years, dealing with and fighting macho violence. Because earlier, macho violence didn't even have a name, and what doesn't have a name doesn't exist. Reality is denied, when we don't even name it. The unstoppable struggle of feminism as one of the most revolutionary and fascinating movements in the history of humanity has made it possible, when we reach the twenty-first century, at last, in our society to see some progress, small steps, but the first and transcendental ones to be able to eradicate that violence that tingles with the lives of girls and women simply by being so. So the only possible commitment is to move forward in a more egalitarian society that takes up male-based violence, a flag on which we all have to commit ourselves. Millions of women are waiting for the answers of an inclusive, open, cross-cutting feminism that does not exclude men and that involves the whole of society and shares the search for equal rights and opportunities. Because feminism is equality, and that is achieved by effective policies. Many of the innovations of the law, such as the concept of institutional violence or the introduction of violence in women who have a public or political life, vicarious violence, have already been mentioned by Susanna and certainly by the other rapporteurs, but from Citizens we want to highlight two messages in which several rapporteurs have agreed. On the one hand, the need to provide policies for the eradication of sexist violence with budgets, funding, which makes it possible to really solve the problems of these women and their children and their daughters. Let us not forget this message, it has been very repeated. And, on the other hand, the need for training of all professionals involved in the network that is deployed when these cases are known. And, to conclude, I take this idea, "the cases that are known, because it introduces us into another transcendental concept: together with those cases that are known is silence, all those women who suffer from the deepest loneliness the attacks, humiliations, physical damage and so many other evils inflicted by men, in this case. But not only do they not report it, but they do not tell it to their closest loved ones. With regard to this reality, let us bear in mind that only through education can we conquer a world of equals from which we will definitely destabilize the macho violence. That fear is not an option of life for anyone, so we must all fight tirelessly against this silence. From our responsibility as parliamentarians, we must bear in mind, as the feminist philosopher Martha Nussbaum, Prince of Asturias Social Sciences Award 2012, that gender inequality is a problem of urgent social justice. So let us continue unabated on this path in defense of all women and all girls, and, with this, towards the conquest of the happiness of all and of all. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.86.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Beatriz Silva has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.87.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. The Costa Rican sociologist Montserrat Sagot, one of the people who know the phenomenon of feminicides, maintains that the passivity in the face of violence suffered by women because of being women is a way of undermining democracy, is a way of telling half of humanity that it has to conform to its situation, a situation that implies violence, which is equivalent to denying rights, is equivalent to saying to him: "Conform to your place. You have no right to be safe either in public space or in private space. It is also tantamount to sending a terrible message to the new generations that violence is a permissible and legitimate form of social behaviour rather than a scourge that must be eradicated. Today we are here to approve the reform of Law 5/2008, on the right of women to eradicate macho violence, a law that was pioneering, the result of a broad consensus among all political forces, which were able to dialogue and agree with the feminist movement in a text that recognized that gender-based violence goes far beyond that which occurs in the sphere of the couple: it is the touching of public transport, it is the vehicular messages on social networks, it is the violence that women suffer in prostitution settings, but it is also the violence that seems to us to be furthest away, such as forced marriages, female genital mutilation or the massive rape of women and girls as a weapon of war. It is difficult to translate into a law all the forms of violence that women suffer, because, as we have seen from the deputies and the deputy who has been part of this paper, it is like opening a box from which you wanted to take out just a couple of things, but they do not stop appearing other new, different, complex ones to understand, but also complex ones to address. Violence has many faces, and in the case of violence against women, it has been legitimizing itself for centuries. When ten years of this law were fulfilled, in 2018, the need was raised to incorporate aspects that had remained out, such as institutional violence and digital violence. These are two of the issues incorporated in this reform, which will allow for recognition of new situations linked to new technologies, such as cyberbullying or the dissemination of intimate images, which, with the amplifying effect of social networks, have become one of the most common ways of harming a woman. The law also incorporates institutional violence, in line with article 5 of the Istanbul Convention, which is related to the rulings in the care and protection of women and girls from the various administrations in the face of sexist violence: when a woman asks for help in a court of law and questions her testimony, when we revictimize her by repeating over and over again the details of the rape she has suffered, but also when we do not provide the means for the necessary recovery and reparation. Institutional violence against women's human rights is exercised by action, but also by omission. The Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group has tabled amendments, which have been incorporated into the opinion of the law, which state that a specific budget line will be reserved for victims of male violence, which will be calculated on the basis of the actual number of women in need of care. Why do we want this? The reports that have been submitted to the Equality Commission during this legislature show that we have a network that reaches only one_of_each_ten women who are estimated to be victims of sexist violence. This network has been expanded over the course of 2020, but it is still far from needs; we have not even doubled our attention. Several times, in this legislature, we have adopted motions calling for the deployment of Law 5/2008, on the right of women to eradicate male-based violence, which would entail the provision of a regulation and a budget. Because perhaps it would be good to remember that we are here today approving the reform of a law that in twelve years – twelve years – has not been deployed. We would like this reform to make this law a reality at last, because it serves little purpose to enshrine the right of women to live free from violence if they are then unable to access housing resources if they need to move away from their aggressor or have access to the treatment and support they need. One of the investigators who authored the reports regularly made in Catalonia on care compared their appearance between the services of care for victims of male violence and the services of garbage collection. She wondered why she never intended to stop collecting garbage every day for lack of resources and did so with the attention of women who suffered violence; why we told them that there were not enough resources and we left them waiting for weeks for legal advice or housing resources; why we are aware that garbage was collected every day and not that women needed care and recovery. The latest macro-survey of violence against women found Catalonia to be a leader in macho violence. We are in the first position in economic and psychological violence of control. But also when we measure the total violence that women suffer – physical, sexual and emotional, which has suffered 41,4_per_cent of women in Catalonia – we are the autonomous community with the highest figure. We are the second community, after the Valencian Community, where women have suffered more sexual harassment in the past year, and the third with more sexual violence – an 18_per_cent of women say they have suffered it. How is it possible that, with these figures on the table, no progress has been made in deploying the law that is the main tool for addressing this scourge? Of course, it is important to update legislation, as we are doing here today, but caring for women and allocating resources to services that are saturated is an urgent task that should be a top political priority. The Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of most of the opinion, but some amendments have been reserved, which were not accepted, because we would like to put to the vote questions from the parliamentary groups that there was no time to debate in the paper because of the lack of time imposed by the extraordinary urgency procedure. Among these amendments are three which we believe are particularly important. One of them is the'relationship with the sexual exploitation of women and girls as a form of sexist violence'. The original text considered that this concept was already included in the letter referring to trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but the written contributions we received on this issue warned us that there may be sexual exploitation without trafficking or transfer. For example, the one about the couple, the daughters or the women in the environment. In fact, they are different crimes, and we believe that this should be reflected in the law, considering the relevance of this phenomenon in Catalonia. We have also kept the amendments on prostitution and pornography alive as forms of sexist violence. We believe that ignoring that the prostitution industry feeds on women and also on girls – deceived, trafficked – who are subjected to their economic or special vulnerability situation should be reflected in this law, not only because it affects thousands and thousands of women who arrive every year in Catalonia to feed the sex industry, but because the situation to which they are subjected is of extreme violence. A recent ACC report noted how pornography is closely linked to male-based violence. According to this report, 50 per cent of pornographic content websites include rape, group rape and abuse of women and minors. Only in the forty websites analyzed by the CAC were twenty_ thousand videos of abuses and violations. It is difficult to say that this is not a form of macho violence, because, moreover, the same reports tell us that this directly influences the behavior of our adolescents and young people, who have open access to these contents from the age of ten or twelve. We have also kept alive our amendments which referred to the amendment of articles 2 and 70 of Law 5/2008, because we believe that they are more in line with the original spirit of the law, which in its article 2 stated that the subject of this legal rule is women, girls and adolescents, without labelling them. We also believe that the violence suffered by people who identify themselves as non-binaries or who do not want to relate themselves to any gender are violence that must be combated and eradicated, but through the laws of equal treatment and non-discrimination or the laws of LGBTI rights. That is what the jurists who appeared in the paper recommended, and that is why we have maintained our amendment, so that this can be deleted from the explanatory statement. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we will vote in favour of much of the opinion of this paper, which we believe incorporates important issues, such as, for example, the obligation on the part of the public authorities not to use under any circumstances the so-called parental alienation syndrome, which will be considered an institutional violence. Also in the area of institutional violence, we have incorporated amendments that form part of the opinion to ensure that forensic doctors associated with the courts on duty, on duty, have the appropriate specialization to enable them to assess the damage caused by macho violence and that this is reflected in the judgments, which is now taking place in a few cases. We would like to have been able to work with more time and delve into issues that we believe deserve more than just mention in a law of macho violence, such as, for example, the phenomenon of feminicides, the most dramatic expression of inequality between men and women. To sink into a social structure of domination that ends women's lives, and that will continue to do so until we take measures to curb it, deserved a debate and development in the law that has not been given at the moment. And I'm finishing up. Law 5/2008, on the right of women to eradicate macho violence, highlights in its explanatory statement that it was a progressive law resulting from the consensus of feminist organizations, political parties and the various departments that at the time were part of the Government of Catalonia. The women who were then part of the government always remember how the then president of the Institut Català de les Dones travelled department by department looking for the necessary consensus. Marta Selva, Carme Porta, Lourdes Muñoz, Maria de la Fuente and many others made possible an innovative and consensual progressive law, and from the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group we would like to recognize their work today. This reform has been made by the extraordinary urgency procedure, which has prevented the participation and consensus that was achieved in 2008. We believe that we should have heard and appreciated the contributions of all those who participated in the drafting of the original text, but also those who wanted to participate in this reform. In this sense, I would not like to apologize to all the people and entities who have been excluded from the process of the presentation and who have brought their discomfort in some way. We believe that the future reform of this law, or any other reform related to such a complex issue as gender-based violence, should be addressed in a different way, under the conviction that issues such as this go beyond an extraordinary urgency. Because the laws that really apply, that transform the reality and life of people, are those that are the result of social consensus and negotiation with the different parties involved – including the feminist movement. Before I finish, I would like to say goodbye and thank all the Members with whom I have had the opportunity to share this parliamentary term. Also to the staff of Parliament, especially that of my parliamentary group, who has worked against time in this presentation of the law. To Raquel Rubio, the lawyer and the manager of this paper, Mercè and Laia, and to the deputies and the deputy rapporteur of this law. I am fortunate to have been a part of this legislature and to have promoted and defended motions and resolutions on issues that are very important to me, such as the situation of single-parent families, homeless women and the most vulnerable children, issues that always seem secondary in this Chamber but which I hope will cease to be so in the next legislature. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.88.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.89.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, today we are discussing a proposal to amend Law 5/2008 on the right of women to eradicate male-based violence. It is a modification that has been processed in an express way, in a somewhat accelerated way, and it is a law, really, that has quiet, that has importance, that has transcendence. It's not a ballad theme, to eradicate violence against women. It is a subject that needs a deep participation, a greater debate, a calm reflection, in order to reach the greatest possible consensus and a law that will actually be effective afterwards, eh? The importance of this struggle, of eradicating violence against women, cannot be overshadowed by hasty legislation. But, said that, I do want to acknowledge the work that has been done by all the people who have been in this paper, especially Susanna, to that fantastic excellency who has helped us all quite a bit. And, indeed, although the time has been right, it is true that all parliamentary groups have worked intensively, also the staff of Parliament, and I think it is up to us to recognize everyone's efforts and work so that we can be here today. But let us not confuse the goal of combating and eradicating violence against women. The goal is not to reach legislation, to pass a law, but to eradicate such violence and not one more woman to be killed. That is the great goal: to eradicate violence against women. From the People's Party we want to reiterate our commitment to women who suffer violence in order to eradicate that social scourge that we unfortunately suffer in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. We must fight against silence in order to sensitize society to the damage of inequalities and violent behaviour. A coordinated institutional response is needed, working in a network with all administrations. We must make progress in improving, in assisting, in helping, in protecting women victims. It is also essential, of course, to train all the actors involved in order to provide a correct care response. The provision of more human, material and economic resources, policies that eradicate gender-based violence. The assistance and protection of minors, direct victims and also indirectly when their mothers are killed, right? Over the past two decades we have had to regret the murder of more than a thousand women – more than a thousand women. And also the murder of minors, and orphans left behind after the murder of their mothers, right? We must therefore work towards that protection of minors, of women. We must fight all, all united, this social scourge, without tolerance with the aggressor – without tolerance. We have to fight it. Today, therefore, this law, which has progressed in this area, is being introduced, and we must continue to put in place the necessary resources in order to be able decisively to combat this scourge that we suffer. That is why we ask the Government today..., the state has transferred 12,7_million_of_euros finalists against the macho violence, but, however, the budget of the Generalitat de Catalunya is left 2_million along the way and only contemplates 10,6_million_of_euros. Therefore, all finalist resources reaching this autonomous community are dedicated exclusively to eradicating gender-based violence. Legislating is important, but putting resources, putting means, is more important. Therefore, we must all be in that struggle: government, opposition and the whole of society. On the text to be put to the vote, we cannot give full support to this law. Yes to a large part, but we will not support the whole articulated. Even some of the transactions we had previously dealt with during the commission will not be supported. It's been a while. It has taken time to work, for greater participation, for greater consensus. And, therefore, that is the conclusion that we draw: there has been a lack of more space, to be able to deepen much more in this law and to continue working and raising awareness of the need to be all together against this scourge, which is gender-based violence. By way of example, we disagree with the wording of the preamble, which does not faithfully reflect what is finally developed in this law. The same is true of other articles that we do not share. On our amendments, the People's Party has tabled 50 amendments, of which one part is incorporated into the original text, others have been negotiated and some have been kept alive. In particular, we will keep alive for the 28 amendments, and today we withdraw Amendment 162 from the text. Let us therefore hope that this law will ultimately be a good instrument, that it will help and allow this fight against violence against women. We must all be in that battle. And, therefore, this is one more step, but not the only one. We must continue to work, putting resources, putting means, so that we never again have to regret the loss of any human life. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.90.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.91.0	Thank you, President, Secretary 4th. MPs, MPs, councillors, first place, aggravate, as we all did, right? , the work of all the Members of Parliament, especially Susanna, with this excellency, who is already famous. And give thanks also to the staff of the chamber and to all the companies of my parliamentary group and of the Republican Left who have given me support in this final parliamentary task. I'm starting. Because we can suffer male violence in the sphere of the pair, in the family, work, social, digital, institutional, in the field of politics, in the educational field; we can suffer it physically or psychologically; we can suffer sexual violence, obstetric rape, digital violence, vicarious violence, violence of the order. He's revictimized, he's insilence, he's murdering us. Coercions, menaces, silence, touchings, vexations, humiliations, insults, winging, mutilation, assimilation. And finally, all this discrimination, all that I've been listing, can also converge with other areas of discrimination, such as origin, social class, sexual and gender diversity, among others. Deu-n'hi-do. That's what this law says. Rebecca Solnit thinks we'd still better understand misogyny and violence against women if we contemplate the abuse of power as a whole. That we would understand it better if we didn't deal with domestic violence separately from rapes, murders or asset-taking and virtual intimidation at home, at work or on the streets. He's asking for a review in conjunction, and we think he's right. And here we are, in this Faristol, treating it as it is deserved: as a global evil. Masclist violence has always been understood by many as a private space. That rape is the responsibility you can only attribute to a man with a name and surname, or to more than one man. A murderer, a domestic psychological abuse or a rape seems to have only one guilty, a guilty sun. But the responsibility is community, it's not individual, and this conception of male violence as a private and intimate space prevented us from addressing it as it is deserved. Because masculinism goes beyond the private sphere. On this scheme of male-based violence as a community and public issue came Law 5/2008, from the right of women to eradicate male-based violence. And she pioneered precisely for this, because she did not claim that male violence was in the realm of the pair and domestic, but expanded its forms and scopes. In short, it posed on the table that the system of violence that patim les donnes is not individual, but collective, and that the way to eradicate it was not a question of survival and bravery of the women – that we always have the focus on them – but a struggle against a structural violence of the system structurally. In the background, it is not the resistance of a woman against a man or more of a man, but the resistance of a woman against a whole system. And that, quite simply, cannot be allowed. And against the system's rapes we have to resist and fight from the system, too. And that's why we're here. The change we are bringing today to debate what they want is to expand this brand, this scheme, and continue to name areas and forms, expand them and equip them with more tools for research and training in rapes. To eradicate violence, before we hear what its behavior is, and we have understood this: twelve years of this law that they follow us with this idea, that male violence is not private, but is community-based. When women move forward, patriarchy too is looking for new formulas to continue generating this gender impact, and that is why it was important to review the law twelve years later. Because in these twelve years the women we have advanced a lot, but also the patriarchal system has found new formulas to continue discriminating us. And we should, as I said, lay the law a day to continue with the task of guaranteeing rights – something as simple as this, and so revolutionary, at the same time. If the patriarchal system finds the exclusives to violate these rights, our obligation is to find new answers to guarantee them. For this reason, changes in definitions are introduced into this law, to adapt them to each other, and they are added to it, such as, for example, close diligence, which is the responsibility of public authorities to act without revictimization, or sexual consent. As Susanna said, we've eliminated the desire to talk about freedom and also to talk, right? , of this expressed will. These two concepts, due diligence and sexual consent, are two new contributions to the law, as are institutional rape, digital rape or second-order rape. And I'd like to stop for a few seconds in these two last forms, digital and second-order rape. Digital violence is a clear example of what it gave to the beginning of my intervention. Companies are moving forward, women have won rights and freedoms – I insist on this, we have to win, they are not given to us – and patriarchy finds new formulas to limit us. And digital rape, we're all on our own. In the educational sphere, which is one of the other areas that we have added to the law, it has become one of the most effective ways to coerce, silence and abuse children and adolescents. With regard to the rape of the order, I wanted to make an assessment. To legislate on this violence is to accept the premise on which we build the law and its modification: violence is structural, not individual, and therefore its reparation is community. And as a community, we must ensure that all professionals involved in the repair and follow-up of women victims of male violence are also protected by this law. With the law of rape in order what we want is not to sink into the silence that surrounds victims, that can become lethal. We also protected, as I said, the environment of victims, because it was important to do so. These days, in addition, our company Carla Vall, who was a ponència ponència, threats to accompany a victim of male violence. And this law also talks about the violence that professionals get. One of the great voids of the law, which had perhaps passed more unnoticed twelve years ago, is the sphere of politics, which we could hear..., the spaces of power – such as this – that can be institutions, political militancy or, simply, activism and public exposure of women who have a public eye and who also suffer a specific violence. Patriarchate has always turned to us in the private sphere, and, once in the public sphere, seeks a way to limit our participation. The additional cost that we must bear, that we must suffer the gifts to intervene from the spaces of power and decision of our countries is another form that the patriarchate has to make us invisible. This reform, the introduction of political parties and the political life of women, is a pioneer in the same way as the 2008 law was. It is the first time that political violence is legislated in the European sphere, and it is no less. The violence that we get from women when we actively participate in politics is a violence with an impact on society's joint venture, especially on women, because it sends a message, a message to all those women who want to intervene in the spaces of power. And that's why it was important to include this violence. And, finally, one of the key fishes of this change which I think has not been discussed in the previous interventions, which is for me the key word, which is cross-sectorality. If we understand that the fact that we are women is not the only discrimination we suffer, it helps us to understand that we are not a homogeneous group, something as simple as this. The social group does not mean that we are all the same, and therefore the rapes we suffer are conditioned for our lives, for our life experience. Incorporating intersectionality into law is making it richer and more rigorous. Discriminations add up, and they can turn male violence into a feuded violence for other discriminations we live with. We are now coming from the Law's debate against non-discrimination and equal treatment. And this law also wants to place intersectionality in its center as an input to understand that male violence, when it converges with other axes of discrimination, is amplified. And I think that, this late, this legislature passing this reform and this new law... are two phonenal fish not only from the post-pandemic life, but from the country, from Catalonia, that we want for the future. In societies based on privilege – and the patriarchal and capitalist system is – it is essential that we make a reading that starts from intersectionality. In this way, taking into account the convergence between male violence and other areas of discrimination, this wants to amplify the rights of all – of all. With cross-sectionality it is placed in the center of the debate that all of us suffer male violence, and that all of us suffer more from a violence that converges with masculinism. So, in these rights, we lock in children and adolescents. This is also a law that talks about the seas. It is a law that speaks of women who have migrated, of women who are racialized, of women of various origins, of women with functional diversity, of women who are poor, of women who are in irregular administrative situations, of women who are gypsies, of women who dress as they please, of women who are sex workers, of women who are mutilated, of women who are forced to marry against their will, of women who want to be respected, of women who want to abort, of women who are unborn, of women who want to denounce, of those who do not want to do so – and also of women who want to protect – from the press, from the lesbians, from the single parents, from the lawyers and professionals, as well as from those who do not want to do so – and also from those who want to protect – from the press, from the lesbians, from the single parents, from the lawyers and professionals, of whom they want to denounce, from those who do not want to do so – and we want to protect them – from the women who, from the lesbians, from the single parents, from the families, from the lawyers and from the professional families, as well as well as they do not see, from the people, from the people, from the people, from the people who are not responsible. And now that we're through with this legislature and we're through with another one, I hope that this, this biax that the institutions have, goes from little to little. And I don't want to finish this list of diversity of women, intersecting, without taking a break. Because this law wants to guarantee the rights of those to whom they want to take the truth of their lives. This law also went to children, adolescents and trans women, with or without hormones, with or without surgery, of course, without psychiatric reports. They are recognized fundamental rights for the WHO, the Council of Europe, the Cedaw and the Constitutional Court, which would say that it is not part of the Queer lobby; the Constitutional Court also said so. Therefore, with the mention of registered sex as a woman or not, with the documentation or not, adolescents, children and women also receive male violence, and this is why she speaks exclusively, in a specific way, of them. Girls, women, trans teens, companies, not just Law 11/2014, this is also your law. Eliminating male violence was a right that you had before this change, but now there is no doubt. And with tomorrow's vote on points 2.2 and 70, the Catalonian Parliament is continuing with its commitment to depathologizing trans people, guaranteeing rights and gender self-determination. We owe it to you. We fought because this law, which is a law that wants to guarantee rights, the rights of all, do not invisibly. We'll say your name where it's put in doubt, because we're only there if we're all there. Audrey Lord said: "I will not be a free woman while there are submissive women, even when their chains are very different from mine. And that's what many of us have come to do in this room. Regardless of who are the chains that subdue us, until we follow all the free... only that I remain a submissive woman, we are not free women. This modification – and with this I finish – changes the definition of male violence, too. It is simply a violation of human rights. And that's why it's a law for everyone, because we've got our lives. And today, which twenty-three years ago from the murder of Ana Orantes, this law also goes for her. The obvious number one thousand of this campaign of the Generalitat is that women, companies, families of minor trans..., you have right to have rights. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.92.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, has the word, now, Mrs Anna Geli. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.93.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Good afternoon to all the people who follow us through the digital media from their homes. I'll do my intervention in orange and I'll do it again to claim it. In the same way that we women have to claim constantly in a world of men, the Aranese claim to be women of the mountains and therefore also to speak Arabic. And I want to quote the Occitanist Olimpia de Gouges, who wrote in 1789 the Declaration of the Rights of Women and Citizens as a reaction to the Declaration of Men and Citizens. Olimpia, by the way, was guillotined for her writings, to denounce the inferiority that she constantly gives her. Tomorrow, all parliamentary groups approved this amendment of Law 5/2008, deth right of the hemnes to eradicate was male rape. Twelve years later he had his initial approval, it was male rape that changed into so-called forms and so-called recesses. Er Abus deth male power assassinates thousands of millions of vines of hemnes, mainades and teenagers, every day, every hour and in every horn deth mon. He is sure that we have changed the beer contained so far that you can guarantee that it was a society that follows a woman's month and a woman's month. I'm going to take a while, though, to work for a while. If you'll allow me, and before I enter into detail of this law, I'd like to break down as we begin this legislature is caves that we give supreme to the Government. We are starting parliamentary work from a government of dreets in Madrid that maintains action eth 155 in everything to make it difficult to start this parliamentary activity. An initiative of the legislature to which the fundamental rights of three investitures have been violated by the presidency of the failed Generalitat. In my last repression and now Covid, we have experienced the incapacity of the President deth Torra, while in Parliament there have been refusals of commissions of investigation by part of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is a constant attack now on our legitimate work as representatives and representatives of the people of Catalonia and as a result of professional dictatorships that are not democratic absolutities. A repression which has not stopped, and which follows on from the most progressive government of history, which counts for more than three thousand reprisals, and which follows on from the presidency and political exiles which bear half the time in prison from the Government of Querres than from the Government of Drets. And you're wondering why I started this intervention all day long if we want to talk about male rape. So love that you never have a right can extrapolate from a right aut. It's straight up to the stage, it's some auts. It's right if they all defend themselves in parion form, we can't defend a right to it and not a right to it. That's why the important plan to defend the right eth of self-determination, the right eth now freedom of expression or the right eth of the three to eradicate was male-based rape, even though you tell me that they can't be compared. His rights, human rights, social or political, all his rights, and so why defend them all. It was now drafting a modification of the law to the state of parliamentary vorage. He was willing and in the state, but that doesn't guarantee that it was still better than we could have done. At the same time, I will make amends to the Members of the House of Representatives, Susana Segovia, who led her today, and so on to Bea Silva, Jenn Diaz, Naomi of the Street, Natalia Sánchez and Tanben to Manu Reyes, and so on to make amends and work that once she was a lawyer Mercè Arderiu as now manager, Laia Grau, and to all was a rest of the services of the Parliament. And then I'll apologize. He apologizes to all those people or entities who did not have enough time to participate in these ponies and who, surely, are in a position to delay, delay, and even smoke in future amendments to this law, during the pre-legislative term. The announcements that we were abstaining from voting in the preamble, precisely because of what has already been said, that we missed time and spent a month of consent before we were able to work more and better. As an example, in the preamble we talk about non-binarial people in all the articulated words that we don't appear to be enslaved. In Article 70 the reference to gender diversity is not yet completed. Then we missed his call for a month. Recognise that we missed the debate as much as possible. And that we could have arrived at my consent for a while, and that was the time that was. Our cause is to be sincere and to accept that we did not have an agreement or broad participation that she was a pioneer in 2008, as we all recognized. It was my milestone in today's year, in the sound of the great hemnaes, that was to feed part of them are vulnerable and that they are now to be brought to life without resorts and soles, alone force, less of your life there then served souls and hils and daughters. At the same time, and thanks now to the tanben het analysis for the Catalan Institute of Hemna, to whom I will make special note, the Catalan Institute, peth are supreme and and advice tanben, now his presidency, now President Laura Martínez, to Montse Morante, Núria Ribas, tanben to Núria Ramon and tanben for supposed now council, because this is the last thing we need on the politics of the hemnes. As didia, des der instituto, e tanben a trauès deth Conselh National of Hemnes de Catalonha, which you have dropped to a number of hundred entities, it is urgent to modify and update it today, and act in a commission of equality of persons and force days later, and from here, from here, with a text of the commons, which has been extensively modified, caus dedider, Susanna, we have allowed to arrive at bari consensi; important consciousness now of redefined concepts removed from it was a violation exercised against the hemnes. Certainly, it is near then to enter was a proposal of the law for extraordinary urgency already defined by which way we have arrived still here. When we speak of the hemnes – and this is already true – I mean, we refer to Tanben from Junts, the hemnes, the manades and trans teenagers. It's logical that you're trans, it's logical, that the agency showed, and now you're refuting the definition that is made in the law of the end of 2008. And tell me that it makes sense to love that in Article 70, an article approved at the age of twelve, is pathologized all the time, and it is completely protected. So he said that in this measure, it was the law of December 2014, so, inability of article 70, which we gave, it would be the law of December 2008. In so far as such an update of the concepts will be made by the law of late 2008, it is necessary to introduce final definitions which are not included in 2008, such as, for example, the concept of institutional violation. Before they are defined and described, these concepts, for which I will not describe them, as I will quote them. Apareishen conceptes, like dididem, victimization secondarily or revictimization, acute diligence, intersectionality or intersection of oppressions; tanben apareish was a digital violation, it was a violation of dusau order, it was a vicarious violation, a violation in a political frame or an educational frame, that is, of the proposals that we, then, love to deal with in bold fines that are carried on her. There are also other definitions or redefinitions already in existence in this law, such as the lagoons of this psychological rape or rape in the family frame, rape in the frame of this same eth known as sexual consent, one of the points to which I am going to receive a sheath of attention. Seconds was the European Agency for Fundamental Rights of Masclist Violence in Europa, that of every twenty weeks older than fifteen years has been violated. Repeat, that's every twenty hemnes. And, from a hotel, it was WHO that qualified it was male rape as a global health problem of dimensions and epidemic proportions. It was male rape and that pandemic with millions of dead women in the hands of men and where, in the eyes of thirty a European state, in its legislation, appear eth conceived of a violation based on consent. Dilhéu didn't have to do it, for a month, to go from a long time for babies, and that's without permission or violation. That is why we have introduced the concept of "expressed will." I can't go back to what happened to Manada, or what happens when they take advantage of your week, when they take advantage of us. In the course of the debates, he has already evinced himself, and it is a question of whether he has violated his digits, but it is a frame – in Catalan, "ambit" – or what form. We believe that definitions of "encapsulation and form of rapes have not been well defined by lack of consensus. At the same time, we wanted to keep a digital violation in a box because we believe that it is carried out in different forms; indeed, for example, this cyberassembly, it was a surplantation or annihilation of identity, and it was a password hack, it was a sextorsion or a grooming. It's a consequence that he was a patient in abhorrent violence that ended up in all psychological or economic aspects– for example, eth hèt de « hacking into a web where and age was your online botiga. It was my intervention that was already over, and before I had finished giving you..., and before I had given you a warning to all of you and all of you, I gave you all credit to the workers, advisors of this cramp, and to be glad it was an opportunity to express myself in spiders and to defend it was Val and eth Pirenéu. This would not happen to me, for example, in the Congress of Deputies, in Madrid, which may also express you in Catalan. Totun, and at the end of it, I will point out that the current state legislature was mostly female. We got a lot of weeks, a monograph of women with different resolutions, a plan of equality and gender equity in Parliament and also a bureau of equality in Parliament, and finally it was also approval, surely – think, Susanna –, and of all eth consent, so, of august modification, of some articles Law of the weeks to eradicate it was male violation. And like all of this political person and people who defend extreme right-wing politics, you know, who train for a strike, who train for a fight, who train for a fight, who are right-wing women will jump for side ends and they will be heard in an absolute and disembodied way, and they will be united in full equality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.94.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to fix its position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, Mrs Susanna Segovia. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.95.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I wanted to start my intervention by saying hello to the Munia, which I left before, when I made the list of Members of the House of Commons – I'm sorry – and, somehow, I also made reference to the excellent fame, the excellent fame that has been made thanks to the technical support of a person who helped me during the whole process of the law. I think it is also important to make visible, as some groups have already done, those supports that many times we have Members and Members in order to be able to do the work we do, and that in the case of a group like ours, of eight Members and Members, it would be absolutely impossible for us to do what we do without this support from the technical team, and I would like to recognize that, too. Finally, yes, we have arrived: we approve this law before the end of the legislature. We recognize all that we have enjoyed doing it with more debate. In fact, when we introduced the initiative a year ago, it was to be able to do it with more debate. It is also true that the pandemic came, that this ended for four months practically parliamentary proceedings – for a long time – and that, in the end, it came to the end of the parliamentary term and made this end absolved. But why do we also vote for it and approve it, despite some of the comments that have been made, about what would be much more debated, and what is true? So why do we think it's an advance in women's rights and we want it to be now; we don't want it to wait any longer and we don't want to wait for what will happen in our own legislature. And I think I can say that we end this legislature by protecting and advancing in the protection of women victims of male violence is something that must be a source of pride for all Members and Members of this chamber. Everyone here I think knows that male violence is growing and that it's structural, and that it's growing in all spheres of life, and it's called the patriarchal system. The deputy of the People's Party said that the object of the laws must not be the laws themselves, obviously; it must be the eradication of the chakra of masculist violence, of the pandemic of masculist violence. Well, I believe that the vice president of the National Council of the Dones of Catalonia, Montse Pineda, in the Parliament of the Dones, gave us the reception: if we want to end masculinist rapes and gender inequality, we must abolish patriarchy. And this is the job that we all have and that feminist movement has been putting on the table for a long time. Therefore, what we do with this law is really taking steps to strengthen and expand the law against masculinist rapes that was approved in 2008, with all this process that we gave, of participation, that – we remember – was a process led by the government. And, in this sense, I believe that we should also place the present government and the one that comes after the 14th of February..., that we should make this reflection on the law against masculinist rapes, and that we should surely review this more extensively, but above all it should be the law's deployment. Call the law's deployment and call the law's resources. Because, in the reports of the two years of the law's deployment, what he told us everyone is that the attention network for women victims of male violence does not give the abst, which is not guaranteeing attention to women victims. Therefore, the great challenge, after the approval of this law, is that this law passes the pilot to the roof of this government, and of the government that comes after, because I dedicate the necessary resources to it, because we strengthen the network of attention to the victims and above all because we stop precharging the organizations and entities that work in the first line of attention to the victims of violence, which also have brought us to this Parliament their complaints about the situation of precariousness and temporaryity in which they are living. Women, for the sake of being women, suffer male violence. That's it. But it's also true that not all women suffer from masculinist rapes the same way, and one of the members of the Republican Group was already commenting: we're not all in the same situation and not all of us are crossing the same lines of oppression and privilege. Therefore, attention to victims of male violence needs to be recognized and given this diversity. If we do not observe diversity by reason of origin, by reason of administrative situation, by reason of whether they are seas or not seas, by reason of their economic precariousness, wage work, sexual orientation, gender identity..., if we do not observe this diversity in the attention to victims of male violence, we are not following them well. And this is one of the great changes that this law brings. I have very little time left for everything I had to say, but I also did not want to stop talking, effectively, that the one who sure doesn't help to guarantee the rights of women is the false debates. And it's a false debate to say that the inclusion of trans women as victims of male violence harms the rest of the women. It's a fake debate, and it's a fake debate that can't be donated. The trans women suffer male violence because they are women, because there are relationships of genera power that affect them as women. And taking away this guardianship and this pathology that there was so far is a duty that we also have as citizens and as parliamentary groups that want to defend the rights of all women to eradicate male violence, as well as trans women. We finish this legislature with a law that I think is an adventure. Let's start by calling for the completion of this law, Law 5/2008, and the resources needed to address, in fact, the victims of male violence. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.96.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the paragraph of the MP Natalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.97.0	"There is no time left, " said some Member; "I will have no time, because I have two minutes and a half. And it is also time for a parliamentary group of four Members, and for the management and the press for so many different laws that we have to support. In this sense, the CUP, for which we have chosen, as we have done many other times in some commissions, is to generate a space of trust. Therefore, in this sense, the first one I want to give you is thanks to all the speakers that you have made possible the modification of this law. Necessary modifications; with the little time I have, I will not go in to list them, which you did before I and very well. And I just wanted to add a few points. Before anyone said or said or used to say, not only in this plenary, that male violence is a shacra. From our perspective, it's not a sacra; it's all a system, it's all a system that carries living and adapting milestones. Therefore, we can already announce today that this will not be the last modification of this law. Because patriarchy, if it has one thing, in alliance with capitalism and in alliance with racism, is that it adapts and seeks new forms, we are surrounded and we are types of rapes. Therefore, this law must be a law constantly alive until we eradicate this system, which is not a shacra, but it is an economic and social structure that it does allow there to be some that have more privileges than others. This law... in some questions, we consider that sometimes from the institutions it is not at the root of the problem, that they are looking for some hints to deal with the consequences of these masculinist rapes. But I also think it should be recognized that in some of the modifications, especially those that refer to the recognition of trans women as victims of male violence, go to the issue and have also made this happen. And, therefore, in this sense, also congratulate you and congratulate us. I just said..., making a small change to that old phrase: "If a woman moves forward, she doesn't go back. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.98.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, as the government has called for a further intervention, I give the word to the Presidency Councillor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.99.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, just a few words to thank the work done by all MPs who have worked on amending this law, as well as all the entities and experts who have accompanied you in this work. Thank you, Congresswoman Segovia, too, for the impulse. I think it's fair to recognize it, and therefore, I want to do it here on behalf of the Government of Catalonia. A vital law for all the women of our country and for the struggle against male violence, which, after two years of the previous law's existence, must be brought to light. And I want to put in value that if you do years, so, you've already got this big consensus, your change was also the result of a big consensus, a great job that all the Members of this House have done. I think that ending this legislature with this law and this consensus must make us proud of the work we do every day. It was this job and it was this consensus. It used to incorporate male-violation environments – such as digital, institutional, etc. – or to contemplate and protect second-degree violence victims. And these are just some of the examples of the need to modify this law. I'm done. Just reiterate my congratulations on behalf of the Government of Catalonia to all Members and my commitment to continue working as a politician and as a woman to eradicate male violence in all its forms in our society. Thank you very much for all your hard work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.100.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the industrial crisis]] [[302-00273/12]] After this debate, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the twenty-five, which is the Movement following the Government's inquiry into the industrial crisis, presented by the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward. To expose her, has the word Mr Pol Gibert. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.101.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies that you are today at this plenary session of Parliament. Today we present a motion on the industrial crisis, after our group made an inquiry to Councillor Tremosa, who apologized for not being here, because there is a meeting that seems urgent for the issue of the Procicat, with which he apologized for not being in this debate on the industrial issue. But it is true that while these last fifteen days have passed to our country, there has been a clear trace or image, a clear example, of what these days are going on in our country with the industrial issue. And it's that while we've had..., between the debate we had fifteen days ago and this day's movement we've already lost businesses that have had to close or that have arranged their shutdown on a proper calendar, with which, therefore, we still demand more immediate action by this Parliament and this Government on how we deal with the industrial crisis that our country sees. And it's that the first point of the motion we're putting to the vote today is that the one we're living today is drinking from a long tradition of detail on the industrial stakes in this country. Of course, details in the presupposition, which has for years clearly lost resources and which has reduced by 30_per_cent the investment we have made in industrial matters, and, therefore, this is what our product texture feels like at a time of major crisis. And it is also costing much more to transform to adapt to the current context, of rapid digital and also ecological change. The second point that this young man brings, obviously, and cannot be otherwise, is the support for the demands of workers who are defended today many places in this country, little of their factory, their place of work; the defense, still, of their place of work in many places, as the ugly ones mentioned earlier. In the third point we are referring to is how we solve this problem that we have today on the table, and to which, obviously, we have to address the industrial investment deficit in the last two years, and this we have to start doing now. And this is done with a proposal that, obviously, has its ambition, has its magnitude, because, obviously, it has already been recognised as the only way to solve this problem, that it is endowed with 1,000_million euros over the next four years– 250_million euros, more or less, per year– to try to recover this momentum that industry has in our country and to transform and adapt it, especially in areas such as automotive, its digital environment, artificial intelligence, biotechnology or industry 4.0, among many others, that can be capdavantary sectors if we obviously have public resources that foster this transformation towards the new paradigm that we are working on. And, obviously, this cannot only be done for innovation resources; we also need to do so for training and the better job of workers to cope with this crisis. We have a lot of workers who carry industry many years and who, if we do not accompany them in this transformation, in this change in their working life, can stay for the road. And we don't want this to be an unfair transition; we want it to be fair, we want it to be accompanied by this change in the labour market that is also linked to the industry, and we want it to be able to acquire new skills that are obviously lacking at this time. And that's why we present point 5, which is how we try to increase the professional accreditation that these workers have so that they can consolidate their experience also with a title that is official, and so that they can believe that they are trained workers in the industry for a long time and can go to the search for a job place with this official title. And, of course, point 7, which refers to how we implement a digital enabler scheme because it allows workers who are affected in these sectors in which the digital environment is very hard hit and who, if they do not have this skill, will be very hard to keep up with on the job market. We want no one to stand in the way of this industrial crisis. And that I have the knowledge and follow-up that is needed by the Administration to avoid these negative consequences of this transformation that we are living on the job market. So you see that there are points 8 and 9, that are two points referring to the territorial scope of this industrial crisis, which we also know well in this Parliament. The first refers to developing concrete rock plans to territories that are particularly affected by this industrial crisis, such as Penedès, Anoia or Ebre. And there are also others – many others – who are also painted on these days, but these are territories that, for their case, are living especially in this industrial crisis, and that also pay attention to it and make plans of shoc adapted to these territories and to their particular case. And also, obviously, the Conca d'Odena, which is developing its urban and economic plan, and it is also necessary, therefore, to promote this recognition also from the Parliament. Last but not least, this Member did not want to take up this parliamentary term without mentioning a subject which five years ago defended from this Faristol and from which he saw nothing, in order to be generous with the attitude of the Government, which is the outpost of the Martorell Vocational Training Centre, which, in five years that we are wearing in this Parliament, we have not seen that you are outposted and that you are an empty building, just as you were five years ago, and therefore is the symbol of the inaction of the fait accompli. An empty building that cost 18_million euros, that could form fourteen_ thousand workers every year and that is not training practically no, with which thing... With this symbol is left this Member, who I hope will be the symbol of an era that will change soon so that we can see this full center of formation, of trained workers, and that they can be occupied quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.102.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, and to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.103.0	Yes; President, thank you very much. From Catalonia to Comú We can give support to the assembly of the young man, who, moreover, points out, surely, one of the challenges we have with the country, which is obviously the industrial crisis, right? Jo, in the first place, I'd like to take a look at the first point, wouldn't I? , which situates this decade... We also speak of a decade lost in many policies by the Government of the Generality, especially in economic policies; also in policies, for example, social, and also, I believe, in industrial policy. That's to say, I think it's a lost decade that... plus, even the whole government has or has had a lot of difficulty explaining to us what is the degree of completion of the National Pact for Industry, which I think is quite surprising. That is to say, many times, even when we have spoken to the Government with the will to make proposals in good faith, it is difficult or difficult, on the part of the Department of Enterprise, in this case, to explain what is the degree of accomplishment, what objectives have been met, what is not, and where can we allocate more resources, right? And this lost decade and this one I would also say..., I don't know if it inacts or lacks political priority..., for us it has reached, say, a final conclusion, that it is this cessation of the Council of Enterprise for, purely, political reasons, immigrating from an industrial crisis and an economic crisis, simply because it did not want to approve a law of chambers with which the social agents did not agree or, in short, also because it was not of the party of President Torra, or it was until one day before and after, the next day, it was not. I think it expresses very well what is the priority of the current government. It is to say, first the party and the battles within the same government, and after the industrial crisis, the situation of the industrial sector in Catalonia. And I think it's inexplicable, what happened, right? We have made two clearly constructive proposals. We are pleased that the proposed group has accepted them. I'm sure they haven't been an oblit voluntari, but I think they're two fundamental elements if I can face this industrial crisis in Catalonia. In the first place, all you have to see with the just ecological transition. That is to say, if we really want to preserve our industrial fabric, if we really want to keep the jobs that have a high value added, because, more than that, they are usually jobs with a lot of economic conditions over or better than other economic sectors, if we compare it, for example, with other sectors that have a significant impact on GDP, such as, for example, the tourism sector..., or so, it is very successful, preserving our industry, but I would like to prepare it for the ecological transition in a climate-emergency context. We have the feeling that the Government of the Generality is not doing its dues, in this sense. And, therefore, if we do not want this industrial crisis to escalate, we must try all that there is a plan. We're always complaining to the generality that you're standing on top of the table... what plans and what advances, and so this is a phonetic element, right? And one element that we also believe is indestriable to try to put an end to this industrial crisis is what has to do with the ongoing labour reform. We, in fact, when we talk to some companies that are about to shut down or that have difficulties – for example, we talk to Nobel Plastics, to Sant Joan Despí, we talk to the Nissan workers, we also talked to them, for example, recently, also to Montcada, to TE Connectivity – what explains to us is that with the current labour legislation at hand the companies have more instruments to be able to produce these industrial enclosures, which then have a very important impact not only in the context of Catalonia, but also in certain populations. And, for example, I want to highlight also strongly Montcada, which is having, in this case, very big impacts for the repeated shutdown of companies. I believe that it is a good thing that, at a time like the present, there has been a debate on this at the Congress of Deputies, so the Parliament of Catalonia is referring, in this case, to the will to end the 2012 labour reform, which is confirmed in the compromise of the pact of government of United Podemos and the Socialist Party. We will move this proposal to the Minister of Treball, to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz. I am sure that the Socialist Party will also do so, to Mrs Nadia Calviño and Mrs Montero. And, well, at any rate, I understand now that there aren't just a few of us, but I think that now the cabos and cabos will be the whole Parliament of Catalonia, and so I hope and so I wish, because I think it's a good way to finish the legislature, so, voting in favour of completing the labour reform, and I'm glad that the Socialist Party of Catalonia supports it, and I hope that you do it in the government of the State as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.104.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Ferran Roquer. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.105.0	Thank you, President. Apologize to Councillor Tremosa, who is summoned to a meeting a few hours ago and could not be here, and it seems to me that Deputy Gilbert has already said so, too. We are mostly in agreement with the full text of your motion. Now, I want to make some considerations; above all, a couple. You say: "The Catalonian Parliament notes the lack of will and political action of the Government of the Generality to prevent the closure of businesses and the destruction of jobs. Then it talks about 1,000_millions for digital transformation, automotive, industry 4.0, etc. In the political crisis there is almost everything; but, oysters, seriously, do you believe that the Government of the Generalitat does not want to avoid the closure of companies? Do you know what condition the government of the generality has to make the assumptions of the last two years? Do you know what happened to Catalonia's Spanish government? Do you know the investment deficit that Catalonia has suffered? I know. Do you know the level of implementation of the assumptions that Catalonia has suffered? You know that. You know that this affects income and wealth and the conjunction of wealth. So you know what is the endemic and fiscal deficit that this country has, a terrible fiscal deficit, which in thirty-five minutes will have represented 1,065,000_euros. And I think it's a little unfair for me to say that the government doesn't want to. Moreover, it would be good if there was a regulation to regulate the closure of business activities; but who has the skills to regulate it? Who can regulate labour reforms? Who can regulate the limits of accompaniments, compensations? Who can regulate this? Of course, all of our support for workers' demands in defense of their jobs. There was also a new article, the 2a, of a transaction with the group of commons, and there was also a Republican Group theme in this sense. Home, that's good... we'll vote for it, huh? , us. It's good to talk here, but in Madrid you're in line with the most progressive government in the history of humanity and you're giving them parliamentary support. In fact, they must be the preferred partners they have there in Madrid. So they could talk about it there, and they'll fix it and it's gone. All the way, we give them support from here, we give them morals. So, we'll also give them support on the rock board that they ask for for the region of Anoia, for the regions of the Ebro and for the region of Penedès. They must be reindustrialised; they must be reindustrialised. Just as the whole country needs to be re-industrialised, or industrialised. And, look, I think the theme presented by the Republican Group substantially improves paragraph 8 of its motion. And now I've described a region to them, and then I'll tell them what region it is. These are data from the Labour and Product Model Observers, the synthetic regional index, which regulates aspects of occupation, unemployment, income, and development. It's the region thirty-two in forty-two. For what makes the contribution of the gross value added of the industry, 11_per_cent; midjana de Catalunya, more than 20_per_cent. Commarca forty-two in gross family income available per capita: 13.100_euros respect the disset_mil of the midjana of Catalonia. Commarca thirty-seven of forty-two in the registration rate: 12,6_per_cent– data of the year 2020 –, two points higher than the midjana of Catalonia. Forty-two of forty-two people at the time registered with only until primary school. The 31,8_percent of the people in this region have only made up to primary studies; this given Catalonia is 13,2_per_cent. The region forty forty-two young people recorded: 17,7 against 15_per_cent of Catalonia. Do you know what region this is? It's the Empordà, the High Empordà. If you look at the Baix Empordà, if you look at the Segria, etcetera, you see that the data are similar. The whole country must therefore be industrialised. And I think that industrialization and industrial processes should be one of those great country pacts in which we are all agreed, regardless of whether we are in opposition or whether we are in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.106.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Albert has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.107.0	Thank you, President, Secretary-General of the Bureau. MPs, MPs, in Roquer, I may be disappointed when I go out to the Faristol. [[Rialles.]] Well, we have one final proposal that respects the country's industrial policy and that respects the industrial crisis that we have experienced in the first person many of the Members and Members who carry the themes of work, that we have already been in the territory accompanying many committees of enterprise that were in labor conflict, workers and workers who were defending their places of work. And, therefore, since the first day..., it seems to me that the first meeting that I held in this Parliament I feel as a deputy in this legislature was precisely with a business committee that suffers a labor dispute; in concrete terms, they were closing their plant because they moved it to one of the Eastern countries, and that was a general tonic. A general tonic that, moreover, has been marked by different aspects. And it's not one of them, the most uplifting... if not, the one that points to the Socialist Party's motion. One of the most salient aspects – and, in fact, it was the first point that all of us stood out from each of the business committees with which we met – was: 2010-2012 labor reforms, reducing the costs of accommodation – to take on the Spanish State is very easy, so easy that we don't have any tools to fight it –, relocation, loss of jobs, loss of purchasing power and future impact on pensions. This is the scenario, a future scene that we also have the responsibility to change: immediate repeal of labor reforms, immediate modification of articles 42, 43 and 51 of the Staff Regulations. In fact, with the companies and companies of the CUP we have prepared a joint text, precisely, for, through this Parliament, and in application also of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, which allows us to make legislative proposals for implementation in the Congress of Deputies, therefore, amend articles 42, 43 and 51 of the Staff Regulations. Finally, the CUP presented this text for a single reading process, and we, the Republican Group, from the Republican Left, presented this text by urgent processing. Unfortunately, the legislature is final, but it seems to me that, unfortunately, too, we have not had the necessary support as if we could have pushed it from our Parliament. But we didn't just have parliamentary activity here, Mr. Roquer; we also had parliamentary activity at the Congress of Deputies. We have also tabled a non-law proposal to call for the repeal of labour reforms and also for the precise modification of this Article 51, which affects the objective causes of collective bargaining, and therefore the recovery of the prior administrative authority by the labour authority. That's what we did, and we did it in the Congress of Deputies. I remember that there are some of you who do not want to remember now, but that they are their political heritage, who voted in favour of labour reform in 2012. [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of the 2012 labour reform. Together, not together... But in any case, I remembered what symbols defended you, Mr. Roquer, at that time: defending them from the same group that voted in favour of labor reform in 2012. In any case, there are other questions that are also relevant, and before I run out of time I also want to make a direct reference. One, the new point of his motion, which refers to the Pla urbanist director of economic activity to the Conca d'Odena. In this case, in the terms in which it is written we agree, but we also want to make some points. This urban master plan must meet certain requirements, because what we do not want is for this urban master plan to respond to the idea of trinxing the territory in order to convert this division into industrial polygons, into logistic polygons, which do not generate work places. We want an urban master plan that doesn't cut the territory, that generates skilled jobs places with decent wages, and not well-functioning jobs places in logistics, in logistics warehouses. Catalonia must not be the magatzem of Europe. Catalonia must be the engine of Europe's digital economy, the engine of Europe's economic and social fabric and development. Therefore, this is a direct appreciation that we want to make of this point 9. But two more too. Secondly, economic and social development, yes, but also always in agreement with the territory, always in agreement with the municipalities, always in agreement with the citizens, with the people who live in these municipalities. And, therefore, always agree with these joints [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , that they must also be responsible for this plan urbanist director. I, finally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.108.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.109.0	...and as I see that there has been the general tonics this past week of ple, to welcome me from all of you, from the workers and workers of Parliament, whom I have greeted in each of my interventions. Every time I pop into this cliff, so I want to remember the excellent task they're doing so that all of us can be sure of our escons. And, therefore, without them there would be no possibility of doing our job. And finally, also thank you for all the work you've done, deputies and deputies. I hope that many of you can continue in your own legislature. And if they can't go on, we still see each other, I don't know if they're on the street or in other places, but I hope we're still in the fight. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.110.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Martí Pachamé. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.111.0	President, Members, Members... First of all, I would like to thank Deputy Pol Gibert for the opportunity to defend some of the points of the motion that they present today, and that have been a thread in many of the motions and motions for resolutions that have presented themselves both to the plenary and to the committees in which I have agreed with him. Many of the points that this young man deals with we have defended on many occasions during this legislature. And I have to say that even though there may be discrepancies between our positions, I think I can say that we have agreed, in the background, in many of them. Here's the obstacle: still agree on the background of many of the questions that are being brought here, I'll also tell you that this young man, given the moment he is present and is debatable, and the recourse that he can get to have, tea, in the best of the senses of the words, all the « meant to be a purely electoralist motion. A few comments to your young lady. Totally in agreement with the responsibility of the Government in the current situation of the industry of Catalonia. We will not fail to remember that identity policies and that they pose in peril legal certainty make the investment capital run away. And, as much as he demonizes himself, without him it is impossible for him to grow, to work and to be blessed. The government – and only to see what it is about the assumptions – has other interests, all of them removed from what is really important for the citizenry: the reversal, the creation of places of work and the maintenance of the welfare state. With regard to his proposal to allocate EUR 1,000 million to industrial policies, well, various considerations. I wouldn't want to go too far in teaching, however, given that I have spent more than 20 years in investment and more than two years in finance teaching – as the scorpion said to the grain: "I can't help but avoid, it's my natural one–, sifting in 1,000_millions investments in industrial policies generates a first question: why a thousand? And a second and a third, right? Is that too much? Is it pac? Could there have been more? Could they have been less? It's something that... well. Obviously, respect for the current situation is a lot, and it would certainly mean an important boost to our economy, for which we can include accepting the quantity without other considerations. But, of course, immediately I get the experience of the scorpion, and I ask myself, "Where will these 1,000_million come from?" How will this project be financed? Coming from you, I think I can imagine it: either debt or taxes. And this is where we could find the difficulties in accepting your proposal. If I were to say that these amounts would be out of the question to give proper priority to spending on the assumptions or that they would facilitate the arrival of investments by, for example, making everything contrary to the present Government, or by implementing measures to facilitate that our territory would be another place where there would be no doubt about the legal security of investments and that, in the end, there would be a place where companies would want to come to install their own and not run away as it is now, or that they would not be penalised fiscally, that would be more in line with what we are proposing and would allow this funding to come from an intense public-private collaboration. In the same way that we do not doubt that it is good and necessary to invest 1,000_million in strategic industrial sectors, nor do we doubt the good intentions proposing to invest 25_million in formation, and, thanks to the linguistic correction, the better of the occupation. Even though, another time, we put the emphasis on getting these money out. The other point I would like to highlight is that of the Vocational Training Centre, which, in a few words, is an authentic scandal. You know that since our group, too, we have tried – for the moment, unsuccessfully – that the giant nyap of management of the government on this particular issue has a viable solution and as soon as better. This government has been incompetent, has made a passive misappropriation of a huge amount of monetary capital, and, worse, intellectual, and has prevented the accurate formation of thousands of students not just Catalans, but the world's arsenal, since this centre was to be a focus of international talent in its day. Incloure – and I'm hard to say – this point to the young man, adding at the cost of 18_million euros, euros that have come out of the pocket of all Catalans, means that the hottest hour is at the water and that the coming course will be the same as this one. And that's supposed to embarrass the councilman's face. So, I will take advantage of my later intervention in this Parliament, in its plenary, to welcome all of you, to thank my help and understanding for my little parliamentary expertise to all Members of Parliament, to all the legal, technical and administrative staff. And, also, as in the last political act of my first legislature, ask for the first time, and knowing that you only have, unfortunately, a witness character, the resignation of Councillor El Homrani. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.112.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word, now, the deputy lady Natalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.113.0	Nice late again. It is said from the outset that our vote will be affirmed to most of the points that form part of the motion that we are now debating. But before we explain why we would abstain at one point and vote against another, we would like to make three general considerations. First, the industrial crisis found two origins: forty years in those who did not want to pursue a policy of their own in relation to industry and in those where administrations were correct in transmitting the models of large enterprises. The deputy of Juntes for Catalonia makes reference to the region of the Alt Empordà. The political responsibilities of the situation of the poor and of the socioeconomic and labor needs of the region of the High Empordad are also theirs. The second question: the Spanish State's contribution to the European Economic Community meant that certain industrial sectors were limited and that public enterprises were reduced to a minimum. The third: that we have labour regulations on which to take in is easy and low cost has facilitated a process of permanent business and relocations, incentivised to low demand, but also exist until and when there has been economic growth. That said, we'll explain why we'll abstain from the point that links training to employment to cope with staffing adjustments. We will always defend that workers... as more training, better, but we abstain to relate the idea that with more training can emerge from unemployment. It's an individualistic and individualistic view. Now capitalism wants us not all to work. It's not an individual and training theme. And, lastly, we will vote against pushing the Pla urbanist director of economic activity to the Conca d'Odena. To offer cheap land is not to solve the problem of unemployment, it is an underground land, to the band that the conca is already industrial. I, more than not defending our institutions of the European Union, the plan ignores the Green Pact of the European Union. For all this, we ask you to withdraw this plan, we ask the department to withdraw this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.115.0	Thank you, President. Well, we carry until 2019– I do not exclude 2020–..., until 2019 we carried six years of economic growth and the creation of jobs in a very important way, but the years 2018 and 2019 already warned us that the market of the industrial sector was calling attention to us: 2018, with growth lower than the middle of the economy, and the year 2019 until and even with a scene of economic growth..., the industrial sector was significantly decreasing. And, therefore, it took time for us to warn of certain industrial conditions, which are likely to be shared with industrial sectors in other areas and in other European countries, but that is not the third thing that we paid particular attention to in this sector. And during the pandemic, therefore, they certainly accelerated, I don't know whether they were strictly the result of the pandemic or not, or the circumstances of the pandemic or not, but they did accelerate the closure processes of some industries. And that obviously worries us again. And it is also true that, as Mr. Roquer said, it is essential that the recovery of the industrial sector includes all the territories – it is obvious that it is – but we must pay special attention to those territories in which the environment is particularly sensitive to the industrial sector. And, in this sense, so – you pull your own house and I pull my own one – the Penedès is also painted precisely this situation: the Penedès is the region with the most clout of all Catalonia for a few years ago. And, therefore, the closure of certain industrial establishments in these areas has a strong impact on the population's conjunction. But, I insist, we absolutely agree that the whole territory must be respected. So we understand that reactions are slowing down. And in this sense, reactions are driving the industrial sector, defending jobs... And we have the tool, which is the Pact for Industry, which in these three or four years does not give the impression of having given results. So we'll have to keep working. And, as in all motions, appeals appear: the need to put money – we already agree – regardless of whether the money is right or not; Martorell's Vocational Training Centre – we also agree – we have the fifth advisor who promised us that he would solve it; and the case of labour reform, which is where we would not agree. But they'll allow me to fill in the fact that the Socialist Party is and we can – the Socialist Party, which has been ruling for two years, and we can, that it's also in the Government of Spain, that it's the ones who can make the change in labor reform – the ones who don't stop planting this in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And they don't do it where they can do it, do they? , which is in the Congress of Deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.116.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.117.0	...because they could probably approve of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.118.0	Thank you. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the turn, again, the deputy Mr Pol Gibert. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.119.0	Thank you, President. I did not want to devote the last intervention to reply to the parliamentary groups, because I seem to be falling into the classical dynamic and it is the last intervention I will make to Parliament, but let me make two points, Mr. Roquer and Mr. Jordi Albert. [[Addressing Ferran Roquer and Padrosa.]] Why did you say that the presumption of the Generality..., clear that, obviously, therefore, there is the fiscal deficit, the whole independence mantra, on the subject of the presumption, right? Listen, I'm not saying, what is needed for the industry; what is needed for the Councilwoman Chacón until two days ago, who was sitting here, who was the priority of her government, and who was not the priority of the industry. I'm not saying, I was giving her advice. I mean, it's not just a matter of presupposition and lack of resources – which also, surely – but there were similar resources years ago and there were three times more investment in industry. It is a political priority for industry in this country, and you have decided not to prioritise. It's his decision; legitimate, but it's his decision. You, of course, the labor reform... have already said, neither will I speak to you, but you, the labor reform, let's say, few lessons can give, after your vote. And the country pact that you claimed... I gave it to Mr. Tremosa 15 days ago. I mean, more extensive, on the part of our parliamentary group. Tell Mr. Jordi Albert that... he has made reference to a title of a supposed book, that it would be « Catalunya must not be the warehouse of Europe. And it seems to me that there's a counselor around here who sometimes has a book that says the opposite, right, and rules with his party, I mean that he might agree on what they should do, right? And it seems that the industry assumption goes through this line, that they want to be a big warehouse and nothing more. Let me, in these thirty seconds that remain, thank the collaboration with the different Members of this House, both work and industry, who have been cordial at all times and have been a facilitator of agreements. And, obviously, also thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for its work during this time. To the companies and companies, staff of the group, who have obviously facilitated the work of this Member and the group of Members of Parliament. And, obviously, also to the staff of the Parliament, who has made a large pocket always accompanying us, leaving us whenever it is an easy task, this one to legislate and to go to the citizen and to be able to make our contribution, from this Faro and from this Parliament, to the better of life day of many citizens, who obviously ask us to do it and do it with more emphasis. And let us hope that this Parliament will follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into territorial equity in rural and urban areas]] [[302-00273/12]] And, after this debate, let's move on to the next one, which is that of the Movement following the question to the Government on territorial equity in rural and urban areas, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. To defend her, Mr. Marc Parés has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.121.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's present this young man with three big goals. The first is to show that Catalonia is a country where inequalities are expressed on the territory; that, depending on your postal code, you have some opportunities or others; that, depending on the place where you live, therefore, your vital path you will make with a first quality footwear or you will make with a motxilla loaded with stones. I, to correct this situation, call for territorial equity policies, both in rural areas and in the most vulnerable areas of metropolitan areas. It is in this sense that we believe that we need to push two modern laws that are in keeping with our time. A first law, a law of territorial equity, which recognizes equity as a right, which promotes sustainable territorial development and creates a foundation for comprehensive intervention in rural areas, especially those at risk of depopulation. And a second law, a new law of green barrels, with a foundation intended to boost the ecological transition in those most vulnerable and vile barrels; a law oriented to social and urban improvement, but also a law that enters the habitats, for example, in questions of energy efficiency. Because it's not just about having a green agenda, but it's about pushing an economic transition that generates social justice, and that's why vulnerable barrels can't stay out of it. Secondly, in this case, what we want to put on the table is the need to rethink the camp-city relations as a key to the recognition of the ecosystem services that provide rural areas and from which we benefit the country's neighbourhood, as a key to food sovereignty and as a key to social and environmental justice. And we believe that this is necessary to push forward multi-scale policies, but also for a financing mechanism that allows a redistribution of resources through territorial equity policies. And, thirdly, the third great objective of this motion: what we want to do is to counter the radial logic and centralizing of territorial policies. And I believe that the pandemic shows a great opportunity, in this sense, to bet on a polycentric and consolidation model of the middle cities and of the capitals of the region, with a sustainable and feminist urbanism, with a good supply of services, making prevail the public space, with policies of access to housing and with policies of economic dynamism and generation of places of work. And, at the same time, we also believe that we need to deploy a strategy to fix the population to the micro-populations and the small municipalities. And it is in this sense that we propose policies against gentrification, for example, to the High Pyrenees and to the Aran, or to project Lleida's lands as a reference of food sovereignty, or to dignify health services to the Lands of the Ebre, or to diversify the economy to Central Catalonia, or to deploy the vegetation of the Penedès, or to recover the coast and mountain areas to the gironine comarques. Speculation projects such as Hard Rock – trenchers of territories – or projects of high environmental impact – such as the expansion of ski slopes or sport ports – are not the model to follow, and less with an out-of-regulation planning or against the regulations of protection of natural spaces. What green agenda is this? How many more feel about them to see that this isn't the model? We already abandon this model and bet on a real model of territorial development as a key to sustainability. And lastly, we believe that mobility policies are essential for territorial equity. That is why we wanted to gather some of the proposals that arose from the different territories, from the different veggieries, that go beyond the metropolitan region of Barcelona. And I'll give you some key examples of my region that reinforce three ideas that are essential for us in terms of mobility. The first, intermodality. We need to connect the different modes of transport. It can't be that the bus coming from Taradell gets to Vic when the train's gone. The second idea: internal mobility in regional clau. People must be able to move 'for their territories with public transport. It cannot be that, if you want to go from Manlleu or Torelló to Vic to work, you have to sort between taking the train from the morning sets or the new ones: two hours without the train to travel among the main populations of the region of Osona. And it is essential to bet for the tram train model in areas like Camp de Tarragona, with double ring with wheel to Girona, the train Figueres-Roses... And also bet for a territorialized management of mobility, with organizations like the authority of transport of the Lands of the Ebre. I, lastly, worthy and sufficient infrastructure. To unfold the R3 only until the Garriga shows again a centralizing view. Cal invest outside the metropolitan region [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of Barcelona – I finish, President – and we have to claim that the Centelles-Vic tram can be made before 2025. Only from the same territories is how we achieve this territorial equity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word, first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.123.0	Thank you, President. Parliamentarians, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Well, first of all, I think that it is also necessary to thank the spokesman, with the many debates that we have had on the food sector, the rural world, the territories, industry and everything that affects territorial cohesion or the rural agenda, or as we say. Therefore, a grace of all heart to all. We hope to be able to go back into the future. Desiring us, all folds, the best. And also to wish the new legislature that there are more consensus, that we can get back to each other and that we can hear each other more in those issues that are essential for the country, because many times it has not followed the feeling that this legislature has remained, even though it is true that we have made many arrangements. For another band, on the subject of motion, well, we would have liked to have accepted more papers, because, man, we worked on a lot of proposals. The deputy said to us: "Home, it is complicated for me to accept many ideas, because the young man was long, many of Junts and Esquerra have presented themselves... Say: "Well, that's all right. At the end of the term of office, I know what we think, Mr Parés, about depopulation and pending assignments and where the future should go. In any case, yes... I see in the end that it seems like a proposal very adapted to the government and little adapted to the opposition, because I have seen that most of the papers from the groups supporting the government have been accepted. Anyway, no toilet, huh? I think it's about a lot of fears, and they're the ones I'm going to comment on. Positive aspects or aspects that might have improved. I think this was supposed to be a young lady, too. At the end of the legislature, there's no time to implement what's coming today. And, therefore, it is necessary to make a balance, a value to see if a territorial strategy has been deployed, of territorial cohesion, of struggle against depopulation, that we have not talked about many times, that we have approved many proposals – their, ours, of the groups of the Government, I mean... – and have not applied. So, what happened? What are the results? Do we evaluate it? Because here, too, we're always talking... we're talking about facts, and facts about more facts, and sometimes it seems like we're always going back to the exit box. And today we're talking about things here that we're talking about at the beginning of the legislature, things that haven't been fulfilled. Therefore, I believe that what would be good is to recover what has been said, to recover everything that has been approved, to recover everything that has been said that is done and has not been done, and to say: « Listen, lords of the government, lords of the government, complete or « We are a balance of legislatures, from which it has not been completed. Therefore, do not go back to the output box, but try to add to what we have learned. Because, moreover, we have spoken a thousand times of the inter-departmental committee, a thousand times of inter-territorial cooperation and between public administrations, a thousand times of which CAP is the best to promote these objectives that we are leading, but here they do not arise. I think it will be a failure announced, to make a policy of fighting against depopulation – much as there are positive things, I repeat – without coordinating all public administrations, because we have many, and they are all important and essential. It's impossible to fight the depopulation, huh? , without taking into account the meetings, but also without taking into account the European Union and the Government of the State. And of course, if we don't even go to the top where the depopulation policies of the State Government are decided, then, badly. So that's what we have to say. And we're not going anywhere, in the struggle against depopulation, without the urban world. Urban and rural areas, from hand to hand to define a joint strategy. To the urban world it went tomorrow with a cohesive territory, a balanced territory, a well thought out territorial industry, with a political project in the head, with a balanced country on each territory, so it had a few small public services guaranteed and also had opportunities. And then, too, what should we have said in this young man? Where do we find each other? Home, we find ourselves in a place where the fracture continues to grow. The fracture grows. Why? Today I have made six trades, I have made three provinces, to come here; I have made four tokens, I have made one hundred and fifty kilometers. And, of course, you see all the troubles in the territory, which are many. There are places where the right is not guaranteed, and we have seen it recently, and the government has already said that it will solve it. There are places where we have problems for the specialist, or public transport, that has been commented on. I believe that, more than making certain assessments for concrete territories, what would be hot is to make a territorial reflection of public transport, the school transport to the aggregate nuclei, the care for children with disabilities in certain territories, the mobility these days – which has also gone out – between Aran and France. It's not that they want to go to France, the spiders; it's that you're a cul-de-sac. They are related to France. Therefore, it is necessary to repopulate, to put an end to depopulation, but to do so with a very clear strategy. And also a very important element – already to finish –: post-Covid rural world. It is very important to see who managed European foundations, what inertia and what current dynamics cannot reproduce, and public policies to deal with them. Therefore, European foundations to create opportunities also in the rural world. Therefore, in order to finish – now yes –, let's finish this year, let's finish this Ple. I wanted to give a very sincere thanks to all the citizens, especially the Lleida, the Pirineu and the Aran districts, for the trust they have in being here in the Parliament of Catalonia. And, obviously, I think it's mandatory to make an apology, too, for all the things that we haven't managed and we haven't capped well enough, so that we can try to do better on our own. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.124.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Irene Fornós has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.125.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs who still hold on... and let me comment on it, right? It is precisely thanks to a young man who is going to deal with the territorial balance that we find that the deputies who surely defend this young man today and debate it are all different places in the territory, and who today is equal to the time of..., of the hours that we are doing, so we also end up, sometimes, a little..., affecting. But well, said that, we find ourselves in front of a motion presented for the group of the commons, in this case led by the deputy Marc Parés, to whom I want to thank to have brought her here in his parliamentary office. And also thank him for the good predisposition that as much in this young man as he has always had to agree, and I think that always, therefore, we have come to a good debate and we have understood. A young lady who I hope has also endured it in most of the points of the rest of the matches that we are here today. From the Republican Left we already say that we will surely vote in favour of most of the points, since I think we all agree, in the background of this, right? , we all share..., that is territorial equity in rural and urban areas. A subject that, as the previous speakers have already said, has been discussed on many occasions in the different committees, in points that we have also debated and in plenary sessions..., we have repeatedly been cadascú carrying our share to talk about these territorial inequalities that we have, and I believe that, in this sense, therefore, well, it is also very well that we can speak to it today. Because territorial equity is a reptile of country that we can pull forward, and make it from the different ways of which, like deputies and deputies of this chamber, we have. But I also do so, above all – and I want to point out this – by listening to the people of the territories, and, above all, that those decisions that are taken that end up affecting them also continue to be consulted with them. Because surely this territorial imbalance that we are talking about today is the result of those decisions that have sometimes taken place without consulting them, and those decisions may also be the result, including, of many convergent policies that have preceded us. They'll let me, even though the young man is very broad– we're talking about almost thirty points more than those who have been accepting from different groups–..., a very broad young man, who speaks of many fears, right? , the import of natural ecosystems, the rural world, housing policies, connectivity services, industry, sustainable mobility, educational and care services... Allow me to speak of a point that I believe is the key to this young man and that I believe that it should also be, if not, the conclusion or the objective, and I am speaking of point 4 of the young man, in which at the end we have also reached a compromise, and which speaks, no? , to promote from the Parliament a law of territorial equity for the sustainable development of rural areas. And I also appreciate it, in this case, to Congressman Parés, who is also included, right? ... which also take into account those conclusions and aspects which have been drawn from the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation. We agree that you should throw a law like this in front of you. And, in fact, I think this young man we're making here is a proposition, right? Yes, of a law that there was the will – and so it is written to me by Mr. Parés – to pull it forward and that I think it would be necessary, right? And for that..., to see if this point is approved and is possible in the next legislature. I am sorry, in this sense, too, that point 9 of the Socialist Party has been accepted, because we believe it is not fair. It's not true that the government hasn't done anything. And, in this sense, so – as they have already commented – this inter-departmental commission that we spoke of before and also to the Rural Agenda, which a few days ago also spoke, they are a reality, and they answer to what other countries are also doing that have these problems of depopulation. It's hard for Republican Lefters to be very clear. Last week we did not, the other week, that we also made a ple, the spokesman of the Republican Left and also join here to the Parliament, the Marta Vilalta, also talked about, the reptes of the Rural Agenda, that they understand all these fears that today to the Parliament we have been talking and commenting. And we believe, well, that it's important, that it's a valid tool that we have. That there are certainly many more to be done, that there is still much to be done, but among all I believe that we need to be in value and we need to be aware. Because, in the end and in the end, this is about making the country we want; a country that we want to follow better, and that means that you also guarantee opportunities for everyone and everyone. And by the end of the day, I think it's the end of this legislature carrying a young man like this is a good way to do it. This is the last intervention I make in this legislature and I do here in Parliament. And to do so by discussing territorial equity... it's a theme. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and it will allow me, President, and I'm finished – which I think is important, since we all agree, and it was one of the tasks I proposed to do when I came in as a Member here in Parliament. And in all the spaces I've had I've been looking to do it and try to improve all the territorial inequalities we've suffered in our country. All right, all right, Give thanks to all and to all; give thanks to the members of the Bureau, for the work they always have, and that we always end up accompanying until now; to the workers of the house, to all the deputies and, in particular, to all the people who make up the Republican Left team of Catalonia to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mr Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.127.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Allow me, first of all, to apologize to Councilman Calvet. He's coming back from territory and another counselor should replace him, but he's been summoned to a meeting and he can't be here in the government. I'm taking the words that Congresswoman Fornos was saying. For me, too, it is an honor to close this period talking about the territorial balance, talking about the country, talking about the country's servants. And more when you have a municipalist vocation, right? , many years of service practice from the local world, and, therefore, they understand the country – which I will refer to later on – in a certain way, which is that, viscous when viscous, you must have the same services. And, therefore, this young man went a lot – a lot – on his way. I like him, this young man. It is a better way to talk, to debate, to reason about the model of the country, about equity, about territorial balance, about the services, counting that Catalonia does not cease to be an asymmetric country, and, therefore, there is a plurality, there is a diversity that enriches us, that makes us as rich as the country and as society – culturally, historically, labour, etc. So we have to take advantage of it. And I think we share that objective that you're pursuing this young man, don't we? , which is that of..., as well as having a diverse and plural country, so that, viscose when viscose, you have the same quality of service, right? That, wherever you are, you can live with an equal opportunity on the part of what the Administration and the territory offers you to fight – it has been said – against depopulation, inequality, etcetera. So, we appreciate this young man. Yes, it's true that this young man is a bar of different points, that he's dealing with territories, transport, agriculture... which is actually what he's chasing, huh? , this transversality, but this young man, as he is, speaks of many points. We don't find there, for example, to fall more municipalist and from the local world, do we? We don't talk about finance, about the local world's competitions, which are also interesting. Because we're talking a lot about what the Catalan Administration will do, aren't we? , of what the Generality has to do, but we are not talking about who really is the one who manages most of these services, which is the local world, and the financing. Why can't we continue pretending, as has been the case for many years from this house and from the very Government of the Generality, to say: "This service will pass to the joints, and, at the time of payment, we will see who pays it, right? Well, then, we understand that this subject was also good, in this young man. But well, hug a lot, this young lady, and I'm not saying it like a toilet or much less, am I? It is a place of situations or realities that can improve in the face of the service and the equality of Catalans and Catalans. Twenty-five points... we all agreed. Therefore, we also appreciate the willingness to reach an agreement with the parliamentary group of the commons, even if we can't give support to it, basically because we understand that the government is already exercising. They're just asking the government to do... when it's done. Is it going in a different way? Maybe so. Is it not in the way that the proposed parliamentary group would want? Maybe so, but it's happening. Therefore, therefore, we cannot give him support. I would also like to make a very concrete point about this issue accepted by the Parliamentary Group of the PSC – Mrs Fornos also made no point – in which it is said that the Government does not have a country model. I think this is a mistake. I mean, we may be against the country models that you or we have, but there's a country model. I can speak on behalf of Junts per Catalunya. Together for Catalonia is a party that has a municipalist vocation, has a vocation in which it is willing to serve all the citizens of Catalonia. In fact, one way of summarizing it is that I really like to say that we have a name, that is Catalonia, it is obvious, but there are 7_million_i_mig of surnames. There is a name, which is Catalonia, and it is the name of the country, and 7_million_i_mig of surnames, the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans that we conform to this country. And we've been heresy of Prat from Riba and the Commonwealth for a hundred years, haven't we? , of that will to modernise the Catalan people, that will to make the foundations of a new political Catalanism. They and they were the ones who transformed this country, counting that each and every one of the services had to arrive at all and every one of the reasons for Catalonia: the phone, the reels, the Library of Catalonia... A series of examples that have now been set a hundred years later, so we need to update them, but this is the objective. And the vocation of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, therefore, is evident in this Prat de la Riba municipalism. And we see it with the health system, with public transport, with the country alive, with social policies, with policies of security, of connectivity, of culture, of education, etc. So, at 9 of us, we don't agree. Before I finish, president, too, like everyone else, I apologize where I was wrong, where I wasn't sure. And I end up with thanks to all of you, to all of the house's workers in this legislature. And I wish them all and all very lucky in the future and, above all, very good holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix his position, has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Francisco Javier Domínguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.129.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the proposing group for allowing us to talk about the issues that have made me political, which are issues of territorial equity, agriculture and rural areas. Field-city, rural-urban... Is there a lack of equity between these two concepts? Is there inequality between territories? It is clear that yes, and that is why we are talking, right here, with this motion. But territorial inequalities not only occur on the rural-urban axis. An example is the Baix Penedès, a territory with serious structural problems, such as the highest unemployment rate in Catalonia, and which has consistently been nowhere in investment budgets. Indeed, there is also that lack of equity in rural areas, and we must recognize it – as is set out in the motion – institutionally and put into value all that the rural world brings to society as a whole. It provides environmental services, provides food, takes care of our landscape, takes care of our protected spaces and is a reserve of life and biodiversity. And we have to recognize it and value it. The motion says that a fairer redistribution of resources must be implemented. It's obvious, too. With a fairer redistribution, we would not have the grievances like those we have in Baix Penedès or Montsià. And we have come to the Law on Territorial Equity for the Sustainable Development of Rural Areas. Is such a law necessary? For it may be that yes, but it may be that yes because what Catalonia needs is a government that wants to allocate sufficient budget to support mountain agriculture, to end the irrigation of the Segarra-Garrigues, to start the one of the Xerta-Senia, to rescue the agricultural producers when they are badly given, either by fires, by the Glorias or by the Covids. And then, of course, it takes a law to regulate this, but it really wouldn't. There is no need for a law to support mountain farmers or grazing. There is no need for a law to spend in the delta the 6_million that are already reserved for urgent measures and do not arrive. There is no need for a law to promote teleworking in the rural world. It takes a law because there is no political will to do so. And we come to paragraphs 7 and 8, and here I don't understand part of this motion. And I'll explain myself. Catalonia is divided into seven regions, seven areas – which I remind you are not in force, these veggieries, yet – seven areas, seven problems, seven solutions. But I have not just seen, in these rural areas, their lack of equity in access to basic services such as health care or education. For example, Pirineo and Aaron. They're talking about the housing problem. True, there are problems with housing in the Pyrenees. But is it an exclusive problem of the Pyrenees and the Arán Valley? Is this the biggest problem the Pyrenees has right now? They don't talk about an economic model based on tourism monoculture. Read it. They are offered to be referenced in agri-food production. If they are already... Lands of the Ebre. Come on, let's go, we're gonna give you a new hospital. Of course a new hospital in Tortosa would go by fable, but they do not pose at all problems in the Delta or the Xerta-Senia channel, which I have spoken of before, or the Natural Park of the Ports, or the promotion or reindustrialization of the Ribera. Central Catalonia. Here – this is good – there is a generation of jobs and opportunities, reducing environmental impacts and diversifying the economy. Ostras, this is a solution for Central Catalonia, really, but it is a solution for Catalonia as a whole, for Spain as a whole and for Europe as a whole. They are very good solutions in general, but they don't make any sense. But we got to Tarragona and Girona. Girona is proposed to recover the coastline and mountain areas. Perfect. And to Tarragona, greater chemical safety and eliminate the Hard Rock. For, first, in this I have not just seen equity, and, second, as a tarragonense, offends me – offends me. Do you know Tarragona? Does the coast of the Golden Coast not deserve to be recovered or safeguarded? And isn't Montsant's mountain range a worthy mountain area like Girona's? And do you remember the Priorat or the Barbera Basin? Are not rural areas worthy of reference? Finally, Tarragona, chemistry; Girona, natural environment. I understand that that is already discrimination in itself. And there's still the Penedès. Here they have included the Baix Penedès. And I repeat: it is a region with fewer investments, more unemployment and worse basic services. And what do you propose in this motion? Create another administrative layer more, but do not propose any more measures. They don't talk about unemployment, really, about how to correct it. They put on one more administrative layer. And, finally, of course, the Ciutadans Group will support sustainable mobility to ensure the connectivity of rural areas – that is the title of one of the points – but we cannot support it because it is the list of the Magi. Indeed, the points can be interesting, but they are presented as priorities, which really have nothing to do with rural areas or territorial equity. These are mobility problems we have in Catalonia that need to be solved. That we can support many of these points, but not as a priority to resolve a lack of equity in rural areas. Supporting the fight against territorial equity? Yeah. Against rural-urban equity? Sure. But to the priorities that you seem not to. They don't know the problems. They have shown us that they do not know the real problems of Catalans, with this list they have raised. Thank you very much anyway, because, despite all this, we will give majority support to most points. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.130.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word senyora Natàlia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.131.0	Good afternoon. We will also give support to most of the points that are planted. We have said many times in this type of motion, that we have had the opportunity to talk about it on various occasions: some of the problems that are raised are structural problems arising from a concrete spatial planning model that places macro-cities and cities in the centre, and that all resources are devoted to it, right? Therefore, a radical change of this structure would be serious..., or a transformation of this path would be indispensable. We would not like to, for some of the points, fall into the idea of returning to an idyllic image of the past century, about life in small towns or rural towns. It is necessary to make an economic and labor conversion that is not only focused on a logic of the primary sector. And in this we also believe that there are some shortcomings, in the young man's room. Also, for what it does at point 7.b, about projecting Lleida's lands as a food sovereignty referent, etc., we will vote there..., we will abstain there, finally. Because we would like to put on the table the big problems that the primary sector also generates to put – the workers not only of the camp and the fruit candy, but also of the meat sector – and that it should also reverse this situation. Because if the model we want to implement is the same as it is now, it's not a model that really brings worthy visions to the people of the territory. All right, all right, Most of the rest of the time, we'll give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.132.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.133.0	Thank you, President. She's a man who deals with equity. Basically what they claim, therefore, is to avoid depopulation and fight against depopulation of rural areas. Now, it has to be recognized that the young lady is a species of tailor, huh? Where have they taken different detailes of leftovers that have not been used and have been placed between the calaix, and end up in a species of mosaic of measures for certain areas and some..., all folded, quite inconnexed, right? But, in addition, each of the proposals... most of us will vote in favour of it. The only ones we can't vote for are those in which they sweep things that, in some cases, I think they have nothing to see, and, in others, they're not the solution. For example, the problem of habitating in Upper Pirinius and Aran cannot pass through the content of the returns of the loguers, and less today, which, as we announced, we have brought to the Constitutional the law of this Parliament which claimed the content of returns of the loguers. Or bet on petrochemistry and dismiss Hard Rock. Or bet on petrochemical security, obviously, and now dismiss Hard Rock, right? Therefore, there are aspects that we understand to be contradictory. But, as I was saying, this young man is a tailor of different measurements. And I believe that precisely what the struggle against depopulation needs, what the measures of rural and urban equity need, are more than just small tactics, what they need is a strategy. And here is where we see the sense of the law that is also proposed, that of fixing a certain strategy, a strategy that passes because all government action has this vision of the impact that decisions have on the territory and rural areas. But not only the government, but also the decisions we can take in Parliament. And, in this sense, therefore, for example, in this legislature we have debated the Law on CO2 emissions tax on vehicles. So this represents a hardship for the inhabitants of rural areas, because they have no other possibility than to use the proper transport; they have no public transport possibilities as they do the residents of the metropolitan area. And, therefore, these questions too are about changing the balance between rural and urban areas, and should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.134.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has a turn again the deputy Parés. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.135.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, the first thing I want to do is show the satisfaction that, at this point, we get to have a debate between companies and companies from different territories, right? Veig people of the Camp de Tarragona, people of the Penedès, people of the Lands of the Ebre, people of the Pirinaeus, people of the metropolitan region, people of the Gironine regions, and a server, of the Central Catalonia. So, in the end, almost all the old days have been represented in this debate, which is very interesting and shows the diversity that we have in this country. Secondly, to focus on the concept of equity not only as a guarantee of service to the entire territory, but also as a guarantee that, when you see the territory, you will have access to the same income levels. And, therefore, those territories that are depopulating are not even more impoverished territories than the rest, or less productive territories. Because, actually, in the territory, so, there's power and if you want to live, and that's the key. And, therefore, completely in agreement also with the assertion that it is made by the companies of the CUP, that we do not have to bucolitize the rural world. Have things been done or not, since the government? What we can see clearly, and also because it is the third reason I present in this direction, is that there has been a lack of coordination. Because in the end we had to ask three different departments, and we even found out how between them, so, the issue was disputed, and in the end, we went a little further. And we believe that yes, it takes a law to guarantee territorial equity as a right, to plan with territorial equity logic. It's to say that all that you say is that it's unconnected, that it's a tailor's path... exactly what we're planting is a territorial equity planning, and that's why we think this could help you to donate this direction. But also a law to provide a foundation, via law, because those most vulnerable rural areas can have resources to develop fully. All right, all right, To thank very much all the groups that have submitted reviews, therefore, the good disposition to be able to reach agreements. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-17-6804.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finished this point, and those that were scheduled for today, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
