ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Discussion on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[255-00019/12]] And we do so with the presentation of the motions for resolutions following the debate on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia. The reports that, in the first place, it was up to the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, that they have informed us that they do not arrive in time. So, if I count on the consent of the chamber, we'd leave the intervention of the CUP for more in advance, huh? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we would move to the next, which is the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It has the word, therefore, the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.2.0	Thank you, President. Corruption is a social evil that affects the foundations of democracy and equity. This is the preamble to the Catalan Anti-Corruption Pact. A pact that pushed the summit against corruption, that just started walking. And it's that the figures of corrupt practices are spreading. My company Jordi Terrades was referring to it in the first intervention. The European Commission, in a recent study, has estimated that the impact of practical ills on the public finances of the twenty-eight European Union countries up to EUR 120,000_million per year. And the tax fraud to the European Union, which is another form of corruption, up top of the squandering xifra of 1_bilio– well – of euros. This is the corruption that has an economic translation, directly tangible. But they will allow me to refer again to the intervention of the deputy Terrades in the session of dilluns of this specific plenary, in which he said that there is another type of corruption. One that is practice about the words, about the concepts. One that directly seems to have no economic impact, but that can end up having, which, in the end, is equally bad for the public, right? Because it affects the concepts, the words and, in the end, it does not harm resources, but it does harm coexistence. And, therefore, in our view, we must fight both sides. We have discussed corruption many times in this Parliament. There have been commissions of inquiry, of study, proposals of resolution, motions that have derived in proposals so that the Government implemented them. That is why, from our group, we believe it is opportune not to speak, in our proposals in this House, about corruption, let us say, in generic terms, general, in those terms that we have already repeated many times. Yes, we have referred to one aspect, that we have not talked about at other times, that is the need to protect alerters and alerters. Because we think he's a figure of speech in the fight against corruption. But, beyond this proposal, we wanted to focus, in this House, on the situation that we are living with the pandemic, on its management and on some aspects, on some very focused practices in the administrative contract that have occurred, and that really worry us. Clearly, the need to respond quickly to certain needs during the pandemic and the state of alarm has made some contracting procedures more flexible. But that doesn't mean free bar. That doesn't mean there's no control. In fact, and MP Escarp made reference to it in her question to the councilwoman of Salut the dimecres, the same director of the Anti-Fraud Office said that most of the girl contracts for the government during the pandemic have fallen into large corporations, and that they should be looked at, because something was going on here. Therefore, our motions for resolutions are in this sense. In the first place, to give compliments to the agreements of the Ple of Parliament. And we remember: agreements to terminate the contract with the Ferroser company, to track Covid-19 cases. A scandalous contract, which has not only represented an extraordinary expense, but has not provided a good service in tracking Covid's cases. An agreement to make an audit of the expenditure incurred in managing the pandemic and under the state of alarm. And a third agreement: to conduct an audit of the private sector's spending, to determine whether they paid more during the pandemic. And if that's the way it is, this crease, this amount paid more, it can reintegrate into public assumptions. From the compliment of these agreements, as I said that Mrs Escarp asked the Health Adviser, unfortunately, we did not get an answer. Let us hope that this proposal will be approved today. And, above all, we expect the government to complete it. Maybe it's too long to wait. We have also tabled a proposal on transparency. And so, we raise the need to have a clear legal framework in cases that are delegated or delegated the management of public services to private ones. It may strengthen the transparency and public dissemination of all tendering and award procedures. And to strengthen clarity and precision of the requirements that configure public demand. It is necessary to guarantee impartiality and professionalism in procedures, limiting those that are extraordinary. And in order to enhance transparency, the publication of all contracts in real time. And, as I said before, focusing on what we are now living in, and in cases that may involve suspected corruption, we also believe that a report from the Presidency's office is needed to explain the content of the meetings held for Mr. Vendrell with the different councils. And it's that, as Congressman Terrades recalled, the conversations that Mr Vendrell had known about him, asking him to be expedited in a few ways, well they deserve the government to explain the content of the meetings held. And lastly, we have put forward a proposal on the quality of care for the elderly. The health crisis that we are living in has been particularly intense in the large people and in the residential centres. And it has placed on the table the need to control the quality of the assistance and of the services that are given to the great people in these centers. That is why our group proposes to create the care quality committee, a public, independent body that has executive capacity, that controls, inspections, values you serve and, ultimately, that protects users. I, uh, let me know. Therefore, gifts of transparency to these services. As we also propose to renew the method of inspection of these residential centers, to ensure adequate levels of the most essential services, such as cleanness, food, medical care. And we also wanted to talk about the information to the relatives of the residents. Because during the pandemic, very distressing situations have been experienced for families who, in some cases, were, therefore, aware of the death of a family member after having occurred. I believe that everyone remembers some gruesome cases and that they have, in fact, "failed us. This can't happen again. Therefore, a mandatory protocol must be established for the centres to ensure the correct and continuous information to families. And lastly, we believe that it is necessary to make public, immediately, all the contracts made for the supervision of the residential centers of the great people this year. I'm done. We are convinced and convinced that public institutions are essential for improving society and leading major transformations. Enabling and improving institutions are closely linked to economic and social progress. For this reason, it is necessary to use the compliment of the current law, the non-political instrumentation of the institutions, which are of all, the responsible and efficient use of public resources, the principle of equality of opportunity in the public sphere and the values that define us as a society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now yes, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the parable of the deputy Mrs Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.4.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. President, thank you, I suppose I'll make him go to bed until the last day. [[The joker laughs.]] And thank you for your understanding, too. Well, we've put forward a series of motions for resolutions, but before we got into the content of those we wanted to say that phrase that we're always using, right? , which is, precisely, that corruption is not a rotten apple in a cyst, but that corruption is the sentient cyst. And that, therefore, until we pose in question the State's apparatuses, the judicial, the police, the media and all those apparatuses that conform to the State, we will not be able to face corruption. For us, the best way to deal with corruption is to bet on a real break-up and a process of national construction and social transformation. In this sense, we, in our motions for a resolution, wanted to talk about the financing of parties, the misappropriation and, above all, the public contract. Why? So because public contract is, or represents, 45_percent of the government's assumption. And on many occasions we have seen that when the public interests, the general interest and the private interests are swept away, at last, private interests have prevailed. And, therefore, public procurement is one of the most important elements to control, if we want to be able to talk about free institutions of corruption. This is why we also defended it, among many other reasons, by managing it, ownership and providing it with a hundred_per_cent public services as essential as sanitation, education or social services, which today have become a new business nexus of those who at the time negotiated with speculation and with the real estate cylinder, and who today see in these essential services a great deal of business. And, above all, they see this as a source of negotiation at the expense of precaritating the working conditions of these workers who end up with these essential services, which, we do not stop repeating, for the most part, not valued. They are the workers of the home care service, of the residents of the great people, the socio-health techniques, the workers of the Neteja, who have suffered this corruption of the system for many years. And that, precisely, makes today we have to talk, in the midst of a health emergency, in the midst of a pandemic, about situations of indignity to the residents of the great people, of collapsing hospitals, with workers who double their days in order to get there where not above the Public Administration. Because it's been a long time since they've been in the retail business, and it doesn't give priority to general interest. I'm going back to the subject. When we speak of the general interest, we speak, precisely, of covering the rights and needs of the popular and working majority of our country. Because it can't be that the power continues to concentrate some elites that have been spending too much time in institutions, as if this were their home. And, in addition, acting with full naturality. Look, there are things that aren't corruption, but they don't seem ethical to us. Let's talk about the case of Ricardo Calvo, when he was Director of DGAIA. But we can also talk today about the Government of the Generality's bet to raise a macrocase from the Criteria hand, holding the Box at Camp Tarragona. Or we can talk, too, about Winter Olympics that do not have a social and environmental return for the community, but that the government agrees to continue, without just asking the citizenry. If we want to fight corruption, the best we can do is increase social power. The best we can do is be transparent and make all the information flow, and we can all share in the policies and decisions that are taken in this Parliament, which always have consequences on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.5.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.6.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, this week we have had, in this plenary, a monograph, a plenary on corruption that we, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, consider essential. We believe that it is, in fact, an exercise in democratic health, hygiene, democratic culture to celebrate this plenary session, in the last plenary session of the legislature to have talked about corruption. Because, certainly, corruption is an endemic evil in Catalonia of the successive governments that our community has had, and it is, unfortunately, one of the great taboos that exist in Catalan society – in our public debate, rather than in Catalan society. Catalan society checks with apprehension, it checks with real concern the number of cases of corruption that affect the parties that have ruled Catalonia during the forty years that we have been in democracy. Certainly, the news we have recently heard about the Voloh case, about judicial and police investigations into the main governing parties that have taken place in Catalonia, both Democratic Convergence – the current Junts per Catalunya – and, in this case, above all, Republican Left, I think they should cry out to heaven, should generate a true sense of shambles in the parties that have ruled Catalonia all these years. In fact, one of the fundamental points of our motions for resolutions is precisely that the Government of the Generalitat should ask the citizens of Catalonia for forgiveness for the number of cases of corruption they have inflicted, because that is inflicted on the citizens, because it is to the detriment of the citizens, on all the citizens of Catalonia. However, the Government of the Generalitat seems to be called Andana and is not alluded to, it has no intention whatsoever of recognizing that corruption has indeed been an endemic evil in Catalonia during all these years. The other day the chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, the head of the opposition.... recalled the episode, which was also lame, which was lived in this Parliament in 2005 when the then president of the Generalitat with the first tripartite, Mr Pasqual Maragall – which I must say that he always awakened in many of us a great admiration as mayor, but that, however, his management at the head of the Generalitat was as calamitous as the many years of pujolists had been – said from that seat, practically, from this seat.... in fact, he said that of "you gentlemen of Convergence, you have a problem that is called 3_per_cent. Immediately, Maragall, who had made an accusation that was in the feeling of Catalan society... Catalan society knew that Convergence, that the Government of the Generalitat was, therefore, a government that acted in an untransparent manner, with a number of cases of enchufismo, amiguismo, corruption, commission collection for the concession of public works..., that was a secret to voices in Catalan society and Maragall put a voice to that secret to voices that circulated through Catalan society. But what was the disappointment of many citizens of Catalonia when, far from keeping in that accusation to Convergence, which perhaps had been attended to would have saved us many problems to the citizens of Catalonia in successive years, Maragall ended up retreating in the face of the matonil demand of Mr Mas, who said to him: « Mr Maragall, you withdraw what you have just said, because we have very important things in our hands. And that's the reflection I want to do. I believe Catalonia has had two major problems during these years: nationalism and corruption. Two big problems that are not unbridled or much less, but go hand in hand. When the case of Banca Catalana, Mr Pujol appeared on the balcony of the Generalitat to cry out, with real indignation, with set indignation, that the next time someone gave lessons in ethics and morals and clean play would be them..., he said: « Serem nosaltres i nos els – already establishing the « us and « they so characteristic of nationalism. Well, the moral lessons of a tax evader to me seem to me to be at least questionable, not to say that they are wet paper. That way of focusing corruption when there were very serious allegations of corruption towards the separatist parties, in this case towards Convergence, is what we could call that chulesque attitude, that attitude – that which is said in català« fatxendosa – which the then president of the Generalitat had – is what we could call the « sociological pujolist, which unfortunately has affected all the political parties in this chamber, until the birth of Citizens, and very fundamentally the Republican Left and, unfortunately, I insist, the PSC. That sociological pujolist that makes the Catalans have to be imbued with a sort of self-congratulation, a sort of cofoisme, that we give in català, as if we were better than anyone else, as if we were the adalid of transparency, the adalid of goodness, the adalid of dignity and honesty before a rest of Spain that are little less than a caterva of corrupts. No, gentlemen of the separatist parties. Corruption is consubstantial to nationalism. And I believe, sincerely..., because I do not believe – I insist on what Mr Carrizosa said the other day – that you are morally worse than us. No, not much less. What I believe is that you have had too much power in Catalonia for these forty years. Lord Acton said that power tends to corrupt and that absolute power absolutely corrupts. And nationalism has had absolute power in Catalonia. Not because they are absolute kings, but because without a solution of continuity nationalism has ruled Catalonia for forty years. He ruled first with Convergence in our autonomous community for twenty-three years and then came the tripartite, which was more of the same. Unfortunately, the tripartite was more than the same because Esquerra acted as a continuation of Convergence policies. And, therefore, there has been an absolute power that has prevented the control of the institutions controlling the exercise of political power. That's why Citizens bring this plenary to this chamber. We believe that it is a democratic requirement to have brought this House to this House. And I want to recall another phrase from another separatist leader, who is Mr. Rufián, who said a few days ago that Citizens is the worst thing that has happened to Catalonia. Well, we have told you these days repeatedly, but I repeat: Mr. Rufián, he is not Citizens, the worst thing that has happened to Catalonia; Citizens is the worst thing that has happened to nationalism. It is the worst thing that has happened to nationalism, precisely by full as today's, because today nationalism is obliged to face up to the citizenry and to recognize the number of cases of corruption that have affected the various parties. In fact, their own motions for resolutions..., those of Esquerra seem to accuse Convergence or to accuse Junts per Catalunya, those of Junts per Catalunya seem to accuse Republican Esquerra. But, in any case, everyone implicitly acknowledges that there have been a number of cases of inadmissible corruption in the successive governments of the Generalitat, also with the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. That is why we, in these motions for resolutions, ask, precisely, that the Government of the Generalitat should ask the citizens of Catalonia for forgiveness for the amount of resources withdrawn from the public arena for strictly partisan purposes. When we denounce the amount of chiringuitos in Catalonia, it is not a whim. It's not that we don't like certain institutions – some, indeed, we don't like them by their very nature – but it's basically because we consider that this huge number of entities, of institutions, that in many cases don't do a service to the citizen, are merely instruments to place amiguetes, to plug amiguetes and to continue to squandering, to waste public money. This public money also goes, in grants, to government-prone institutions. This sociological pujolist that we are talking about, precisely, what has done has been to impoverish Catalonia, to divide Catalonia and, ultimately, to leave us a much worse competitive position with regard to the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain and with regard to the rest of Europe. In our motions for resolutions we are asking, precisely now, in times of pandemic, for health management to be subject to scrutiny by an independent committee of experts, which seems to be that this idea has not been liked in the Government of the Generalitat, I understand that by the weaves of Mrs Vergés, the Health Adviser, who is not here, but that, by her meetings, long meetings, marathon meetings, with the achiever, with the pacifier, Mr Vendrell..., and we believe that this proposal should be accepted. We also believe that public funds earmarked for the management of the pandemic, as well as European funds, must be subject to the control of the Court of Auditors; for democratic hygiene, simply for democratic hygiene. We sincerely believe that this plenary was a democratic requirement, a requirement for Catalan society. We believe that the deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia have a moral obligation to be accountable to the citizens of Catalonia. And I would ask you, lords of the separatist parties, and also of the PSC, but fundamentally to the Government of the Generalitat, to value, to analyze and to come to the conclusion, that it would seem to me more reasonable, that it is imperative that you ask forgiveness for the amount of money you have squandered during these years. Because moral lessons, ethical lessons can be given by those who behave in a truly complete, truly honest and truly noble way, and their successive governments have not done so. Unfortunately, in Catalonia we have had forty years of governments that have repeatedly fallen into corruption, and corruption is an endemic evil in Catalonia. The last point I want to say to you is that your disregard for judicial institutions clearly shows that what you want is impunity, simply. Because, precisely, if a democracy works, if a democracy succeeds in being truly transparent and rejecting actions or attitudes such as those you practice with corruption, what has to be a strong and competitive civil society that is not hyper-subsidized, as you have done, to create a client network of friendliness and enchufism that maintains or generates very uncomfortable silences, and also to despise the judiciary, which is the last guarantee of those who want to live in freedom, equality and without having to endure a completely corrupt government. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.7.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Members, Members, today is the last plenary of this parliamentary term. Today is the last day, but this government doesn't even save the bell. Today we are going to continue talking about corruption and today we are going to vote on measures, proposals against corruption that is structurally splattering the Catalan institutions. A corruption that damages the image of the citizenry of politics in general. Politics is to help our neighbours, our fellow citizens and not to use it to fill their pockets. Unfortunately, we experience different types of corruption, that of those who want and use the structures, the Administration, the parties to enrich themselves illegally, and those who also use those structures and parties to illegally finance their own parties, entities, associations, but also certain causes. That is why they are all reprehensible and we must have zero tolerance, be firm and exemplary. Some will come, as always, with the canteen that they have no case of corruption, that cases are a matter for others, but we all know that that is not true. Unfortunately, there are people who use the parties to enrich themselves personally. Since the People's Party, when we were at the head of the Government of Spain, we have worked intensively to implement more than seventy anti-corruption measures, which revolved around five axes. Law 19/2013, on transparency, access to information and good governance. This law allows any citizen of this country today to demand from a city council, an autonomous administration an invoice, information, that before this law was systematically denied by the governments in charge. Now you can. Thanks to this law of the People's Party. We have also developed criminal and procedural measures, the fundamental reform of the Criminal Code, a law regulating the status of the high office, in order to avoid, precisely, the conflict of interests, the limitation of compensation, representation costs, the strengthening of mechanisms for prevention, control and punishment. We have also developed a law on the economic activity of parties to prevent cases of corruption, the prohibition of pardons by banking entities to political parties, to reduce electoral expenses and to extend, precisely, the statute of limitations for any offence. And last but not least, also the reform of the General Tax Act. All this because we are convinced that we must be firm, exemplary, all, all public representatives, against this scourge that is corruption and that we live with special intensity here in Catalonia. That is why today we are also presenting four motions for resolutions, measures in the institutional field, to regulate the high office in Catalonia. Measures also to develop the regime of incompatibilities. The office of conflict of interest, mechanisms to control the assets, to encourage the public complaint, to know all the alleged cases of corruption and to deploy the Law on Transparency and Good Governance also in the Catalan administrations. Measures in the field of the control body, which is also essential, the Anti-Fraud Office, which is subject to the Union of Accounts. Strengthening with more material and human means to be able to work in a coordinated way, and such coordination also with social security and the tax administration is essential. Measures in the area of expenditure control and public procurement, more accessible, more transparent information on the implementation of the budget, debt and payments; it is essential to commission an annual audit of the general intervention of the Generalitat on the efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure programmes. The specifications with objective and transparent criteria. Set quality standards and reduce the open procedure. It is enough of that open procedure, which already accounts for 50_percent of public procurement. Limit contract amendments. Lastly, the Government should appear as a special charge in all those corruption offences procedures, as well as an internal and external audit of the management of geriatric residences. We want to know what happened to the geriatric residences in Catalonia. Finally, the amendment of the law of the legal services, which allows this Government to be defended by the lawyers of the autonomous administration itself, should be rejected. When there are offences against the Administration, they cannot be defended by the legal services of the Generalitat of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.9.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.10.0	That is why we want that truth, to be relentless and to be able to emerge strengthened from this debate. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the honourable Member Concepción Abellán has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.12.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Councillor, we believe that talking about corruption is talking about how to solve the problem of corruption, not coming here to make accusations to each other. It is essential to address the structural causes of corruption, and that is the work of everyone, of society as a whole. It won't be something you get alone from a game. We know that corruption is a problem that has no easy solution, but we also know that it is urgent work. The later we resolve the problems of corruption, the more people will continue to move away from politics and institutions, something we cannot afford as a society. Because the great problem of corruption is that it harms democracy and its legitimacy; that is, that corruption is the main enemy of the common good. And, in that regard, we regret to see that Citizens proposed this specific Plenary to give the exit shot to their electoral campaign, and we see that they have been unable to make proposals that do not have a clear electoral and party component. In this regard, what we see in the motions for resolutions is that while virtually all groups have taken the debate seriously and have worked on technical proposals to really improve the fight against corruption, Citizens have put forward proposals that only reaffirm their mantras, which we already know from memory, so much so that they have repeated them. That is why we believe that we cannot vote in favour. On the other hand, we see with great curiosity and surprise the proposals of the PP, because they are interesting and very well done. I suppose it must be well known what you're talking about, since you're a specialist on this subject. A separate chapter deserves the proposals of the government groups. In this plenary we will see how, even through motions for resolutions, they discuss among themselves, further proof that this Government is exhausted and absolutely degraded. That is why we hope that this majority will not be repeated after 14 February, or that they will continue to transfer the degradation of their alliance to the main institutions of the country, which are of all citizens and not their own. On the point of transparency, it is shameful to read how proud they are of the work done on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been asking questions, both in committees and in Parliament, where no clear answer has been given, because the answers are always empty of content and without specific data. Transparency is much more than publishing what Members, Members, Councillors and the President are doing and where they are going. "Transparency is to know what is being done with the money, where exactly it goes; what monitoring and control is being done; to inform in time and form the decisions made, and to respond to Members in a concrete and correct way. Less car bombs and more self-criticism, that's what they need. In addition, we were somewhat shocked to see that Junts per Catalunya has introduced sexual harassment issues into the issue of corruption. We think it's an important enough issue to not trivialize it in this way and use it to attack your partner, more when we're talking about the group that had to throw your spokesperson for a similar topic. Those who have suffered and suffered this agony deserve more respect. With regard to the Republican Left proposals, we will vote in favour of the first one. But in the second we are going to abstain, because it seems to us important to denounce the corruption of the monarchy, as we have done in our proposal number 4. But it seems to us a falsehood and very unfair that in that resolution we are called as coverts of the monarchy. Accusing of this to the only state-level party that is trying to destroy the omertà around the monarchy can only be understood so that you can use it as a political revenue in the electoral campaign. But the lie, in politics, is paid. It is quite evident, our position on the monarchy and on everything that surrounds it. They are not believed to have the monopoly of the republic in Catalonia. There are many republican people who are not independent and who will continue to fight for a plurinational republic that recognizes us all, both in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole. Finally, to comment on the CUP's proposals, thank you for taking the debate seriously and for bringing forward interesting and plausible proposals. That's why we're all going to vote in favour. With regard to the motions for resolutions that we have brought to this House, first of all, we believe that it is essential to ensure public procurement and the granting of subsidies that are free of suspicion. Therefore, we propose: to exclude public procurement in a precautionary manner until there is a final judgment of companies involved in cases of corruption; to ensure that there is no fragmentation of contracts and to conduct competitions for free competition in a regulatory manner in compliance with the Contracts Act; to ensure that the publication of information relating to service contracts is made quickly and easily accessible, in compliance with the Transparency Act; to make public and transparent the criteria for the procurement of institutional advertising; to leave nominative subsidies behind in order to advance the public conclusion of services and programmes with non-profit entities; to motivate and clearly justify subsidies excluded from competitive competition; and to monitor the justification of subsidies. And with a view to reforms concerning political parties to ensure transparency, it is necessary to promote the advertising on the websites of political parties of total debts with banking entities and form of return. Establish and promote a mandatory ethical code for elected posts with a supervisory body and sanctioning regime in case of non-compliance. Reduce electoral spending by promoting a single mailing for all candidates who are running for election in the Parliament of Catalonia. Another proposal we are making today refers to the recommendations made by the Anti-Fraud Office to combat corruption with the new situation caused by the Covid. Because, as my colleague said earlier, the substantial volume of public resources aimed at curbing the pandemic can generate incentives for corruption. In this regard, it is necessary to promote the creation of a specific commission for the monitoring, control and control of expenditure linked to the contingency of the crisis of the Covid; to create specific Covid spaces within the portals of transparency intelligible to any person; to extend the motivation, transparency and ensure the traceability of the regulations adopted during the state of alarm; to ensure the transparent and efficient allocation of public funds; to ensure that speed does not undermine transparency or the suitability of public procurement; to set an example of transparency and accountability in the management of the necessary human resources during the crisis. Finally, it seemed very important to us that a specific plenary session on corruption should talk about the monarchy, one of the most corrupt institutions we have. And in this debate I believe that many people are waiting for a clear position from the Socialist Group. The Constitution cannot be an excuse not to investigate the Royal House; if the Constitution serves only to protect the corruption of the head of state, then it is wet paper. If we want to be a modern country, republican values have to be those that guide the organization of the state. Therefore, we cannot defend an anachronistic and immoral institution such as the monarchy, because we are talking about an institution that less than a week ago has recognized that the former head of state had money without regularization. And this cannot be allowed or normalized. So our proposal is that as long as we have monarchy and royal family, their actions must be monitored by Parliament, in order to ensure public control over that institution and thus end the wall of opacity that surrounds it. If all of us here are really committed to working seriously, following the direction of the consensus that we will see today in the vote on the resolutions, we will be much closer to the day when there is no need for corruption in this Parliament. Today seems a very distant future, but, as I say, if we focus on this task, that day will come, and when that day comes, it will be a victory of politics and of the whole of society as a whole; it will not be the success of a single party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Lord Lluís Guinó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.14.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members, it is customary to talk about corruption in this Parliament, certainly, because we have made different debates. But to solve these problems – which are not only inherent in institutions, but are also inherent in people, and I will refer to it –, more to talk about it many times and more to approve resolution proposals that urge administrations in general to take action, perhaps it is taking action, and that, moreover, it is assessed whether these actions or actions have come to an end, and what value it takes from a parliamentary perspective and to translate value into citizenship, which is the most important. Basically, because there is no corruption, what there is to have is moral integrity, ethics from a personal point of view, because institutions, from an institutional perspective or from an organic perspective, are directed, are, in some way, planned and articulated through people. And, therefore, talking about moral integrity of institutions is talking about moral integrity of people. I, in the first place, should focus on this question. "Moral Integrity What Does It Mean? Basically, it means carrying out politically with four basic principles, which are: acting above all with responsibility, which means effectively, transparently and, moreover, taking on the consequences of mistakes from a political point of view, because of political fact. Another thing is to transfer certain responsibilities to other areas that are not specifically policy areas. And this is one of the problems and defects that the political class, and especially in this country, has brought to an end, that is to extend the general and generalized suspicion to institutions, in many cases very linked to very concrete actions of certain persons or organs. Therefore, extending the suspicion of corruption to all institutions is a mistake and clearly harms the institutions, beyond which it can obviously, and ultimately, harm citizens. Because, in fact, the actions of corruption..., obviously, the harm is public interest, citizenship and people who at a given time, in which the mandate is represented, have given confidence in part to the politicians or people who lead at a given and concrete and temporary time governments and institutions. There is another important issue, which is to distinguish clearly what is the political responsibility of criminal responsibility. The fundamental and fundamental impartiality is to understand that it is carried out with ethical and moral integrity, and impartiality means to have clearly defined what are the possible conflicts of interest that may exist in political action, in institutional action; conflicts of interest that can be given from a point of view of those people who at a given time have developed their task in an environment and who, after leaving politics, for example, must also assume restrictions in their future working environment because they have or have had interests. And that's especially important, and somehow there have to be the necessary protocols because that doesn't happen. Incompatibilities, of course, must be established and articulated formally, and they must be completed. And the rotating doors must be avoided. And that's so clear the last few days in this country and in general in the Spanish State, that the question of rotating doors would deserve a monogram and, more importantly, a thesis or a few doctoral theses. Because, in fact, there are a lot of cases, and a lot of acquaintances, that I don't need to insist on. And in the end, when we talk about impartiality, we also talk about defending public interest, defending the common good. And that's not an understanding, nor a generic question, nor is it... It's a clearly tangible question, it can be obvious and it can be empirically articulated what public interest is, in all political actions. It is easy to deduce what public interest is and in five moments it is beyond the strictly public sphere and defends private interest. And we are absolutely responsible for all of them, who are in government and, somehow, we are in Parliament, precisely, to approve or to urge the approval of protocols that must be completed. The codes of ethics are basic and phonental, but the codes of ethics do not cease to be, in some way, proposals to be made, from a personal point of view, internalized – which is very important – and these protocols are to be internalized from a personal point of view, but they are also codes of conduct. Therefore, they are not just principles translated into a document, but they must be implemented and applied. And the Administration has the obligation to do so, and it has the obligation, in addition, to evaluate it, and it has the obligation to apply these protocols and, if they fail to comply with the protocols, proceed clearly, forcefully, to its sanction for that failure. And the copy of the Administration has to serve because it has not come back to produce these facts. I referred to two principles that also set the moral and ethical integrity of politics. The other is equity. And fairness means distributing just the resources and the public benefits of political action and addressing, in a nutshell, the most vulnerable, those people and those sectors of the population that, beyond the economic and economic situation of every moment, lie in the way. We have the obligation, from the Administration, to help them, to support them and to be fair with public resources. This is also ethical integrity, public integrity and moral integrity. And, in the end, a concept that uses much of a point of view of psychology, personal and collective, that is empathy. You have to be empathetic with the people you're suffering from; you have to be empathetic with the people you're struggling with. But it is not a theoretical empathy; it must be a practical empathy. It is an obligation to be on the side of people who have difficulties, only because it must be clear that the Administration is to help them and that the Administration and those working at the Administration are to do the right thing. This is the conclusion or the series of mechanisms that should be implemented for the Administration so that it is more ethical, that it has a clear moral component and that corruption is left behind, that it is a clear sacre, and that, from a political point of view, we do not have to use these debates for, precisely, returning to parliamentary groups each of the cases that are surely linked to different political forces after so many years. There is a paradox, that those who have studied corruption make reference, especially Professor Villoria, that, curiously, when there was more corruption from a factual point of view, or then, when there was more obvious corruption, when there was, precisely, the subsequent analysis, the concern of people, of the citizenry, was less. Interestingly, when mechanisms have been put in place to expand and intensify, the perception of corruption on the part of the citizenry is superior. And this is a paradox that holds us accountable and must make all the measures that, from a theoretical point of view, have been approved by Parliaments to be implemented by the Administration. It is inescapable, it is necessary and, in some way, we should take a compromise that, more than just making debates and talking and diagnosing, we have ended up carrying out practical actions, as it was at the time, in 2014, the Law of Transparency, which has just been developed, but which holds the responsibility of the Members who start the next legislature in order to finish developing it, certainly. But there has been an important effort on the part of the administrations for which it has already made reference to active advertising and passive advertising. When you ask the administrations for information today, you have nothing to do with when it was asked a long time ago. We must apply an ethical culture, I insist, and public integrity in the field of administration. Actually, Heywood and Rose say in their moment that corruption is a moral malaise, and so make reference that, beyond the institutions, the problem is personal. It's a problem with every one of them. One must be fully aware that the work is being done in an ethical way. And that's not incompatible with making mistakes. And when mistakes are made, precisely, what needs to be rectified, and that's a policy merit, those who make mistakes and end up taking them and rectifying them, because that's the way it works. In later term, there is all the experience of the government, having opened up to develop, to extend, to work... And I'd like to make one last reference – that I have thirty seconds left, and surely the President this time will leave me thirty more – just to tell them that this is my final Ple to the Parliament of Catalonia, and therefore he wanted to make some considerations and thanks. First of all, the workers of this house, who make it easy to make a deputy. I would also like to thank all the parliamentary groups that during this time we have worked in the committees and we have worked in the plenary, especially with all those people who, from the divergence and from the plurality of positions, have worked for the country, in short. And I would also like to have a record, above all, for those people who have opened up the opportunity to develop, to work, to discuss, because I believe, precisely – and this will be the only reference I will make on a personal level – which is that from heterodox it is much easier to make politics. Since confinement and orthodosis is difficult; it makes it very complicated and, precisely, it must be, from a political point of view, flexible, heterodox, open and thinking that you never, ever, ever have the absolute truth of anything. Since this visit, I've worked these years in Parliament. I thank them, I insist, for their collaboration. Beyond the political differences, it has been a pleasure and an honour to be a member of the Parliament of Catalonia. And I thank them, I insist, for their dedication and what they will have in the future when this legislature is closed and a new one is launched. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, in this debate, has the word, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Orobtig. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, Members, Members, today we address the conclusions of a new plenary on corruption that has once again been promoted by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, in fact, the most interested parliamentary group because we are talking about corruption, because along with it, the fang, the intrigue, the unproductive struggle, the disqualification, the understatement, there is nothing to offer Catalonia. Deia Francesc Ferrer and Gardia that a moral society so alone will be possible between men of good feelings. And I see what they feel and how angry they are at what their fellow Members of Parliament have been about, today in prison or exile, that they do not empathize with people, neither with them nor with their families, on such dates, even more so in the situation that we are living, I see very difficult that we can overcome this moral society, when we are, precisely, surrounded by moral corruption, a type more of corruption that exists, as reprehensible as any other, or even more so, because it has more to see with the feelings and values that humans do than with the corruption that comes from the weakness before it is material. His is the struggle for grisness, for mediocrity, for what makes small a society, and the monogram ple rere Monogram ple, interpellation rerere interpellation, moss rere moss aimed to redo us all to the fang. So many times we have tried to water it down, that if we look at the different motions for resolutions put forward by the parliamentary groups, we come to the conclusion that no more criteria, standards, protocols and other tools are being used to fight corruption. Moreover, there are some motions for resolutions that do not even mention corruption. This plenary, therefore, does not obey the need for taxation of government action, nor the struggle against corruption, nor the existence of an extraordinary need to seek solutions, also extraordinary, in order to find a situation, tanmateix, extraordinary; it obeys the need of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens to campaign for the trailer of the journalistic chronicle propagated for the inventive police of the penalty of telenews generated by a group that is disparately radical of the security forces of the State and the judicial apparatus. And how does the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group base its campaign? In the crisis, in the defamation, in the obsessive will to make the world believe that in the case of the Catalan society there is an agra division between linguistic communities, motivated by the will to guarantee the survival of the catalá and to impose it on the castle in cultural genocide mode, and that this struggle for the survival of the local language – yes, first – serves as a subterfuge, among others, for the feeding of associations and platforms to the service of institutionalized corruption. And from this plot you'll all be left. It is not the first time that I say, there is, with this obsessive propaganda dialectic, another objective: to associate not only independence, but merely cultural militancy in català, in Catalan traditions and customs, in the Catalan way of life, in the tradition, among others, of the "puyeteros castles to supremacism, and this with corruption. Who is independentist or sovereignist is corrupt by definition, by the lords and lords of Ciutadans. In fact, we come to say that those who feel only Catalans and who want this feeling to be transferred to a tangible political reality in the form of an independent state in the form of a republic are inferior, feverish, unable to control their old instincts, all the way down to what it rains as if they were guys. We do the rest of the parliamentary groups to the Catalans, especially those of the People's Party and the PSC, tempts of time for the electoral order that these strategies have obtained, to follow the stele that marks. We all have to make a thought: is the recurring and obsessive approach to these debates good for democracy? Or, precisely, what they do is sow land for all those who pretend to abolish democracy? The votes Ciutadans hopes to get from this obsessive strategy won't be for Vox? As the social networks say, it's Vox Ciuta in a five-morning dissipation – without the restrictions of the pandemic, is that clear? [[Rialles.]] Is it good that we have it all under suspicion? That some of the resolution proposals, like those of the PSC, those of the commons, project a shadow of doubt, unjustifiably, without proof or clues, only for the expectation of electoral gain that may become on the emergency contracts that the Department of Health has had to undertake in order to face the epidemiological emergence generated by the Covid? We are not thinking absolutely that we are not talking about corruption when, if and how long it takes, but not on the occasion of the « pito that makes some outsiders of the State sound, those that tacitly– yes, Tacitus – or expressly build prospective reports to try to involve institutions and privates in absurd plots closer to the imagination of a teenager than of another command of a security body of the State. Are there any more examples? The patriotic police, Commissioner Villarejo and many other examples of instrumentalization of justice through police corruption or with obvious political ends. And I'm sure there are many commands from the Civil Guard, the National Police, even functioning from the Tax Agency or agents of the Duanera Vigilance Service, secretaries and judicial, prosecutorial and judicious secretaries who fulfill their obligations faithfully to the ideals that inspired their vocations, but there is also only in the dark, dark, drunk on smoke, they are dedicated to conspiring, conceiving and plotting not only against the independenceists, but also against the Spanish democrats. And the day after, we have an awareness of media and social networks, resolution, resolution, In the face of this reality, what are we trying to do to all the people who have come to pay for the land of fascism? Do we want full democracy to prevail, free from corruption? Be implacable before form of corruption, enabling effective and practical measures, procedures and protocols to make it difficult for anyone who wants to serve, but not to serve. To be strictly guaranteed with the rights of those who see themselves involved in a corruption assumption, in particular respecting the right to the presumption of innocence, and to be blind to the answer that institutionally, also in Parliament, we have foreseen respecting these situations under an inescapable premise: any public authority or person with public responsibilities has the inescapable duty to be able to face up to their responsibilities, and, fundamentally, to put on the facts attributed to them, to dispel any doubt respecting their way of doing so. In the words of the chairman of our parliamentary group: "For every fact that we want to attribute maliciously, we answer, because we have nothing to store. And the fact is that, unfortunately, not all public bodies respond in this way, and the palm example has been how the case of the Hospital Sports Council has been faced by the mayor and president of the parliament, defunctly appearing before this Parliament when she was invited to do so, arguing agenda issues, failing to adopt any measure before flagrant evidence, such as the complaint by a governor, a company of municipal groups, when she did not pronounce, not giving explanations, when she did not take action. It may or may not favor their procedural situation; to the tests we submit. But what it doesn't do is launch a message of tranquillity and normality to the citizen, and this fact is reprehensible. There are those who, with their motions for resolutions, thought they were looking for us. Maybe he was pretending to be a Phoenician game of beasts. They won't find us, and we won't. We will not vote against any motion for a resolution that what you seek is total and absolute transparency and faulty conducts that do not fit that required by the public authorities. It is not lawful to demand from others that it is not possible to self-execute. As Thomas Jefferson said: "Who does not have the truth is not afraid of lies. And that brings us to another debate. As the groups of the People's Party, the PSC and Ciutadans claim to have a serious debate about corruption if they flee, no longer investigate, no longer judge, no longer fail, only debate and question allegedly corrupt behaviors of which the head of the Spanish State has been? Behaviors that have transcended and extended to other members of the Spanish royal family? What credibility as rulers can stand before the citizens of this country if they demand them to comply with the laws, pay their taxes and evade those in which they are supposed to be admiring themselves in compliance with the most elementary obligations of any city? We aspire to something better, to a state where there are no first and second Catalans, where we all respond equally to our actions and minimize the risks of corruption through a value system based on social justice and merit. Where to cap this social project and republic is chosen for its merits and not for its lineage. Because only the Catalan Republic, disillusioned with the farce of the pact with the military of 78, the republic as a tool for social transformation, as a brand of conduct, as an instrument of development of all our capacities, individual and collective, we can achieve excellence as citizens and as a people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.17.0	Thank you, Congressman. After this debate, I am sure, as you know, that the motions for resolutions will be voted on at the end of the day. [[Proposal for a resolution on the marc programme of the audiovisual public system]] [[250-01619/12]] And so we pass the tretzé punt, the next, which is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the framework programme of the public audiovisual system, a motion for a resolution presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. To defend the proposal, first of all, the paragraph, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, the deputy Mr José Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.18.0	Thank you, President. When we approved the first marc mandate, in 2010, the situation of the audiovisual environment was something that philosopher Marshall McLuhan could identify and hear, linear television was still the source of information for most people. YouTube was only operating five years, Netflix was only operating in the United States and Canada, but it was still missing nine years because the average internet consumption exceeded conventional television. In 2010, young people under thirty years of age preferred television or press written on the internet as well as media for political information. Today's the other way around. Today's world Mr. McLuhan couldn't even recognize him. The forecasts for 2010 were that the networks would make us more free, that we would have a more reflective society and with more access to both information and deliberation skills. But the truth is that the most critical predictions, such as those of sociologist Bauman, have proved to be more accurate to reality. We have passed to populist leaders like Donald Trump, who before communicating a decision to media does it on Twitter, and this practice we have incorporated in Catalonia. We have networks that, instead of promoting deliberation, spread in microcosms and bubbles, in small occlusions or mobs of people who each time promote more political partisanism and sectarianism. Fake news, science-free information and any information that doesn't contradict the fact that it matches the damage of one of these bubbles run like gunpowder without the professional communication manager having been able to filter to contrast the fonts or try to find the objectivity of that information. These fake news and these misinformation reports also affect the same communication media, which in an attempt to survive a chaotic environment and counter-reflection, take forms and leads from these networks. Private media, with some exceptions, have gone to ideological specialisation, have let go of plurality, and sometimes the same quality of information, prioritizing the click and the quick headline. I don't want to be an apocalyptic, as Umberto Eco pointed out when he was talking in the sixties about how television was flattening the quality of cultural contents at the same time as it was democratizing them. I know one of the integrants; we live, we live, and we can't be aliens, and we are part of both the problem and the solution of this media and communication universe in networks. We feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we feed them, we So, maybe, one of the examples of this ecosystem, since a lot of you know me before for my Twitter aliases than for my name. And wanting to believe that we could go back to the 2010 stage, where we saw them only because of the positive aspect, it's absurd. Also the new communication and network ecosystem still has opportunities and positive aspects. We creators, new communicative opportunities, a reduction of some costs, a better technology, the exclusion of forms such as citizen journalism and micro-audiences, which allow to bring to the scene aspects of social reality that were previously relegated. Moreover, there are more cameras, more microphones, more witnesses that avoid that many actions go unpunished. Naturally, this also affects the quality of journalistic work, which has been pre-charitable every time. When you can build the news based on the tweets that we make the policies and teletype re-records, and when the information is based on the click and the cheating news that pulls those clicks, media professionals also suffer from this pre-characterization. This contrast and information task is needed to be able to be interpreted. It is true that there are now advertisers in the networks, in some cases with a very high level of expertise. But, between these outreach efforts, there is a lot of sound and the work that professionals do to be able to extrude the content and contrast and give context, even if it is every more necessary time, is valued every less time for private media. In any case, we have some counter-examples of private media that also make efforts for quality journalism, but they are insufficient before corporate culture and the fame of this new ecosystem. Also the concentration in few hands of the private media power that has occurred in the past decades has made, while believing that with the networks we have more plurality of voices, these ones remain, in the background, in more reduced hands. Before that, the role of public media is essential. They are the only ones that can create different trends, that can navigate within this communication universe without meeting the criteria of how best to click, those that have as their object not to thicken an account of results, but to introduce elements of quality and plurality, and do so in a environment that has changed a lot since 2010. The essential role of the Catalan public media could be seen with the quality of the informative fish channeled by TV3 correspondents, with the territorialized information made by the IT professionals and by Catalunya Radio, with the formigueta work that makes the programs like InfoK, essential because the new generations also have right to information in a format, with a context and some forms that allow them to interpret them themselves. This type of information quality can hardly be held in private media, and much less with the equanimity and priority that TV3 and Catalunya Radio offer. We also have an important role to play in making an audiovisual public offer in an environment that is more hostile to Catalonia and in a society that is gradually abandoning Catalonia as usual. And this second mandate mark is to establish the bases on which the Catalan public communication media must work. We ask them to face a scene that will change; to enter social networks; to compete with audiovisual markets in front of non-linear content platforms; to attempt to generate content that is already directly created in networks such as TikTok, YouTube or Instagram; to incorporate creativity and talents born in networks; to believe that it is contained in codes and formats that not only nine generations have after consuming, but also codes that the old generations are incorporating. And we ask that they do so with the criteria of quality, plurality, defending democratic values, with information that must be true, contrasted, impartial, rigorous and respectful of users' rights. And we ask that they do so as well as the main catalan bastion in a fairly hostile audiovisual environment and with a State trying to minimize our language. In addition, we ask that the quality of the jobs of the Catalan media professionals is guaranteed. At public media we need to provide resources and tools to do all these tasks. And this second warrant is one of those. In this hemisphere there are groups that, while having different visions of what the public media in our country should be like, we share the need to hold on to it, and of the strong, as a country as much as a social one. In this sense, I want to thank the effort, to make it clear, that some groups have analyzed, and also the effort of the deputy of Juntes for Catalonia Pep Riera to be the government's voice at the time of negotiating them. And I understand that this rota mandate will not be the liking of some group that has the proposal to make TV3, Catalonia Radio disappear and all that seems to be the mass of the audio-visual mark. And, if I may, the president, I would like to make a more personal comment. I joined the parliament in mid-legislature in front of the repression that took all the political rights from my companies and companies like the Lower Pain, the Forcadell Carme, in Raül Romeva, in Carles Mundó or the Oriol Junqueras. But I think I could find a real vocation, a real pleasure, a space where I could develop and deploy the skills that I have learned from politics to the union world, the municipal world or activism. I want to thank all the Members and Members of all the groups with whom I have negotiated and worked, and especially the Republic Group, which has given me this opportunity and allowed me to enjoy the privilege of exercising as a Member. Even though it's likely that I'll be back in the hemicle the next legislature sooner than later, politics never knows. I'd like to take advantage of it to ask you to forgive the one I've done a little guitar for in the courts. Before he talked, we're all part and master of this network communication universe, which we're part of this ecosystem. And, as I said, I'm also part of this ecosystem, the problem and the solution. When we talk now about the work to be done by public communication media, we also have an individual responsibility as politicians to improve this ecosystem. I think we're all trying. In any case, there are two things that have not changed since 2010, where was presented the first marc mandate, and this 2020, we present the second. The first is Pilar Rahola's pre-eminence of third parties and political programs. And the second is that I've used the networks to express my political thinking as I feel, and that I'm vehemently arguing about my ideas to the networks as I do in this window. I hope that in the next parliamentary term we can see ourselves for the Parliament, and whoever does not, find us, debate, add or counter and, when necessary, also discuss us for the cartels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.19.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Riera has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.20.0	The first and only rota mandate of the public audiovisual system approved until now date of February 2010 and had a duration of six years. Therefore, there was two more in prorogus and two more in ago that formally expired. And, therefore, it was time to approve the second. If it didn't happen before, it wasn't just left behind. It's not possible to obviate the context. We have been making parliamentarianism in an exceptional context for years. We don't have to forget. In this country, things have passed far-reaching over the last few years. We'll approve it today because if it hasn't happened before, it wasn't because of this Member or my group. And I say this because in the past plenary the head of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Iceta, said that the groups that we support to the government had this proposal for a March mandate from the butxaca at the last hour. Maybe I didn't know when she said it, but she's lying. This proposal for a mandate is exactly the same as it was almost a year ago that I passed to all parliamentary groups – all of them – to make it serve as the basis for presenting it together. Each school will be able to say what answer it gave to my proposal. Yes, there was a response, precisely, from the Socialist Group, from Mr Pérez, but this response was a broader alternative text and with some sensitive changes made on the basis of our document and with the same structure. And, finally, that's how we got to this Ple. The strong mandate of the audiovisual public system is not a law, but it is as important as a law. Public media in general is regulated from the Audiovisual Communication Law and the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, also with the specific law. But the audio-visual mandate is the playing field that highlights the rules that establish these laws and update the audiovisual context, much changing in the last decades. Said in another way, set the public service missions of the media and adapt them to an innovative and changing audiovisual scene. In this sense, the mandate mark is not a rule, but it is the precept mark to deploy the program contracts that the different public providers of audiovisual services must sign with the reference administrations. The programme contracts do establish the conditions under which the public service is to be developed. All kinds of conditions, but one of the most important is to ensure a multi-annual economic stabilisation of the media. A disability that, as it may be said, cannot predict survivors' dysfunctions, such as the retroactive change in the VAT application criteria applied by the Spanish Government, and which has implied an affection for public media. This March mandate that we will vote establishes the mission of public service in five foundational pillars to be completed by public media: as democratic value generators, as social value generators, as cultural value generators, as economic value generators and as technological value generators. Let me point out the main ideas of each mission. When it comes to democratic value, it refers to very serious questions: the responsibility of public media to encourage us to have a critical and informed citizenship, to guarantee access by the population to freedom of information, to promote public debate, to guarantee the visibility of pluralism and social diversity. And in this current time of proliferation of the use of social networks, public media must be present to ensure the truth of the contents, to be reliable referents before misinformation and false news, and to protect the rights of children, persons with disabilities and minorities. What it does to the mission of generating social value, from the outset, is that the public media offer an open and universal and free access service. And that already distinguishes them every time more than the nine forms of communication. But they must also be distinguished by cross-cutting and inclusiveness, participation and citizen interaction for the issuance of public media as a tool for social cohesion. In short, creating a community in a complicated scene of multiplication of the audiovisual offer. We are also talking about ‘cultural value'. In this respect, the Catalan public media have an irreplaceable mission: to enhance, update and enrich Catalonia's national and cultural identity. Unreplaceable because Catalan language and culture have to survive in a media and political context that, in the best of cases, silences or invisibles them and, in the worst of cases, unlawfully engages them in residualization and, therefore, extinction. Yesterday, without going any further, a judgment of the High Court of Justice dynamite linguistic immersion in teaching. Therefore, it is essential that public media inform, believe, produce content and serve Catalan and in their own languages – the Catalan and the Aran – and distribute them massively. Related to this, there is the generation of economic value. Public media must act as a driving force for the country's audiovisual industry, but they must also be promoters of the country's full range of activities that can generate economic and social impact. And finally, the technological bloc, where public media must lead the constant innovation in this camp. All this and more is this rota mandate, but it must also be an opportunity. It doesn't happen every day, that a document like this is approved. In fact, it will be the second time that happens in the history of this Parliament, and that is why I think it is also an opportunity because the leaders of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and all the professionals of public media reinforce their commitment and their responsibility for the values that are defined in this mandate, values that they already know, but in certain respects they need a repulsion. For us, it is an opportunity to strengthen the model of public media like national media. A few national and Catalanocentric media, a concept that doesn't have to see ethnocentrically, all the contrary; it's not just about looking at ends, it's about having a catal reference framework to open us up to the world and to explain the world with Catalan optics, and it's about an uncomplicated media centered on the missions that fall within this brand mandate. The remarcation is uncomplicated. Because the founding mission of public media was and must be the backbone of a Catalan and Catalan communication space. That's how they'll be real vertebrators of a company that's changed over the last few years. And this is where there are groups that attack public media, precisely, because what they don't like is this changing reality that media must reflect. And that's how public media must exercise audience leadership, are uncomplicated and brave, with a program that doesn't just respond to the audience's attention, that doesn't just look for what interests people, but, above all, what is important to people. A program of pes, of democratic and social depth, fraught with Catalan identity and culture and scrupulous in the use and protection of the catalá. In short, a value-generating programming and attitude, value-generating that sets this brand mandate that we need to approve today. I'm done. This legislature ended and the truth is that I cannot fully share certain graces and satisfactions that have been expressed here. For what it does to the strictly parliamentary task, my group has often made the effort to clear the context so that we can reach good and necessary agreements for the Catalans, for the country. An effort that has not been made by groups that support the success of Spanish governments that have applied repression, because they have done nothing because the political conflict between Catalonia and the State can be resolved politically. On the contrary. In my particular case, I do have the satisfaction of having participated in the elaboration of three laws, which have been approved unanimously: the Law of the Corporation, of which I was appointed rapporteur, and two laws of the field of salvation. My unconditional thanks, yes, for all the staff of Parliament. But the fact is that we started this legislature with political prisoners and exiles, and we end it with political prisoners and exiles, with more convictions and persecutions for the powers of the State and with a smaller Parliament will rise. I can't be satisfied, because I was coming, we came to restore the legitimate government and carry out the U of October's mandate. The repression and lack of unity at the time of planting-faces have not allowed it. Therefore, the legislature was over, but not the work. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.21.0	Thank you, Congressman. To defend the papers presented, it has the word now, in the first place, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.22.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, public communication media are, above all, the guarantors of the right to information of the citizenry. If I hadn't said it thirty, forty, fifty times in this pharystol, I wouldn't have said it, and today I also wanted to repeat it, today more than ever, because that's what we're talking about. As such, public communication media have the mission of providing a quality public service, which is compromised by the ethical and democratic principles defined in the Statute of Catalonia, and also in the promotion of Catalan culture and language. The detail of this public issue which sets it is precisely the mandate of the Catalan public audiovisual system, a document approved and debated by the Catalan Parliament, which governs all Catalan public audiovisual media, both those of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, and those of local administrations. And we've only had one, approved in 2010, valid for six years and longer than expired. Obviously, it's about renewing it, updating it, approving it. Today is good news that we approve of a new mandate for public audiovisual media from all over Catalonia. That's why our proactivity today is approaching this proposal, as well as examining it to improve it. But, still, let's not stop lamenting the forms. Unlike the previous March mandate, this one did not start from a plural debate, from a consensus document, to arrive at Ple. We all failed to do it well – all of us. We've wasted time, we haven't put ourselves up to anything for a while. I think I should do this self-criticism. But I don't think it's a good formula to wear it from the two support groups to the government as a matter of urgency and at the end of the legislature. The form is not worthy of what we are approving today. As it goes, I want to talk about the text and content of this text. The text recovers from what was already fixed in good part by the previous mandate, to indicate, therefore, precisely, that the public media must offer information territorially balanced, impartial, rigorous on the questions of topicality and guarantee access to all social, political, cultural, associative, representative... groups, guarantee plurality. They must also help the consolidation and expansion of the language, culture, identity and international projection of Catalonia, reflecting the diversity of our current society, because Catalonia is multiple and diverse. They must also promote the development of the Catalan audiovisual industry, while encouraging audiovisual production in Catalonia. They must boost the supply of content through new social communication media, new technologies. This has also been brought up to date, obviously, in this rota mandate. And all these functions have to be completed from wanting to be a reference model of quality and innovation. We share these principles, we share them in the previous marc mandate, we share them, obviously, now; the proposal that leads today to the approval of the manté. And we have provided, on the basis of papers, the recovery of some important aspects that were in the previous mandate and that had occurred in the present, of the necessary guarantees of working and professional conditions, because that is how public communication means can be independent of the governments of which they are pengin, and also of the guarantee of working conditions of undertakings with which the same public communication means work. It is also clear that the values of public communication media must follow the markings for the Statute of Catalonia, and that there must be no competition between public communication media, but cooperation. Elements that were in the previous marc mandate and that in this, therefore, we found to be missing. We are grateful that all these items have been incorporated, and therefore we believe that this is a good mandate. Perhaps, with more time, with more debate, there might have been better, more suitable for the moment and, above all, more consensual, than it is important. Public communication means are not of a majority, they are from all over the country, and therefore we should count on an extensive support in these principles that are marked by the Catalonian Parliament. But, well, that's not how we get there. It is good news that we resolve this issue, that we have a strong mandate again, but with this we do not hold our faces. We approved a necessary and much demanded change in governance with the Law of Corporation and ACC, but it did not apply. The two organs continue to lapse, because the Parliament has not renewed them, because the large groups of this chamber have not been able to agree to renew them. Neither did the second phase of compromise review of the Law of the Corporation to adapt it to the present time. The only change we made to the law was in the elements of governance, but there is much more to do in this law. Nor has the Audiovisual Law been reviewed, which, as a minimum, we should do in order to adapt it to the European directive of two years ago, which obliged transposition into the territorial laws on the subject. Neither has a new program contract been made between the government and the corporation, which is essential to ensure the stability of resources to the public media, as well as its independence from the government. Approval of the mandate was necessary, it is important, but the list of the pendants is so long that I have the taste that remains is bitter. And that's how I got caught up in this room, where I've devoted many, many hours of my life to eight years later. And that's what happened to this subject, but I think it's a lot of meaning. I came in from being a journalist, also involved in local politics, directly in charge of the Corporate Control Commission, among other issues, but on this issue clearly as the spokesman in my parliamentary group. And a good part of these eight years, among others, I've been pursuing corporate law reform. Finally, we have achieved this in part, as I explained earlier, but the political blockade of the blocs into which the Catalan policy has been converted in recent years has not been implemented. And out with this feeling, as the gods say, of the list of dues hanging too long; they have been eight years trying, constructively, as it has been in this marc mandate, making reviews, impacting, advancing, but with the feeling that the hangings always leave the bitter taste. And so, with corporate issues, but also with social issues, of equality, of childhood, of salvation, of the local world, of the Electoral Law..., the issues I've focused more on these past eight years. And I'm convinced that I've done everything I can in every one of these issues that I've dealt with, and that in some I've left my little commitment. But it wasn't enough. The lock loop that we've entered as the country weighs heavily. In all these matters during these eight years I have suffered, the people I wanted to represent with the work that I was doing have suffered. As it is, I am satisfied with what I am after, for what I have shared and for what I have left behind in some themes or others. But obviously, today I want to take advantage of my people's support: first, from the initiative, which is the one that 8 years ago supported me because I was in Parliament; then, from Catalonia to Comú Pode. Also thank the councils and learnings of all the Members and Members with whom I have shared a group; the work of the technical teams, of all the staff of Parliament, obviously, and also the patience and confidence, many times, of the Members and Members with whom we have worked in this legislature and in the past. I'll miss you. But, above all, I want to ask all of you what you will continue and what you will come to with renewed forces that you look forward to, and side by side, and that you stop looking back and forth constantly. You're done once and for all with this country blockade. We need to do politics with capitals, in black and in sub-rattled; politics, more than ever. Fire us. And above all, above all, hello, and take good care of you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mr David Pérez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.24.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the whole of the intervention of the Trinitro, if I may, companion and co-worker. We've had a hard time, but we've had a good time, and I think every one of us has done what we can in the parliamentary pocket. And thank Congresswoman Marta Ribas as well. And I also take this opportunity to tell you that your expert on these issues for the rest of the Members, at least from the committee, I think it has been a very important element, and I wish you a lot of luck and a lot of uncertainty in your new stage. I can't say the same thing about the intervention made by the Junts for Cat representative, and more so when he dedicated himself to insulting my parliamentary group president and lying boldly – and lying boldly. Because, honestly, I didn't want to make this intervention, but I have to say. Indeed, you have submitted a proposal for a mandate that has been in place for some time now, and we, the parliamentary group, have made some comments. We made statements for him. Where are they, these papers? Have we talked? Did he say anything to me? Did he tell me if he liked them? No, no, No, no, You have submitted your proposal – yours. I was perfectly explained by Congresswoman Ribas. And from here on out, we've come back to introduce a new theme. There's no way. We're not doing the same as February 11, 2010. We're not approving a warrant again. It's not true. Because on the 11th of February of 2010 a March mandate was approved for the vast majority of this Parliament. And it cost a lot to get it. There was the Member of my parliamentary group, who was the rapporteur at the time of the proposal, Mr Joan Ferran..., who, if I may, will read a few words, in this very debate, of Mr Joan Ferran: "This has been a marked mandate extended in time, it is true, because we have been discussing it for many months. But it has been extended in time, precisely, to achieve what we can do today, to achieve, Mrs Ortega, the members of the Convergence and Union Group, to be able to add the maximum number of items that you say or propose to us, at the time we told them that our philosophy of drafting it was what I was trying to explain to them at this time. It is not the same to approve a March mandate with the votes of a majority that supports the Government, and also of another group in the chamber, which with the first group in the chamber or a majority of one hundred and twenty members. Who was our proposal? So very simple. This mandate should be approved since February 2018, and what we wanted to do in our proposal, in our vision..., we wanted to incorporate all those technological and legislative changes that are occurring and that have occurred. Some have already commented on them by Mr. Rodriguez. In 2005, the Audiovisual Communication Law of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia already explains to us that it has experienced a very great evolution. There have been new consumption habits and viewing of audiovisual programs and contents is possible at any time, anywhere, and through multiple devices connected to digital networks. To adapt audiovisual regulation to this evolution, the European Union Directive, 2018/1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018, of audiovisual communication services was adopted. This new European legislation has been translated into different governments. The Spanish Government has also recently published a preliminary draft of the General Audiovisual Communication Law, which has now, precisely, completed the public hearing phase and is in the General Courts. A law that will certainly be approved in 2021. In a very brief way, according to the new legislation, the audiovisual communication services are within the scope of this legislation, including audiovisual content in social media; it establishes the general principles of audiovisual communication, which, among other considerations, must be respectful of human dignity, with gender equality, the image of women, and it establishes the rights of persons who are users of audiovisual communication services to a plural audiovisual communication and which does not encourage violence, discrimination or hatred. And it also provides for codes of conduct and self-regulation and co-regulation as effective instruments. Well, we wanted to translate these European directives into our proposal; there was no luck – there was no luck – but we tried. I think it was our obligation to try. I am also telling you, as soon as there are European changes, this will have to be changed, because we are obliged to complete the European directives. Therefore, we must make it clear that this is not the best way to do things. We agree with the representative of In Comú Pueblo, and above all, on a subject like this. The program contract is an agreement between the government and the public media and there was a missing piece, and I think the legislator... I wasn't there at the time, but they were very certain to hear that the missing piece was the broad parliamentary agreement, which is the March mandate. There has been no programme contract, there has been no agreement, there has been a strong mandate to approve, unfortunately, it is not with a broad parliamentary agreement. So, we're fatal. It is true that we have approved a law of governance, the law of the tripartite. The law of two thirds. Great success, we're back in the year 2000. Yes, don't apply it – don't apply it. We haven't been able to apply it. We are all responsible, surely, but I believe that, in principle, so do the groups of the majority. Mirin, I have to sum up what this legislature has been about in communication media: a marc mandate, a disaster; a programme contract, a disaster; the reform of the CCMA Law, perfect, we have returned to the year 2000, but we have not been able to reach the necessary agreements; economically, the "body", the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, is a disaster. Each year requires a pressupost enlargement of 12, 17, 30_extreme millions for public communication media. Hearings reflect that there is a very important part of the population that has stopped watching TV3. We're a long way from the BBC model. And, above all, one more issue, there are also attacks on journalists, we have already commented many times on the same commission. And I'd also like to reflect on a case that happened, which is Anna Grau, huh? a person who wanted to disagree, to differ from what many people think, and here there was a range of ‘killers who are basically dedicated to social networks, to annihilating any dissenting or different or dissenting opinion. Therefore, and especially when these "kills do it from the radio and public television, as Jair Dominguez did, it is absolutely unacceptable. Absolutely unacceptable insult to a person who thinks differently from public radio and television. So, in this sense, all of our support for journalist Anna Grau. He asked the Emperor of the Madrid Press Association, the Federation of Spanish Journalists Associations, to make a call to the direction of Spanish Television. And let me know, this journalist – who has all my support; not, all our support, of our parliamentary group – that things cannot be done in this way. Well, let's get it over with. And I do want to thank all the colleagues of the committee, especially the majority, Mr Riera, I think it was a pleasure all along, I thank you for all your intervention. I wish them very good Nadal, good holidays. Take good care of yourselves, take good care of the great people, especially, too. And a good change of year, too, huh? 2021 is much better than 2020. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and to fix its position, has the word Mr David Mejía. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.26.0	Well, thank you, President. Parliamentarians, Members of Parliament, are still curious that this motion for a resolution is being submitted to the last plenary. We wear many years, many years, the different parliamentary groups and various legislatures demanding and demanding that this mandate be carried out, and that, therefore, it is poised once and for all..., that there is a programme contract in which it is possible to establish the concrete objectives that should be held by our public communication media. Today we are being presented with this proposal after we have had a rota mandate expired since 2016, or since 2018, if we count on the supplementary extension, but once more things are done, on the part of the groups of the Government, in a little transparent way, entering the subject into the Bureau of Parliament without being in the order of the day established. From our group we think and believe that this issue should be as consensual as possible, as different opposition groups have said. And that means a lot of things. It means being able to work together, it means being able to see 'in a table all the groups represented in Parliament and seek, therefore, this broad consensus that we need. More, when we understand that this is the basis of what our public media should be for the next six years. And it didn't do that. And we see that the government's will is simply to get along with its parish. Yes, it did bring in a rota warrant document, but it was not really sought to work together or seriously. So as it is, it did, for example, modify the Law of the body. A whole legislature to be able to seek consensus and to be able to seek collaboration and is doorway through the back door and in the last Ple. But if we go into the background and content, we also see things that we don't like and that continue to use political concepts in criteria accounts that should be the ones to rule. For example, one more time, it speaks of the català as its own language and it is excluded, as it could not otherwise be, also, on the part of the separatist parties, in its conjunction of the text, the castle. To the detriment of our understanding that public media are, too, a tool for the promotion and protection of catalá, it cannot be obvious that two official languages coexist in our land. And that all two – both – are vertebrate vehicles of society, not just one. Begin to hear it, independent lords. This obsessiveness always removes the majority language of the conjunction of the Catalans of the public space we cannot share. It's more like fighting. And it's more, we've done it, we do it and we'll do it all the time, with firmness. The exclusion of the castella from the scoca programming frontally with what you say to the respect of the Constitutional Court, that is that the promotion of Catalan language in no case can suppose the exclusion of the castella as the vehicle language. That is, the usual and normal use in public media. The richness of having two languages cannot be lost because of the deliris separatists and the little plural vision they have of Catalan society. A plural view that is claimed, but that practice is not complete. And we've been able to observe that and we've been able to report it far from the different commissions of the corporation, the control of the corporation, that we've had in this legislature. Continued interviews with convicts for justice. Interviews for terrorism, corruption crimes, crimes against the public administration. This is not the plurality that needs to be demanded on public television. The style book is about to complete it, and because all workers and/or collaborators are submissive to it. And we don't see any kind of regulation and obligation because it's complex in an effective way. The same way that diversity of views in the context of programming exist or the statements that can be made, on the part of their workers, for example, through social networks, since in one of the interventions, therefore, there has been much talk, right? , of this new stage and of these new communication tools. The values established in this or previous mandate may be correct, but there is no concrete guarantee that if they are vulnerable, they will have their consequences. And that's a very important point, if we really want to have some public media representing objectivity, representing neutrality, respecting different political views and plurality. We are tired of seeing daily how, in an unpunished way, all those who are not part of the separatist orbit are treated. We are tired of constantly insulting constitutionalists without anyone before I say anything about this situation. And we also want to give support from here, from this Faristol, to journalist Anna Grau. And we have an organ that costs us 6_million euros a year, like the CAC, the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, which should strive for respect for political pluralism and the compliment of constitutional and statutory principles, but shines for its absence. We are also tired of seeing how our media, those that we all pay for Catalans, are used – I insist once more: that we all pay for Catalans, think as they think – to make separatist propaganda without anyone from their own direction calling for the compliment of the book of style and the values set in it. And we can't be accomplices to this. They are not complicit in the misguided and partisan use of media that should belong to everyone. If we really want to have some public communication media that are referents in the sector, the way to bring this question to the vote is not the right one. If we really want the consensus of all the parliamentary groups, the ways should have been very different. If you are looking for transversality, which is included and which is massive, as it precisely establishes, the text that 'nsha presented, you will have to look for mechanisms so that it is so. And we don't see it anywhere. The day you want to work in this direction in a clear, honest way, we will be there. But until then we will not fail to criticize the barbarity of the day that is realized by the direction of the corporation and our public media, and that the only one that they achieve is that much of the Catalan society does not watch TV3, nor listen to Catalonia Radio. And that's a problem. It's also about resources. And it's not just resources that our public media have, it's all about assumptions, it's all about extraordinary contributions every year. And its taxation should be real and aimed at providing the public service that it must have as its objective, as well as empowering, also, the audiovisual sector in Catalonia, which is very powerful, or which was very powerful. But one more time, we find that these resources are not used, for example, to cover the territory or to offer programming according to their functions that they claim, but they are lost with the contract of the usual. With the contracting of their friends, of the same producers and of producing productions destined for their theme, to the only theme of TV3, to the only theme of the communication media, that is the process, that is teleprocesses. How much money has been lost with pro-productive productions, with programs of the same nature and segregated in their contents? The principles of efficiency, efficiency and transparency shine for their absence. If they want our support, they begin to understand that public television and radio are not girls to satisfy their delusions, but to provide a quality service and out of any political order. If you want our support, bring your political commissioners from the direction of the corporation. If you want our support, you understand for once what should be any public medium. If you want our support, raise any suspicion of corruption, fraud or friendship that you have in the media. Now, you, as you have done for many years, are, unfortunately, rude to the image of TV3 and Catalunya Radio and its plurality. With this motion for a resolution, separatist parties once again demonstrate that they conceive of public media as an agitating apparatus and a propaganda apparatus. From the time of Pujol, nationalism has used media for a long time a project of social engineering based on the teaching of hatred in Spain and the understatement of Catalans that we want to feel Catalans and Spanishs. And this motion for a resolution is a paradigmatic example of this situation. So I'm not counting on us to continue feeding your story and your goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.27.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.28.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Now the city deputy was talking about a paradigmatic issue. I think it is a paradigmatic thing to approve this mandate at this later session, this later day of the session and this parliamentary term. And lately, I've always started my interventions with regard to communication means, or to the "body of this" we haven't talked much, have we? We haven't talked much. I also believe that we are late, but it would be unfair to accuse Junts exclusively for Catalonia and the Republican Left of this delay. It's all a question. This rota mandate is on the table for a long time. And, therefore, I attach myself to the self-criticism raised by Mrs Ribas in this respect. Is that good news coming along? Yeah. Wasn't that the only thing we had? You're obvious. We haven't sunk a few. Some minor setbacks, we've changed the law, today we're going to approve this warrant. And we won't do it with a minority, that would also be unfair. Adding four parliamentary groups to the approval of this March mandate in this parliamentary term, Member of the PSC, is not short. Seventy-seven Members will support this March mandate. Well, that's fine. What do they generate great expectations, what do they celebrate? Neither do you. Therefore, moderation. We've done a very small job. He appreciates the work done, because, as a matter of fact, someone has done it. And I don't share some of the questions that have been put on the table. Before the deputy of Ciutadans spoke of teleprocesses. Not only was the warrant marc expired. Your speech on TV is also out of date. It's been three years since 2017. I understand what we're talking about. I want to hear and I want to put myself in his place to hear what his criticism of public media, TV3 and Catalunya Radio is. What I don't understand and seem intolerable to me is this constant attack on the right to free journalism. Here's a point. This rota mandate, as has already been said, has five important values that lay on the table. The democratic value: it is what refers to plurality. In this sense, we share the headline: TV3 and Catalunya Radio are not plural enough. But let's not buy it, not just in Ciutadans, but in the PSC, the logic that they must be plural because they represent this chamber of white people, mostly heterosexual, and that, mostly, he saw in large cities, to say some examples of what is not plural. It lacks plurality, but lacks the social class reality of our country. A social value, too, I insist on: giving visibility and seeing to the invisible, to the people who live on the margins, to the people who are not recognized. Yesterday we talked about the law we passed, the equal treatment and non-discrimination. Attention to this law: it incorporates important questions that make reference to public communication media. Important questions about the role of public media in working for equality and non-discrimination. And in this sense, TV3 and Catalunya Radio have a lot of work to do. A cultural value: language – Catalan and Arabic. I don't feel them claiming the orange on public television. I only feel them claim the castle. And, surely, all the languages that are spoken in Catalonia are the ones that are most excluded. In this sense, also for this cultural value, we want to put on the table, once more, the need to advance in reciprocity. He's a good model. It's a good model in finance logic, in resource saving logic. To cooperate between television and public media in the Catalan Countries. Between TV3, IB3, At Punt are due to experiences that are successful, that turn the Catalan Countries into a language logic and a common culture logic and memory. We can make this mark. The economic value. TV3_has to be an engine of audiovisual companies in this country as well. Not the only one, because we don't want totally privatized and outsourced media. It is necessary to value the workers and the workers of the house. And a technological value, a challenge that still takes a long time to move forward in everything it does to digitalization and the advent. Steps have been taken, but not enough. I'm sorry to interrupt my speech, President. He hasn't started the time, and I can be talking a lot. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.29.0	You're right, Congresswoman. In any case, understand 'it's a nadalenca courtesy, say, the more time I have accidentally provided it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.30.0	Understood. They will understand that the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, which we have had to synthesize over our possibilities, we appreciate this privilege in no way. I keep going. Democratic, social, cultural, economic, technological value. In this sense, we believe that much more progress can be made towards plurality from a truly fair place, and not to think that what this chamber represents is what the public media should automatically represent. I've said it many times to the director of TV3, especially, but we could also extend it to Catalonia Radio. False analysts. Pilar Rahola and Sergi Sol are not analysts, they are not scientists of the social reality of our country. They are people who defend the speech of concrete parties. And I don't want the CUP representatives defending the CUP's look at the media. What I want is the people who fight, the people who from a class perspective are not represented, the people who can pose economic alternatives, obviously linked to an ideological look of the country, but I do not want militants of my party doing exclusively of Tertulians. We do not demand this; this is not plurality; this is false plurality. And when we talk about de-governing the government of the "body" we also talk about that. It will allow me – some time I have already said this –, Mr Pérez..., I remember when we discussed the law, the modification of the law in which the PSC, if I am not mistaken, defended that there were twelve members. And, in an informal conversation, I insisted, they commented to me: "Home, if we have twelve, you can put yours. I'm telling you, we haven't heard anything. We don't want this; we don't want to put someone of our own there. I insist, an informal conversation, an informal conversation that posed this on the table. A defense, to end, of the journalists, of the journalists of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, who have even rejected fexist attacks. Speeches against public media end up in hate against public media and against their journalists. The right to freedom of information for the citizen as well as for journalists and professionals who exercise it is a right of speech that we demand, think what journalists think, do it in català, do it in castella or do it in orange. It's a fundamental right. It's a symptom of a democratic society. It's a tool to advance towards freedom. The international principles of the journalistic ethics of UNESCO, in its eighth article, indicate that the good journalist defends the universal values of humanism; in particular, pau, democracy, the rights of the man, social progress and national liberation and respect for the right of every people to decide freely – to decide freely. And some journalists who, according to the same UNESCO code, in their new article, and I quote textually, "must have an aesthetic compromise, I repeat, "for the universal values of humanism. So from here, too, a defense to all the professionals in the house. Require that this warrant be used with funding. It is very important that you have recourse to the time to strengthen the audiovisual production network and audiovisual undertakings of this country, which are very weakened, and that you have the recourse to be able to advance in the times that have already been set on the table. And I end up with a reflection that I've done more than once, and you also have to see... and I want to do it from somewhere built. It's not an arbitrary attack. All the motions, motions for resolutions that especially the majority group of the Parliament of Catalonia has put on the table, the Ciutadans Group, this construction of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, of public media, as an exclusively propagandist tool, as a tool to the service of, exclusively, have made us lose the opportunity to be able to make criticisms there where we would surely find consensus. And I'm criticizing them because we might have found places in common, and their vehemence and their lack of flexibility at the time of attacking public media in politics, in concrete terms, and in the material they have put forward, they have made who we want and want to denounce lack of plurality. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – Now that I'm done – we're forced to defend and defend public media, because you want them to disappear. And at this point we won't find each other. Thank you. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Manuel Reyes has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.32.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, today the groups that support the Government bring us, as a matter of extraordinary urgency, at the last plenary session of the legislature, the framework mandate of the public audiovisual system in Catalonia. And it's not that they bring it in on the discount time, it's not that they bring it when it's more than expired. A framework contract that ended in 2016, which was extended for two years until 2018 and now brought on the last day of the last plenary session of this legislature, almost when we are entering into the year 2021. This is late, very late. They have had a lot of time throughout this legislature. What have their forces dedicated to? They could have changed, they could have brought in, they could have agreed a document so that all political groups today could vote in favour, which is not going to happen. And they bring it in urgently and extraordinarily. This already reminds us that you are saying goodbye to the legislature and that you are afraid, you are very afraid of those ballot boxes that we will soon have Catalans. This already sounds like goodbye to this government. From the People's Group we have been very critical, and we continue to be critical, with the management of public audiovisual media in Catalonia. Media that repeatedly seem more at the service of the party cause than at the service of all Catalans. And it is that the verb « seem» is a very generous verb for you. We could remind you how last year, in the midst of the debate on the national election campaign, you received, with all luxury of yellow ties, the candidates who were running for office in those elections. And you're not a TV3 partyer? And you don't play TV3? Is this the plural way you need to receive candidates for general elections? Obviously, the director of TV3 is a director rejected by this Parliament, where we have widely said that he is a person at the service of a given cause. But you keep him in charge. In addition, TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio cost us almost 300_million_euro cold. Not three, not 33, but 300. That's what TV3 costs. That is why it is understood that we are the autonomous community with the most fiscal pressure, with eighteen taxes, is that we lead the autonomous tax ranking, but we also lead the ranking of the cost of autonomous televisions. Three hundred and millions in Catalonia, when in other communities, e.g. Andalusia, it costs almost half, 156 million euros, and in the Basque Country, with its language, with Basque and Spanish, 145. Galicia, 100_million_de_euros, three times less than in Catalonia ; Telemadrid, 77; Valencia, 56; Aragón, 50. But Catalonia, 300_million_euros. We pray to public television, to the Catalan media, with 300_million_de_euros. Why? Because it's the ram of the separatist cause. Because it is the main means that you have to say how badly you live in Spain and how well we would live in a hypothetical independent Catalonia. That's why they water TV3 with so many millions of euros when they are so much needed right now in other aspects, in social services, in health care, in education..., 300_million_de_euros in propaganda. And, of course, Catalan public television, every year, in deficit. In 2017 it closed with 7,4_million deficit, in 18, with 11,3, in 19, with 12, and in 2020, is that we do not arrive, 15_million deficit also in this year. So, a bottomless well. In addition, an autonomous television that is practically a legion: 2,350 workers, almost 165_million_euros. And who's to blame for all this? The Government of the Government of Catalonia. Voices well paid to attack parties that think differently, to impose the unique thought in Catalonia. But even in the memory of the 2018 corporation, they blamed the autonomous television numbers on Mediaset, Atresmedia and Madrid. You blamed Madrid for TV3 closing in red numbers. Therefore, from the People's Party we will continue to defend an autonomous television that is plural, open to all Catalans, but that is not a black hole in the taxpayer's pocket, as it has been so far. And, therefore, our group will not support this framework contract and will continue to demand that the Government make a public television, of all Catalans, and not at the service of the separatist cause, that divides us and breaks the coexistence in Catalonia. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mr Josep Riera has a late turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.34.0	Thank you, President. Very quick. Mr. Pérez, you know I made you a proposal to agree on your point, and we have it written down. But he preferred to tell me to lie. It's the same. Still, I'm still using it in private, because we've understood each other more. Mr Mejía and Mr Reyes, they have acknowledged – if not, Mr Mejía – that I have come up with a proposal, this proposal that we have been debating for many months. But he didn't say I called two meetings. Did you come to either of the two? Has anyone from the People's Group come to these meetings? I repeat, it is a shame that it was not possible to agree on a joint document. The intention was, and that is why today we discussed this proposal for a March mandate that we registered the deputies of the Republican Left and the Juntes groups for Catalonia. A text that has improved with the papers presented for the Comú Pode group, but we did not accept, I said, the Socialist Group's emena, because in reality it was a question of totality. Therefore, I would like to say that the text that we are voting on is the one that incorporates Juntes 1 and 2 for Catalonia and Esquerra, for technical reasons asked for the major issue, so that we can process the document submitted. The document which also incorporates items 1, 4, 5 and 6 of the En Comú group may and three transactions with items 2, 3 and 7 of the same group. And I take this opportunity to thank Congresswoman Marta Ribas for the good work that I think we have done to get to present this consolidated text at the end. Thank you also to Mrs Sánchez and Mr Rodriguez for their positive follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Proposal for a resolution on amnesty]] [[250-01627/12]] After this debate, which we will vote on in due course, as the rest of us know, at the end of the day, let us move on to the next point, which is the debate on the motion for a resolution on amnesty, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To defend this proposal, first of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, the Member of Parliament, Natalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.36.0	Good morning again, deputies, deputies. In the past, parties and sovereign entities presented, in the old Model prison, the agreement to push an amnesty law. We did it to the Model, a space witness of repression against generations of Catalans who gave themselves to the struggle. Amnesty is a cry for freedom for those we fight for. "Amnesty is not a strange or unknown word for whom he fights or for the history of this country. I'm referring to the amnesty of 77, for example, which was a double-sized weapon. On one side, it was the conquest of the anti-franchism to remove from prison the people who had fought against the dictatorship, but on the other, it exonerated the botxins. At that time he was not given the importance he had; optimism and hope were greater. In time we have seen how important that impunity was for the survival of the protagonists of the regime, who have continued to have a great influence between economic, religious and political elites, and, in particular, in some parts of the State, such as the police and the judiciary. It is the persistence of Francoist culture and militarism that is still more ancient that makes the State only have repressive responses to the yearnings for the self-determination of the Catalan people. Someone may ask why now, why Together for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP are presenting a motion for a resolution on amnesty. To process an amnesty law. On the 21st of December, a President-in-Office will sign the call for an election. This legislature, the dotzena, has been a legislature misled by repression. In the investiture proceedings, in the suspension of deputies legitimately chosen for the Catalan people and in the intrusion of the courts constantly and repeatedly about what can be said and what cannot be said in this chamber. We cannot talk about monarchy in the Catalonian Parliament, nor can we say that Bourbons are thieves and corrupts. In the Parliament of Catalonia we have no right to talk about self-determination, nor to demand it, nor to claim it. The Parliament of Catalonia has intervened. Let's get this over with. It is important that we conclude this parliamentary term by speaking and demanding amnesty, because it is an anti-repressive political framework that sets the conditions to do something very simple, that is to do independent politics in freedom. We want to do independent politics without ending in prison, in exile or with judicial proceedings, because we have right; the contrary is anti-democratic. There are many people who have been retaliated, almost three thousand hours away. Almost three thousand people retaliated to exercise the right to self-determination, to defend the right to self-determination. The other day I was asked about an interview if it was not a contradiction that the CUP presented a motion for a resolution and an agreement on amnesty with Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana, taking into account that they are a government that retaliates independenceists. I replied that the contradiction is his. The contradiction is that the Government of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left are demanding an amnesty while now it is judging in Marcel, Badalona, to protest against an overseas union. And on charges of the prosecution and the generality for many years in prison. The contradiction is theirs. And there has also been a general case against independence, and we are asking for this amnesty for the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners, for the return of exiles and for the closure of all causes. But there has also been a case against any form of political dissent, against those who defend the right to housing, the territories, public health, education, and we will not stop until we put the repression and freedom of absolution, without exception, of all reprisals. We want to open with amnesty a new playing field, where the different political projects can confront us in equal conditions without repression. Amnesty brings in the color the right to self-determination. But we also warn: even though we do not get amnesty, even though repression persists, our struggle does not stop. We're coming from the moon and we're going too far still. Our day will come, and we are convinced that it will win despite its repression. And, despite that, for amnesty we will always be on the side of the 2,800 people being retaliated. It's over, President. With Marcel, with the eleven accused leidatans, with Adrian Sas, who will go to prison on charges of unjust accusations of the Generality, with Francisco Garrobo and in Moses, with the enterprises and exiles, with all the people retaliated, and today, more than ever, with Dani Gallardo, who accuse him of going back to prison to be in solidarity. There's nothing more vengeful...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.37.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.38.0	...and ignominious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.39.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Civit has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.40.0	Good morning to everyone, thank you very much. I'm hooking up with what Congresswoman Sánchez said. First of all, Marcel absolved. Today, in the morning, with other members of our parliamentary group, with a very large number of people, especially from La Forja, who are members, and especially from Badalona, we accompanied them before the Barcelona audience. And, logically, also a record for Dani Gallardo, as the deputy said, so to show his solidarity is accused of more than four years of arrest thanks to the law dying, the law biting, because it comes more fucked up in the Spanish State being corrupt than not manifesting yourself for your rights or third-party rights, and that's a shame. And I'm also taking advantage of... this week there was this sentence on Dani Gallardo's sentence, but, for example, this week has made eighty-eight years a person you don't have to know, which is said Montserrat Rull and France. Eighty-eight years ago a person who was born into an anarchist, independentist family, and who was born, precisely, said Freedom, but curiously, out of year 39 went on to say Montserrat, and that, curiously, did not solve an amnesty. And also his consort, the Welcome Amadeu, is still buried in a communal pit in Orduña, where there was a Franco concentration camp. What such a beautiful amnesty, the one of the Transition. It solved so many things, so many, so many, so many. An amnesty that freed political prisoners, certainly, enclosed causes, but, unfortunately, what he left was, with total impunity, rapists, corrupts, botxins, torturers, people as maca and as nice as Billy the Child. After more than forty years of supposed democracy, Billy the Child died with impunity. He died with impunity, and his victims at the end of the day were right at his repair. For this reason, both today and today, it is as important and as essential to be able to exercise, be able to claim, be able to fight, be able to fight, precisely, to exercise fundamental rights such as amnesty and the right to self-determination. Because without this it will not be possible to solve the political challenge that we have here in Catalonia. Because there are other initiatives – and welcome the initiatives that other groups present – such as the reform of the Criminal Code, such as the repeal of death law, which would benefit all and every citizen of the Spanish State, or the promotion of indults, but that is not the answer. I resolve circumstantially some particular cases of certain people who are in prison at that time. I do not solve the political conflict in Catalonia, for a band, which needs to exercise the right to self-determination and solve politically the challenge we have raised, nor do I solve practically three-thousand cases, which I think we will soon overcome, for the few remaining for three-thousand; I believe that, at last, for an aesthetic gesture, the Spanish judiciary believes that it will want to make it nice, because it is a easier number to memorize, three-thousand, that does not 2,800 and fall. Clearly, with a pardon, of course we want people on the street, of course we can get people out on the street, but of course, they're already judicious people. And all the rest of the people who are in trial or who have not been tried, who are in exile, what do we do with these people? Clearly, we have to settle this. And, of course, pardon you implicitly and explicitly acknowledge that this person has had a proper judicial sentence and process. Ergo, they consider themselves criminals. I'm sure they're delinquent for you. But it seems to me that, for the feelings and just as the procedure and the crimes – for the alleged crimes – for which they were accused, we deny that they are recognized as criminals. So, we want people home, you know! But people at home liberated, precisely, for having been arrested and political prisoners, exiles and political exiles. That's what we want, and that's why we appreciate the proposals we make from Madrid, from the group of the commons. We appreciate, therefore, the willingness to give support to a few points and we also appreciate the presentation of papers, but clearly, as we think that this is the market in which everything is to be solved, we understand that then there would be one thing with a way that may be very tight, very narrow. We want to go to the broad street, to amnesty and to self-determination, because, if not, it will not be possible. And, logically, of course we want them home, and we respect all the initiatives that they can pull forward. But if we don't do this, we don't see it viable to get out. Because, as I said, if we don't do this, amnesty and self-determination, we don't politically resolve the situation in Catalonia with Spain and, logically, if we're politicians, all of us in this room, the political challenges are resolved with politics, not repression. Please, politics; politics and courage. This is the only one we ask. And be brave here and be brave in Madrid, all folds, because, if not, there will be no way. We have passed from a legislature that I entered in 2015, which was to be ethical. Unfortunately, this parliamentary term will end, as the Member said, through repression and will have been, unfortunately, a pathetic parliamentary term, in which we will not have found many of the different parties that we can match and find, we will not have taken all the steps that we would like to make in the national liberation, but above all, in the individual liberation of many people that we believe and that we now have in prison, exile or people who are patenting different processes. Therefore, we have moved from an ethics legislature to a pathetic one, and I hope that all the delegates, 135 Members and Members who entered the chamber on the very 14th of February, who are doing the ethics legislature, could speak of amnesty, certainly, and come to speak of amnesty, but above all, I come to speak of empathy. Empathize with the people who are dying looking for a better future in the Mediterranean or creating any desert or sea so that they can reach a better future, for themselves or for their own. Empathy with victims of sexual exploitation; empathy with victims of labour exploitation; empathy with victims of sexual exploitation, of whatever kind; empathy with victims of homophobia; empathy with victims of xenophobia; empathy with victims of transphobia; empathy with victims of masculinism; empathy with those who suffer from poverty, discrimination or marginalization; empathy also, naturally, with animals who are exploited in barns, killed in hunting or to escorts or tortured in parties, which is also a shame. But, above all, empathize with those who think differently. Empathize with those who think different, and that's what I'm going to you. Empathize with the victims of state machinery. That's what we ask, empathy, because empathy is the basis of human relationships. There's no empathy, there's no humanity, there's no empathy, there's no politics. And that's why we ask for amnesty: empathy, amnesty and politics. All right, all right, More and more revolutionary than that. If there's no empathy, there's no humanity. If there's no humanity, there's no politics. And you, who are here, in this chamber, and who surely many of you will be in your own legislature, ask for this, empathy, amnesty, because this will be solved politically. If we don't solve it politically, they'll tell me what we're doing here. What? I'll do the notebook and the paycheck, and maybe the panxette? No, no, We come to do politics, and that's what we come to do here and in any room that has come from the world, to Europe and, while we're in the Spanish State, the Congress and the Senate. Some points in common with you, and I hope that much more, especially for the social and environmental advancement of all and each of the citizens of the political framework in which we are at that time. And that's what we're doing: empathy, empathy, empathy. There's two minutes left and no time left. I'm in love with this cry for empathy, for humanity and for politics. My political phase was over. First of all, I want to thank Oriol Junqueras and Marta Rovira for trusting me in 2015 to come and participate in this project, in this case, first as Juntes for the Yes and then as the Republican Left. Thank you very much. The gift also thanks very much to the entire parliamentary team, to all of the Members of my group, but also thanks to all of you, despite the fact that we think different. Because of all of you and every one of you I am after things; some, certainly, things that I think should not be done. But, anyway, I think we've had a good relationship with each and every one of you. Even so, I now come to the extreme from Mr Fernández, who we practically share territories, I think we have always maintained a relationship and a correct treatment, despite the misfortunes, despite the disagreements, that more than geographics are ideological, but I am sure that this call went for all of you, despite the fact that we have shared more or less commissions, despite the fact that we have shared more or less spaces of debate, either in committee or here in the House. But also, logically, as I think what I think, and though I believe and promote empathy, a record for all the people we have imprisoned: the Carmel, the Dolors, the Oriol, the Quim, the three Jordis, the Josep, the Raül, but also those we have in exile, all these people we also estimate, the Txell, the Marta, the Anna, the Lluís, the Clara, the Toni, the Carles, the Adri, the Valtònyc. I, in conclusion, with this last minute: let this next parliamentary term be that of ethics. On each and every one of you – on each and every one of you. It's the only one we ask: ethics. Ethics, empathy, humanity and, above all, politics. And, please, in those who are in this band..., every time they are more, they have empathy, they have humanity and they do, please, a republic with everyone at home – with everyone at home – because we have the right to be a free country, but above all, we have the duty to be a better country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.41.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Josep Costa has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.42.0	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We arrive at the end of an exceptional legislature. Some of us have already warned that 155 had forcibly stolen democracy and autonomy from us, and that taking a government at any cost to try to raise 155 could condemn us to run mutilated institutions, without sovereignty and without democracy. During the first year of the legislature, which we seem to be closing today, we wanted to fight first to recover a minimum of sovereignty that you allow us to operate as a democratic and representative Parliament. We started to lose this fight when a majority of the supporters of taking decisions from the Spanish courts replaced the independence majority that emerged on 21 December. We will see with the investiture of President Puigdemont, with the suspension of the retaliated deputies or with the disqualification of President Torra. During the second year we were going to continue to lose this struggle in renouncing as Parliament to lead the civic, blunt and unitary response against the infamous feeling that sentenced political prisoners to a hundred years in prison. And finally, during this atypical 2020 year, marked for Covid, we have suffered precisely the consequences of not having sovereignty or democracy. The lack of competition, finance and policy space, coupled with the inability of our president, has prevented us from reacting with the agility required in the most urgent times of the pandemic. He gave the professorship of the Universitat de León Juan Antonio García Amado: "The coups d'état now do not give them military, but courts. From the start to the 2010 Statute until the verdict of October 14 against political prisoners, passing through the secrecy of this Parliament through the Constitutional Court, the disqualifications of presidents and the hundreds of proceedings in accordance with the general case against independence, is still the result of the judicial coup that has approached the State, and that, in fact, perhaps never stopped controlling it. Today it is possible to see more clearly than ever the dome of the judiciary and the whole state repression apparatus is the continuation of the franchise for other media. Nor do I know what could be expected of a forty-year-old judgment of the Faixist dictatorship that has continued to impart justice during the forty-year period of formal democracy. As a result, today we have 2,850 people retaliated for the Spanish State; businesses, exiles, brought to justice for their struggle to exercise the right of self-determination and to complete the process of independence. If today we have all these people who are victims of the repression and authoritarianism of the State, it is strictly because we have not completed the mandate of the U of October, which is to make Catalonia's independence. We all know that the most effective way to end repression is independence; independence is the answer to many questions, also to the question of repression. Some have no solution to our problems. Nor are those who speak only of amnesty, because this is not a future project for our country. We all know that the Spanish State will not give effect to any amnesty. And if you did, the debt wouldn't have ended the repression, because we're not willing to give up on the right. Amnesties are effective when there is a political change, a political change that makes the repressive response stand in the way. But here it is not perceived any political change. Neither the change of government nor the exchange of ministers seems to have changed anything. The coup d'état judicial has triumphed in Spain. We can agree that amnesty is, indeed, a starting point to ensure that no one spends a day more embarrassed by their ideas. Also, the political conflict caused by the denial of our right of self-determination will only be resolved when we complete our national liberation. Under the current repression conditions, no negotiations with the Spanish State are possible. The amnesty, if it were effective, which will not be effective, could be the mechanism for returning the political conflict to the realm of politics, if it should never have come out. But we know that it is impossible for the Congress of the Spanish Deputies to accept the amnesty of 2,850 retaliated persons, and less yet to give up punishing the 2,850 following that they would do so again. The repression has not yet known the distinction between PP, PSOE and Podemos. And without any change in the rules, we don't see the effectiveness of an amnesty. It is precisely with the Government of Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias that all the prison benefits of political prisoners have been revoked; that they have begun to judge mayors of the First of October, as the councillor who accompanies us here; that in clear violation of his parliamentary immunity is kept in prison Oriol Junqueras and is kept the extradition of President Puigdemont and the councillors Comín and Ponsati. With this government, President Torra has been disqualified for a banner in defense of reprisals, most of the members of the Bureau of this Parliament have been disenfranchised in the past parliamentary term, including the three people who preceded me in the first vice president's office. And also, let's not forget, this government is pressing a lawsuit against most of the Bureau members in this legislature. Despite all this, we independents now find ourselves asking for an amnesty that we know will not be approved. I say we ask it, in a symbolic vote, because at the moment we don't have what it would be like to apply it, which is sovereignty. We are perfectly aware that we will not be given amnesty by the very people who keep the repression against the independence movement day after day. As Zola says to the defendant! : "Who could expect a war council to defy what a war council had done before? Together for Catalonia, he subscribes to this resolution and participates in the campaign to claim amnesty, but he does not do so because we believe that it will come to fruition. The PSOE did not expect the motion for a resolution to be adopted to reject it and to deny it. Our logic, if you want, is to open the left, to intelligent confrontation, so that every time the institutions of the State justify repression or let them see that it does not go with them, they stretch a little more of the European democratic standards. Therefore, every time it is demonstrated that nothing changes or changes, it will help us to strengthen the just cause that legitimizes Catalonia's independence. Therefore, we will not resign ourselves to asking only for an amnesty. And, above all, we would be vigilant to avoid any rush to turn an amnesty proposal into an end-and-end law. We know that the only way that the State could, hypothetically, renounce the chastisement and revenge against all independence would be for independence to renounce its political project, and that, obviously, will not happen. They won't find us. And anyway, if you ever get through, they'll find us there to fight it. They owe us to the millions of citizens who have mobilized to defend self-determination and independence. The only end we've had is the Catalan Republic, and if we don't have it, it's that we haven't come to the end yet. And that is also very clear: we will not endorse an amnesty law, as symbolic as it may be, which provides for the forgiveness of police officers who have committed violence against the voters of the U of October; it is a question of principles and justice. An effective amnesty law would have to repair the damages that have suffered so much and so many people retaliated and put measures on the table to punish those responsible. Demanding amnesty, aside from considerations of its viability, is an act of justice for dignity not only of all retaliated persons, but also for the dignity of Catalan society. Judicialization and criminalization have prevented the normal functioning of institutions, with prisoners and political pressures there has been no political normality possible. It is not possible to negotiate with the Spanish State until it ceases its repression against thousands of people who have organized the U of October or against people who have also mobilized in protest over the feeling of more than a hundred years of imprisonment of the political and social representatives of this country. We call on all Catalan society to continue to mobilize to complete the process of independence. If there is no way of dialogue for amnesty, there is, at least, an independent way to free prisoners, to return from exiles and to put aside the open causes. To make what now seems unviable viable, the Catalan Republic is the key that opens all doors. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a great honor to represent the people of Catalonia in this Parliament. I am sad that I could not avoid the humiliations that he suffered at this stage presided over by the submissive, but I believe in Catalonia that he wants to win and that he never makes: to put up with these people so ufana and so superb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word now Mr Lucas Ferro. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.44.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Counselors, advisors... thank you very much, President. Today I think we all have the feeling that we are tanking a lost legislature in many things: in social equality, in public services, in economic transition, but also, and I think we have to say, a lost legislature to find solutions to the political conflict we are living in Catalonia. A more dedicated legislature to see how the two governing parties do the travesty than to see how we get out of this political conflict and how and with what proposals we get out. And I think we should also conjure up that it was the last legislature in which the government's small arms are more prominent than the problems that Catalonia has and that Catalan institutions have. And the first thing I wanted to say was that today we are discussing a motion for a resolution three years after it was not presented in this House with an amnesty proposal, and we are discussing a proposal without legal effects or binding capacity. And I think we should also conjure ourselves up to this Parliament being a legislative space and not merely a pre-election propaganda space. And I think that we also need to say more: enough to make only propaganda from the Parliament. Parliament is a space for debate on ideas, but it is also a space for building collective proposals. And in this legislature there were no collective proposals, nor in relation to the conflict that Catalonia saw. And I don't think it's a waste of time and last time we see and want to replace with propaganda what has been a let go of the functions of this Parliament and this Government. We have presented a message to reinforce two issues that we consider essential: the first is that the pandemic has obviously led to political priorities for all governments and has left, surely in the second place, many central challenges that we have as the country, also the dialect. But I think we also have to say today that the new normality is also the dialog, it's also the possibility to make political that it's a political conflict, and that the new normality must also involve the recovery of the dialog table and the ability, among all, to make it effective to find agreements and to find solutions to the political conflict that we live in. And, therefore, the first thought, we wanted to reinforce this idea. And we also want to reinforce it against the idea that this proposal, for example, the amnesty proposal, is a proposal that is not unilateral. There is no unilateral amnesty, amnesty forms part of the dialogue, mutual recognition and the courage to arrive at agreements from the dialogue and from this recognition. And, therefore, we want to say that the central space to build these agreements are the democratic institutions and is the table of the dialog. And, therefore, we need brave governments, also a good government and a government capable of working the necessary alliances to find democratic solutions to the conflict. We have always said that we must work on political alliances. And we told the Socialist Party company and we told the compañeros and the compañeros independentistas: in the Congress there was neither a minority of resistance nor a majority of blockade; there was a majority of leadership, to have the capacity of the progressive and plurinational majority of Spain to lead a political solution to the conflict and to be able to build a new country project. And this requires compromises in moving forward together and also compromises in finding solutions and political lives to a conflict that is political. The dialog table was no end of any party or government. The dialog table was a conquest of what we have been claiming for years that a democratic conflict and a political conflict needed dialog space to find political agreements. And from this position we continue to demand and require that, when we overcome this difficult situation of health emergency, we reopen the table of the dialog and the full range of political proposals and agreements. And we have made our proposals. We also share the need to find political solutions to all those reprisals from this political cycle. And, therefore, we also support the amnesty proposal. But we abstain today in your proposal simply because we do not share that anti-repressive proposals compete with each other. We need to be able to get them to work together and agree. We open all the paths that allow us to move forward. If the sentence was harmful to the exercise of phonenal rights, the modification of the crime of sedition, the reform of the Criminal Code is necessary and is democratic requirement. I therefore cannot give up on behalf of any other proposal. And if, moreover, it has retroactive effects against those who have already suffered a sentence by siege or against those who are awaiting trial and can suffer it in a future, better than better, but we cannot give up reforming the Criminal Code to shield the full exercise of civil and political rights in our country. And that is why we cannot accept a transaction that eliminates the reform of the Criminal Code in the name of an amnesty proposal. They are not proposals that compete, nor do they compete with the indult. If the indult allows us today to intervene and correct an injustice such as is that there are people engaged, let us also use it and, above all, let us not give up on behalf of any other proposal, on which there is neither legislative initiative nor the necessary alliances have been built. And I want to recognize and aggravate today from here the pocket of many entities that are engaged in finding political solutions from the dialog: that of the three Catalonian expressors, who have also demanded the indult, and today especially the indefatigable pocket of our company Jaume Asens, to which some surely today nomenarian caperrut, or head, but who continue to build bridges there where many would only want to see closed doors. Today, from here, I want to thank him there. We were going to say in general elections where our company Jaume Asens was top of the list that, if they wanted solutions, votes without solutions. And today we give you all the same: with a lot of work to do and with all the alliances to build, we need to know how to build solutions. We will always be on the side of dialogue and solutions, because we will always do politics and never give up doing politics, nor conflict. In all the proposals that they want to bet to destabilise the conflict, also with amnesty, there are in the canton of dialogue and the need to build democratic solutions. And so much so that the own Government of Catalonia is more focused on building solutions, building political alliances and building majorities that are necessary than on playing the guitar between them and placing top-class conflicts on a level-by-level basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.45.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today several Members of Parliament who have preceded me in the use of the word have spoken here of a value, of a concept that I think we all value, that is the concept of 'empathy, the concept, in short, of sympathy towards others, above all those who do not think exactly the same or who disagree or who are in the antipodes of your way of conceiving the world. Well, I want to talk to you about another value that I think is essential for society, which is concord and respect for diversity. From the point of view of empathy, I have to tell you... And I take advantage of this later intervention in this legislature to make a speech, surely, with some leniency, let's say, of parliamentarianism more than square. Frankly, I have real wills to live together with my own independent fellow citizens. I have a genuine desire to have cordial relations, such as I already have, with many independent MPs and with many people, with many fellow citizens who are independent. I want to have a cordial relationship with Bernat, with whom I have a cordial relationship, with Esther, with Meritxell, with the Year, of course, with my party members, and also with those of the Socialist Party, with Esther, with Ferran and with the companies Alejandro of the PP and with the companies of the CUP, with whom I also want to have a cordial relationship. Therefore, I believe that it is fundamental and essential that no one here fall into the pretension of moral superiority to assesy anyone as a morally worse person than you for your ideas. I recognize them, in a confession that certainly is a little attached to the parliamentary sphere, but that I do so with the convenience of knowing that we are, among comets, "in the family and we will be seen many people, surely, but I think it is important to say it..., to make manifest, to fill in the good relationship that exists between non-independent Catalan citizens and independent Catalan citizens, the willingness of agreement that exists between a good part of Catalonia's citizenship, and this is incompatible with the claim that someone – for example, my companion Lorraine Roldán – is less or less a bad person, as a Republican Esquerra's companion said yesterday, in order to have different possibilities, quite simply. I have discussed openly with people in the constitutionalist sphere, with people, not with the party, but in my own country, who pretended to point to a supposed moral superiority of constitutionalism, they pretended to say that independenceists are worse people for being independenceists. It seems to me an authentic moral aberration to think from constitutionalism that an independentist is a worse person or that he has no empathy or that he has abject or negligible human qualities, and that we are superior to having different visions of reality. And that is why they also demand this exercise of humility to the representatives of the separatist parties that today have made a speech – not all of them, but some of them – in the line of saying that our deputies, we are people, therefore, morally reprehensible for not having, according to them, empathy with the people condemned for the crimes committed during the late 17th year. Look, I can be empathetic with a lot of you and people who are in prison for a lot of different reasons. It's true that there's a question I want to point them at. From the point of view of empathy– and I am talking about a concrete case, I am not talking about its natural condition as human beings or as citizens– there is an image that seemed to me to be really worrying, an image that seemed to me to be really sad– I saw it at that time and I thought about something in this line... But yesterday a person very representative of the world of Catalan culture, a person dedicated to rock, an important person– I can say the name, I think that the name – which was Sabino Mendez, made a reflection that seemed to me to be very interesting, that is that on the days 6, 7 of September, in the end of the bad days, for us, if not, on the days 6, 7 of September, the bench of the constitutional parties– was at this very moment, at this very moment, but at this point in the day, it was still a political party. What did the members of the separatist parties do? I believe that... some of the insiders certainly did, but externally they did not show any signs of retribution or of, let's say, shock, incompatibility with what they were doing and the march of the representatives of more than half the city of Catalonia. And, far from showing the slightest pendiment or least pain or least pain for the fact that the constitutionalist bench abandoned the hemicicle, what they did was rise up and sing the anthem of the Segadors, expel more than half the Catalans of this anthem and, ultimately, of this Parliament, which represents the conjunction of the city of Catalonia. The symbols of Catalonia are from all Catalans, we continue or do not follow independence, we have the vision we have about Catalonia and the relations of Catalonia with the rest of Spain. Therefore, yes, I take your demand, your proposal of empathy. But if we're to be empathetic, we all have to be empathetic. If not, obviously, the problems that there is in Catalonia, that I believe is not a problem between Catalonia and Spain, neither very small, nor neither between Catalonia and the Spanish State... In any case, there are various problems – not just one, several – between Catalans, between citizens of Catalonia, and there will also be between Catalans and the rest of the Spanish or between the conjunct of Spanish, for many different reasons. But, in any case, I believe that the problem of language, the Catalan question, to say the least in terms of the Second Republic, is, fundamentally, a problem between Catalans. And I also say to them – and I want to do it with all respect and with all the good disposition – that, many times – and I say it with this calmness because I have made it clear that I have a will to generate or to provoke reflection on the bench of the independent parties – the citizens of Catalonia who are not independent have the feeling that they are silenced or completely forgotten by the policies of the separatist parties or by speeches like these, not only us, from the bench of the constitutional parties, but also the same citizens to whom we represent have this sense, therefore, that Catalonia, the official Catalonia forgets about the feeling, the way to hear Catalonia from these citizens who feel as Catalan as Spanish– and so much in Spanish. I think that's something we need to keep up with. I am very sorry that in Catalonia, the atmosphere in Catalonia has gone down to extremes that were untenable to me a few years ago and that I hope that we will continue to cover everything, not just ourselves, obviously, because we will not solve the problems of Catalonia only the constitutionalists, but also the independence parties, but I hope that among all of us we will continue to cover the problems of creating an environment, a climate much less hostile, a climate much more concordant, a climate of lofty sights to overcome the difficulties that we have between all the folds. And we have them especially in times of pandemic, with an economic, social, moral, sentimental situation of Catalans that we could really describe as dramatic. And I think it's the responsibility of everyone to have a speech that defuses the dramatic tension of political life, that many times, all the time, to generate concord, to generate good atmosphere, to generate Germanor among the citizens of Catalonia, what it does is to divide us. And I think it is imperative that we all remain aware that we all have responsibility for this task of rebuilding Catalonia and trying, as far as possible, to make this crisis as small as possible. I insist on saying before: I come to speak of empathy, also, yes, and concord among Catalans, of respect between the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia and of political pluralism. Catalonia is an open society, a diverse society, a breathing society, a vibrant society, with an economy, with a poverty that is not insignificant, with entrepreneurs, with workers, with autonomists who do a spectacular job, and a lot of these people are bravely painted. And I think it's imperative that you give the Parliament of Catalonia a focus on what really matters to the citizen of Catalonia, and I say it with all respect. I sincerely believe that in the present circumstances the citizens of Catalonia are not concerned either about the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain or about identity claims. And here I try not to be pejorative in political terms, nor to say obsessions, nor to say delusions, which we have said on other occasions. We are all responsible for creating a climate and a much more constructed public debate and much more exemplary for the citizenry. But, I insist, I believe that the claim to continue with a debate that the only thing that it does is to create a division between Catalonia's citizens is that we should not be able to assume and undertake and manage a health, economic and social crisis as we are living with the guarantees and conditions that we need. I am very sorry that these years the crisis has grown in Catalonia and I very sincerely hope that in the next parliamentary term among all of us we are still able to make a real Catalonia for everyone and to have a much more peaceful public debate. Thank you all for everything. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.48.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors, deputies and deputies, we have heard in previous interventions some reflections that invite us to make others, right? And I had thought I'd start with the question, but I'd take a close look at some of the things that have been heard. Those who here represent the city of Catalonia – as has always happened, on the other hand, when there have been free and fair elections – represent a wide variety of positions in various issues: social, economic, institutional, world view, values, etc. And it is not that we are condemned and condemned to hear each other, but it is that we are criticized and believed to dialogue and to prove to establish in a parliamentary system those consensuses that are, at least, necessary because our society can function. And, obviously, as far as the Deputy Citizen is concerned, the political problems we have – and we have a good glue, with this also coincided with Mr Martín Blanco, not just one, but a good glue – must find political solutions. And we agree on that. We know that if we've used a mantra in this legislature and in the past, it's this one that says dialogue, negotiation and pact, huh? Some understand the dialog as a renunciation. We don't agree. Others understand that there is only a dialog if the maximum positions are accepted from the outset. We don't agree with that either. And, therefore, we are convinced and convinced that the political solution that we find to the situation in which we have settled the last two years must be a political solution that can count on a vast majority around it. It is to say, that it can be able to generate broad consensus around it, between the Catalan citizenry, and also, we understand, that it is consumable for a large majority of the conjunct of the Spanish citizenry. But we also believe that it would not be considered, respect the initiative raised by us, avoid the issue and not go into what they raise. And we have to tell them that we do not share their approach, for reasons that can be formal and procedural, for one band, and for material reasons or for foundations, for the other. We will not focus on formal or procedural matters, even if they have their relevance, but we do want to point them out because we believe they have some implicit political consideration. You bring us an initiative in the form of a motion for a resolution as provided for in Rule 167 of the Rules of Procedure. And, in accordance with this article, these motions for resolutions must be addressed either to the Government of the Government of Catalonia or to the conjunction of Catalan citizenship. It is not the case on one side of the material content of the proposal that they bring us. The second and third sides refer to another legislative chamber. Get the Congress to adopt a law and articulate the contents of this law, the dispositions of this law. From our point of view, therefore, more substantial than today's debate should not have been the subject of a motion for a resolution, but of the legislative initiative which we have incorporated in Article 176 of the Rules, which, in conformity with the Statute and the Constitution, provides for the possibility of autonomous legislative initiative in matters of State competence and allows them to be raised to the consideration of the General Courts. You have decided not to do so, basically – it is our interpretation – because then you could not have taken this initiative at the end of the legislature. And, in addition, it should be borne in mind that with the form that you have chosen this initiative, as well as approved today with the majority that you see, the next day with the dissolution of the chamber will fall. This brings us to tangential considerations on the opportunity criteria of the initiative from its perspective. Or, in other words, to ask us why they are carrying it now and then and not before and how we think it would fit, and whether this has anything to do with the call for elections on February 14th or not. I have to say that in the light of the interventions of the three proposing groups and of the more or less subtle messages, according to the case, which were aimed at one another of the promoters of the initiative, perhaps it does have something to see with the elections of the 14th of February, which is not left, nor much less, gravity or seriousness to the proposal that you are proposing. Therefore, let us go to the questions of foundations that make us differ from their settlement, from the demand they make with this motion for a resolution. One of the speakers, representing one of the promoters groups, spoke of the enlargement of European democratic standards. Effectively. Late in 2017, it was intended in this chamber to repeal the Constitution and the Statute calling on other ideals, but in an absolutely illegitimate and, in a doubtful sense, contrary to the democratic principle, which, as you know, is not limited only to the rule of majority decision-making, but also to the principle of respect for the procedure and guarantees that the procedure implies or counts and respect for minority rights. Or, in other words, the claim that a majority of Parliamentarians, rather than, in this case, acting in a lawful and legitimate way always do what they do, and steps above the positive standards that pass is absolutely contrary to the most basic foundations of a democratic and right-wing state. To support the contrary is to align with Carl Schmitt's thesis and his decision, which they have nothing to do with a democratic state of law. There was, therefore – and I think the best we can do is to say it as I think some of Catalonia's citizens think it is – hard facts and that, although we tried not to produce it, they inevitably lead to some kind of penal toilet. The various expressions of the right of grace can only be felt in a social and democratic state of right, if they serve the principle of material justice. And, from our point of view, what you promote with this initiative in reality would be contrary to this principle of material justice. There are basically two institutions that find their foundation in the right of grace: indulgence and amnesty. In terms of many gliders, it may be said that amnesty is a greater benefit than that of indult, and the 1978 Constitution does not, in fact, allow for general pardons. There are areas of doctrine that consider that modern states of law, and especially parliamentary systems like ours, should show an opposition by principle to any manifestation of the right of grace, whether in the form of indult or amnesty. Amnesty is generally considered, in the doctrine, a massive manifestation of the right of grace, based on a criterion of opportunity, and, therefore, eminently political, established by law, which involves the extinction of criminal responsibility and other sanctions, the annulment of criminal proceedings and the prohibition of us being called upon for certain criminal types, which, unlike what occurs with certain penal provisions favourable to the defendant who has been adopted at a later date, do not tend to derogate from or modify the criminal types, except that, in the case of amnesty, the extinct effects are only at certain circumstances or motivations for the commission of the offence or on certain persons. Thus characterized, it felt like the truly exceptional formula in contexts of transit from an authoritarian regime to a democratic one who requires to make a clean table respect certain conduits that were previously illegitimately considered illegal and not now or in the context of the end of a particularly violent stage. And, therefore, it is not so necessaryly founded on a need to ease the material justice as to favor the restoration of the social pau. We are not moving from an authoritarian rule to a democratic one, much so that some of you tend to characterize Spain as a dictatorship. And we are still – by fate – moving from a democratic regime to a communist social dictatorship, with some reactionary defence sector at a later stage. Nor do we find ourselves at the end of a particularly violent era, fortunately. In Spain's legal tradition and in its doctrine, "indulgence and amnesty, despite sharing the agreement, have been regarded as different institutions. In summary, and for the big broc, the indult implies the extinction of the sentence, while the amnesty implies the extinction of the criminal action. Or with the aphorism attributed to liberal jurist Alejandro Groizard, the indult is forgiveness, while amnesty is oblivion. Half the Catalans who lived with fear and disassociation of the late 2017 facts we believe that you can legitimately ask for forgiveness. They think you're like that. I don't know how far this has been done, publicly, but we think that this would be perfectly legitimate and reasonable for us to be taken on by the part of the citizenry that felt that way, and that it felt ignored by the last governments, and that, moreover, they don't understand that you insist on going back to it. We can, as I said to the principle, all pleas call us to dialogue, reconciliation and the search for political solutions and broad consensus. But what they can't ask for this half of Catalan citizenship is oblivion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word now the deputy Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.50.0	Thank you, President. One of the characteristics of the separatist process has been the imposition of language and terminology which could be described as populist magic realism. This populist magic realism leads them to say that Catalonia is a colony with the right to self-determination or to say that Spain is a dictatorship that has political prisoners and repression – by the way, curious way to be empathetic to refer to Spain as such, but good. In any case, reality is the least. It is clear that if there were repression and political prisoners in Spain we would have been fulminantly expelled from the European Union. But that minor detail has never discouraged them, because the important thing is that magic flows, right? And that's how you've been eight years. Now it is the question of amnesty, and they apply exactly the same populism as with the subject of repression or that of prisoners. Populism is extraordinarily comfortable because it does not require thinking or reasoning; it is like populism of those who say that this would be settled by illegalizing everyone without a court order. Thinking and reasoning is more uncomfortable, we must strive, put our elbows, and in the short term, in fact, it does not usually generate political revenues. I've never cared. I'm going to try to reason, and I know that doing what with you is like doing it with a wall, but I don't address you and those people as much as anyone who is listening to us right now who wants to reason, even if I don't share everything I'm going to say below. The so-called "right of grace" has two modalities: pardon and amnesty. The etymology already points to the difference between the two. «Amnesia comes from the Greek root« amnesia; indeed, it completely extinguishes the penalty. Amnesty does not fit in our legal system, and as the great jurist Enrique Gimbernat points out, it can be considered unconstitutional to the extent that our Constitution is not only not explicitly named, but explicitly forbids general pardons, so that it logically discards even more general measures than these. Amnesties, when they do come – which is not the case – are fundamentally oriented in two ways. First, decriminalize behaviors that until then were crimes. For that to happen, a new scale of values is required, which involves the transition from dictatorship to democracy. For example, in Spain adultery and amancement – which is what was then called the de facto couples, who run their noses – cease to be crimes, with that step. This path is ruled out for this situation, because misappropriation, for example, will not cease to be a crime; it can change, but it does not disappear, it remains a crime – very serious, by the way. The second way of amnesty is that which refers to crimes that remain classified, but never makes a clean picture of the whole past, but of those that were committed in defense of the principles and values of the new democratic political system. Hence, the vast majority of amnesties in the Spanish transition were for the crime of illegal association – it was a political crime – but the embezzlement and sedition are not political ideologies. I will repeat this because it is surely what they have never just caught: the embezzlement and sedition are not political ideologies. In short, accepting the approval of the amnesty would mean accepting that until that approval Spain has been a dictatorship, and no one swallows it. All the democracies of the world in the West recognize Spain as an equal, with its defects, its virtues, but as an equal. I was fully aware, and I said earlier, that this which I have just explained to you gives you completely the same. You may keep saying that you are Napoleon Bonaparte or Elvis Presley, and I assume that there is a part of Catalan society that is willing to continue believing that you are Napoleon Bonaparte and Elvis Presley, but although Elvis may still be alive, it is clear that it is none of you. No one in the international community is going to accept that in Spain there are political prisoners or repression or that we are a dictatorship, and therefore, to the extent that Spain is not a dictatorship, there is no amnesty whatsoever. And so far my argument comes, with the sincere desire not to have melted your brains with it; I also sincerely wish you a Merry Christmas and a prosperous new year to all of you. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To pronounce on the exams, the honourable Member, Natalia Sánchez, has a final turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.52.0	On the reports, which we are grateful that the Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos has presented. First of all, on the dialog, of course, it is essential to have a dialog and recognition to the right of self-determination. Secondly, we have not been able to reach an agreement, although we have tried, and we do not forget to continue working to reach all possible agreements in anti-repressive logic, and also in the construction of the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. The group of commons proposed to us, at the same level, the way of the pardons of the reform of the Criminal Code and amnesty. It's not the same, it's not on the same level, it's not three equal lives. First of all, all respect for the individual and personal decisions of the people who want to adhere to it they want to choose as an anti-repressive way by the way of indult. All of it respects him. We have nothing to say in this sense. All respect also to anyone who wants to seek an anti-repressive way of modifying the Criminal Code and the crime of sedizione, but it's a small, individual solution, it's a solution because prisoners come out and how much they can return to exiles. Three thousand people retaliated. We want a big solution. There are many people who are harmed by the repression of the Spanish State, by the general cause against independence. And at the end of the day and in the end, amnesty is not a point and an end, it's the iniquitous, it's the necessary condition to do what we want to do in freedom. Mr. Pedret, we want to do politics in freedom, we want Anna Gabriel to be able to military in the streets to defend the rights of the workers, we want Oriol Junqueras to be seated in this chamber, we want Mr. Puigdemont to be able to do politics in freedom, we want thousands of people retaliated for the Spanish State to be able to exercise the right to political dissent [[applause]] We want to be free and political in freedom. I'm done. There's been a lot of talk about empathy, and I'm teaching them the U of October button. A yes and a no. Let's see ourselves in the polls, build and start a new political cycle that allows us to accumulate the forces necessary to do..., and I quote C. Tangana music, a pelada – and I finish, president – that made the day it was known the feelings of the process; said: "This all started because they wanted to vote and you didn't leave them. They want to vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.53.0	Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.54.0	...and we will do it again, because we will do independence politics in freedom, despite you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the violation of children's rights in the Catalan education system]] [[302-00275/12]] After the debate on this motion for a resolution, let us turn to the next point, on the 27th, concretely, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the violation of children's rights in the Catalan education system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Sonia Sierra has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.56.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor no, because there were five to talk about the amnesty of a few, but there is not one to talk about the violation of the rights of all students in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] The language regime we have in Catalonia, in addition to being illegal, as justice told us yesterday, is so bad that its defenders always have to resort to lies. You know the song We're gonna tell lies, will you? Well, that's what we're going to meet when you come out to this rostrum, and as I already know, I'm going to anticipate you. Let's tell lies, it'll work. In Catalonia there is a system of linguistic immersion, when in reality what there is is an illegal system of imposing monolingualism. Let's tell lies, it'll work. In Catalonia there is no problem with languages, although, in reality, families have to go to the courts to get a Spanish course. Let's sing lies, it'll work. The Catalan school is an internationally recognized model of success, although it is actually being investigated by the European Union on grounds of discrimination. Let's tell lies, it'll work. In Catalonia it is not segregated by languages, although, in fact, if you have money you can study in more than one language, and if you do not have money, you have to conform to a single language, which is Catalan. Let's tell lies, it'll work. In Catalonia we have the only model that guarantees social cohesion, although it does not actually apply anywhere else in the world. And we're gonna tell lies, it will. Catalan students have a higher level of Spanish than the rest of Spain, although in reality there is no proof of approval. These are the lies they're gonna tell us when they get out here. And look, I can prove each of my statements with documents, which I also make available to you. I always do, and they never ask me. Unlike you. You can't provide any documents that show that two hours a week you get the same as 20, because they don't exist. You cannot provide any international support documents, because they do not exist. You cannot provide any proof that the level of Catalan pupils is higher than that of the rest of Spain because they do not exist. They often resort to selectivity, but it is only necessary to compare Catalonia's models with those of the rest of Spain to see that they are not even comparable. By the way, according to you Catalan students with two_hours a week have a better level of Spanish than Burgos, but it turns out that in the TIMSS tests in mathematics we get thirty_y_four points and in science, thirty_y_one. How are we going to get better with two_hours a week in Spanish if in mathematics and science, which do the same hours, we get more than thirty points? And, well, I suppose they will also say that this is the model that the working families in Santa Coloma asked for in the 1980s: lying, this is not the model of the 1980s; this is a model of the 1990s, but it is that besides lying, as everything they say, claiming an educational model thirty or forty years ago – it doesn't matter – is anachronistic. Progressive people want 21st century educational models, not obsolete and obsolete models of the 20th century. And, look, if you are so sure that this is the model that the working families of Santa Coloma want, I invite you to go one day together, with my colleague Dimas, to Santa Coloma and ask the families there what model you want: if you study in Spanish, Catalan and English, as Citizens propose, or only in Catalan, as you impose on them. Do you agree to accept what the families of Santa Coloma now want? Not the '80s, the ones now. And, well, surely when you come out here you will accompany your lies with insults and disqualifications, because, unfortunately, I have become accustomed to every time I come out to this rostrum insulting me. They insult me for asking for something so progressive that students can study in more than one language. They insult me for asking for something as fair as that all Catalan students have the same rights as those who go to private schools. But this is what happens when there are no arguments, no didactics, no pedagogics, which resort to lies and insults. In addition to insulting us, we are accused of being scolded, because for you, ‘slashing is defending what is being defended by UNESCO, the UN, UNICEF and the European Union, which just this week the European Parliament voted in favour of an amendment by Citizens to the Minority Pack, which calls for respect for the rights of all speakers in regions with more than one co-official language. For you, ‘crying is defending legality, because from Citizens we have been saying for a long time that this system of linguistic imposition is illegal, and justice has given us reason once again. And it has not been the evil Constitutional Court, no, no, it has been the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, you have been Catalan judges, as Catalan as you and as I have been. And, look, you can continue to defend the privileges of a few, because we will continue to defend the rights of all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.58.0	Well, good morning, deputies and deputies. Darrer Ple from the legislature, the campaign goes down and Ciutadans recovers one of his star themes, as is the language. And since the PSC we really don't have to. In fact, many times these debates have made us review convictions, re-contrast them, but what we cannot accept, and is very good, because you have focused a lot on talking about lies, is that it is discussed on the basis of lies. And the first point of her young man has already said a lie: it is legitimate for you to disagree with the new education law, the LOMLOE, to reject certain ideas that have been proposed, but what we cannot accept is that they lie; it is to say, to speak, as is the case, of a Language Platform issue, which in absolute has maintained no type of negotiation with this entity; to say that they stop the new law is allowed to control the language at the time of the student's father or in other non-lective activities. Stop lying and manipulating the citizenry. They carry weeks of campaigning on the side of Vox, the PP and, curiously, on the side of Junts for Catalonia, against the new law, because when it comes to defending interests and privileges of some employers friends, so, obviously, Mrs. Ayuso knows that she is the first to do it and join. But they have repeated weeks of lying: that if the LOMLOE wants to end the concertation, that if it wants to end the special education centres, that if it wants to end the castle; but it does not embarrass them to cast off the concern and concern of many families, when they know of the fact that this law is really the only one that wants to advance in the modernization of the education system with guarantees of equity, of inclusiveness, and when they know that in any case it will not end with the castle, nor with the concertation, nor with the special education centres? Look, we've seen you guys at a time when you've been putting up a lot of tight links where a few months ago you've been working on breaking deep ties from public space. We have seen them serve children and children among the educational centres with political ends, after talking about the neutrality of the institutions; and, indeed, we understand that their voters, therefore, no longer know how to follow them. But in any case, in order to continue with the movement, you do not speak with propriety, you speak of "mother tongues when in reality you want to speak of "official languages, because of mother tongues in Catalonia there are many: there is the Amazic, there is the Chinese, there is the Urdu, there is more than three hundred. You refer explicitly to the castle, the català and the aranès, and this is why they proposed a theme in the sense of guaranteeing the right of the student to education in the castle, in the català, the orange occidentity to the Aran, and especially for the student with special educational needs, because, indeed, if it is about children who have some disorders linked to language, the learning in mother tongue in these cases can help them, but they have not accepted it. And another point of the motion: insist on a historical claim of your party; here we must re-express our discrepancy, because what seems to us to be uplifting is – and it should be guaranteed – equal opportunities, and therefore ensure that children and children finish basic education, all the students, regardless of the title of their educational center, are insolent, so a full and equivalent domain of castle, català, aranès, and also a functional use of English, because we already know that this is now an exclusive competition of those families that can be paid, extracurricular or out of the foreigner. And all this, therefore, applying instruments of verification, control, which the same educational system has, promote more assessments, if appropriate, and adopt the necessary measures to compensate for the deficiencies that exist in any of these languages; the flexibility and compensation that for the first time introduces LOMLOE. But this, therefore, does not please them either, you want to impose on the masters as you have to do their work, you want to decide on didactics, on pedagogy, when what they correspond to the policies is to mark the objectives; in our case, we give a full domain of official languages and a functional use of English or a third language. And, finally, you're planning to discriminate and veto an entity that doesn't like you; legitimately, but veto the possibility of a grant. What we are saying here is that it is appropriate to avoid ill practices within educational centres, and therefore what is appropriate is to urge the Government to develop, approve protocols of action, such as other autonomous communities, where entities, research groups, universities, associations, among educational centres, and which affect minors, investigations, and, therefore, which takes into account the need to authorize or not such investigations, to obtain consent or to inform both educational centres and cloisters as families, which does not always happen to Catalonia. So I was going to say that I would like to recover, but I am not saying this; I would like to see that politics must be useful, that the discrepancy is legitimate, but that the sterile confrontation and the rift do not contribute to the cohesion and concord that the majority of us want, and that they cease to feel complicated by PP, by Vox, that they do not lie, or that they go on for a bunch of votes, because we understand that they are not worth it. And with everything, therefore, we will vote against the motion. We will only vote in favour of points 2 and 6 and abstain on point 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.59.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.60.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I do not know if it is electoral opportunism, that of Ciutadans, when presenting this motion here, but it is timely in the sense that it does relatively few weeks, so that it was approved by the LOMLOE, the law Celaá, and it was also known that it suppressed from the text of the law the fact that the castle, official language throughout the State, also to Catalonia, disappeared in the text of the law as the language to convey, right? We have presented two essays to the young man, the two guided in the same direction, to show the rebroadcast to the new Law of Education, for what it means. And for us it means reducing the culture of effort, which we believe is essential; it also limits the plurality of educational centres, and, therefore, it also limits the freedom that families have at the time of choosing educational centres. And also, even if it's not so obvious, it means the buiding of special education centers. It is clear that the inclusion of pupils with special needs in ordinary school is essential, but there are certainly cases where, for the development of the same children, special education centres are to be maintained. Therefore, the freedom of families is also violated in this sense at the time of choosing the best education for their child. And the second point that we have presented is to express that, more than they want to delete references, in the laws, to the castle's vehicularity, the legal mark continues to feel the same as it is. And the common sense, which gives me the impression that there's no such thing, is there? ... but it is established that there are two linguistic models in the communities where two languages come together, that are that of segregation, that we do not share, and that of linguistic conjunction, that I believe is what we share most groups in this chamber. And so we remember that – and they also make many sensations, for example that of yesterday, of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia – thinking of the education of our children, both Catalan and castella should be vehicular, and in the measure of possible also a third foreign language. And all this, basically, because the teaching and education of the children of the elites, such as the Minister of Education, can also get them back together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.62.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, we'll vote against this young man. And the congresswoman already knows that our group does not share Ciutadans' educational model, and especially we do not share it in language. Even though this is a young man who is entitled "on the right of the child– we understand that children too – they only talk to us about language, as if children and children do not have a main right that is the right to learning, the right to do it on equal terms, the right to relate... So many other rights. In any case, as I said, we would vote against it, with the exception of the last point, which has been incorporated with a slogan of the Socialist Group, which we believe is reasonable. Look, they've made reference to yesterday's feeling, a feeling that for us the evidence is something we've known for a while, huh? , that we have a problem of sobriety. A court has to tell us how many hours of castle we have to do in the classrooms in Catalonia in application of a state law, when the State establishes that in Catalonia the Generality has exclusive competence in the matter of education. Certainly, the new Law of Education will make this feeling no effect, because the new Law shields the català, while Together for Catalonia, therefore, did not recognize it. But in any case, we believe that the problem of foundations is another, that it is the problem of sovereignty and that what we need is to shield competitions. And for what he does to the model, they know that we defend linguistic immersion and we do it with handshakes, with evidence. What is the minority language in its social use in Catalonia? What's that? Is it the català or is it the castle? With what level of castle do Catalan speaking students come to Catalonia? Are they deaf or don't they know castle? And with what level of català do Spanish-speaking students come to Catalonia? Do they or don't they know català? Clearly, linguistic immersion, precisely, ensures that the entire student out of the educational system knows perfectly well the two languages, and we understand that this is a great richness, the richness of being able to know perfectly the two languages. Certainly, we'd like to improve the English level, but we didn't argue that the model you're guaranteeing is that. And you tell us that this model doesn't exist anymore and compares us with other realities that have nothing to do with Catalan reality. And precisely because of the Catalan specificity we believe that it has an interest in this immersion model. And they come out here, they tell each other that we're all liars, but they don't bring any empirical evidence. They didn't bring any. And the only argument they make, that he did the other day and that I've heard him say on repeated occasions, is that the spokespersons of the Catalan groups at the Congress of Deputies, so they don't have a level of castle enough good. I suppose it refers to his accent, as if the castle is not able to speak with different accents. Is it that they don't have his accent about Basques, Welshes or Andalusians? Or go to New York and see how Hispanics, African Americans, Asians, gringos speak English with distinctly different accents, which are not exactly the British accent, and they all do so in the same city. And, by the way, do you know who decides questions such as the P4's gratuity or the beggars' gratuity in New York City? So it is decided by the city's government, the local government; nor by the state of New York alone, which certainly has its own constitution, which we cannot hold here. As I said, we have a sovereign problem, as we hear it. But well, you with your speech foreshadow a problem that we simply believe does not exist on the street. And that's what we think is sad, because they're politics creating problems, instead of solving them; they're politics generating conflict, instead of promoting coexistence. But well, you'll know. Well, I was running out of time, and I let'macabar, president, with some graces and reflections from the end of the legislature. Thankfully, in the first place, to the workers and workers of the chamber, who make our parliamentary pocket possible. Thank you also to the Bureau for making this possible, and in particular to its President, for having resolutely defended the rights of Members and Members of this House to be able to speak of everything. And lastly, I do not want to leave without a record for all those Members and Members who were chosen to the ballot box in this chamber in this legislature, and who, victims of repression, have not been able to develop their pocket as representatives of the citizenry, some still in prison and others in exile, all of them for political reasons. This situation can be normalized from the point of view of the way. I am extremely sorry that we have not been able to agree to push forward what I sincerely believe is the feeling of the majority of Catalonia's citizens today: the freedom of prisoners and prisoners, the return of exiled people, the fate of all forms of repression and the democratic resolution of a political conflict. And it is in this sense that from my strict moral conviction, therefore, I want to express my support for amnesty and my desire because of what we have not been able to do from this chamber I can see the light thanks to the civic initiative of associations like Amnesty and Freedom. We learned 15-M and U of October, and I keep thinking that this is what really can make us move forward: citizenship before institutions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.63.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, the deputy Mr Carles Riera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.64.0	Thank you, President. Well, this Ciutadan's motion against linguistic immersion, this time, and it won't be the last time, obviously, that we answer them, and we answer them with our linguistic model, with our linguistic project. We live, we are part of a multicultural and multilingual society, and in this context of cultural and linguistic plurality we bet that the Catalan language follows the common language among all the linguistic communities that live in our country, because it follows the language of social use shared among all linguistic communities. We are far from this objective, still politically legitimate, and we believe it is shared by most of our society. And as long as this project is possible, it is essential that this also applies to the school, that the català follows the vehicle language and the common language, the language shared by the different linguistic communities that also coexist in our schools. And the best model to guarantee this is, for sure, linguistic immersion, a model that generates cohesion, of pedagogical quality and guarantees linguistic competence. And that's why we also ask the Government of the Generality, we place the Government that neither obeys nor applies any judgment, nor the TSJ or any other, that it intends to nullify this model of linguistic immersion. And, finally, president, a few words of coma too in the seconds I'm left. A special record for all the people who have suffered and who suffer from repression. A record for all the people who have suffered and suffer the effects of this health, economic and social crisis. Our commitment to continue fighting in the streets and institutions to defend freedom and the rights of all. A special thanks also to the workers of the chamber, to the workers and workers of the chamber. And finally, a special record, acknowledgment and acknowledgment of my company, my parliamentary group and parliamentary office companies, excellent, extraordinary people, with constant and tireless work, with political coherence. It's an honor to have shared this journey with them and to share the journeys that will come. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.65.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gemma Espigares has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.66.0	Thank you, President. I ended this last intervention with one more example of what this legislature has been: unfortunately, while some have wanted to seek consensus, they have wanted to talk about reality, what is needed, some confront, crispen, follow in a white and black policy that pursues them throughout the legislature, today trying to denounce rights of violation of children; when not, they also do so with language rights at university or in different areas. But while you continually climb the rights without recognizing political prisoners, without recognizing exiles, without even being able to look us in the face when we're talking, you come and try to denounce these political rights. I think that when they try to talk about mother tongues they forget that from this we have all, and I feel proud, to have like mother tongue the català, and also the castle, with some godfathers come from Andalusia who have created me in the castle, and that, therefore, I use one and another language without problems. But you're trying to explain that there's spying on the schools, that there's this confrontation that's going to keep them in the same place. And, unfortunately, I need to ask the PSC, because you, too, know that education policy is done to Parliament and is done to the Government, so that I stop following the extreme right, which in some things accompanies them. And you know that, because when some people who don't know how to win the ballot box try to win it in court, they may be much more powerful. And, Mrs. Sierra, if you want us to accompany you to "Santaco", you just have to wait until the 14th of February and see the ballot box which is the Catalan model that the families want to choose from; you don't have to go for excursions, like you see it in the ballot box, which is where it scares the most. And I'm trying to take a bigger look not to focus only on this issue, because I think it's obvious that during this parliamentary term we've done a lot of work, with all the members of the parliamentary group, but also with the whole parliamentary arch, and even with some members of your parliamentary group, that we've been able to agree on a lot of issues: on health issues, with entities, to move forward in the right to die worthily, and we saw today as we moved forward in the decriminalization of euthanasia, with the great work that DMD Catalonia has done. But also in the year that has been the year of Nursing Now, and with the nurses, that every time there is a cry again answer, as we saw, in less than twenty-four hours, overflowing all expectations of solidarity in order to be able to help with the vaccination in a year that is so complicated, and, moreover, with the president of the commission, with Titon Laïlla, and with Constellera Vergés leading what has been the health field. But also, with the university, and I see the vice president, who has captivated the 30-per-cent drop in university priests, so claimed in this chamber, or the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, because we know that putting a euro at the university is returning four. Therefore, we invest in knowledge, we invest in the social ascent, and in a legislature that has been marked by the principles of repression, and ending it with the reconstruction of the country, I feel it is possible to propose one hundred and four conclusions between the whole parliamentary arch to rebuild this country, and to do so in a socially just form. You follow determined in your own legislature, those who have the responsibility to continue working for amnesty, for self-determination, to continue putting feminism absolutely to all policies. And, if I may, President, I finish this intervention by accompanying myself, and I do so by thanking them, first, the opportunity to the company of Territori, and I remind Carmel Mòdol, who was the first to invite me to be part of all this political activism that we do from the Republican Left; but also to all the parliamentary group companies, which I said earlier; to the Young Republic, which has also been in the grip of many of the initiatives that we have shared; to the company of the municipalism that every day since the trinxera also do so, and with the mayor of the republic Miquel Pueyo to the captavant, and I do so with two precs. The first, to the companies and companies that need to continue building bridges, because it's much easier to destroy them; it's harder to build them, but to be more difficult it doesn't happen that it's also much more useful to the people, that in the end it's for what we have the fate or the responsibility to be here. And I'm also doing it with a very special person, to Congresswoman Marta Vilalta, with whom we've known for a long time, and who has the responsibility to captivate our project to the territory; a person who compromises with the territory, but who, moreover, has gained credibility and gained political influence in this country. Therefore, with all and every member of Parliament who has this responsibility, who can do it. And I end up with two graces, the essentials, because I've been following Tintin's comics a long time; in fact, since then. [[The speaker shows the chamber some illustrations.]] Surely you will know Tintin, even Milú, and some other characters. So I've had the chance to get to know the whole parliamentary family and this infographic is one way to exemplify it: without knowing all and every one of the people, you're in the middle of a story, and so the advisors, the technicians, the readers, the journalists, the uixers, all and every one of the members that make this possible. And, lastly, to the network of solidarity, of sorority that this legislature has been, and that somehow allowed me to persist and resist, with President Forcadell as far as reference, but every one of hers, because we change history, and among all we write this future with a lilac in mind. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.67.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Josep Maria Forné has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.68.0	President, Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, I want to make my intervention with a language theme, which seems to me to be a country theme, and therefore it is a theme of all, without any emphasis, say so, partyist; in any case, it is the first position I wanted to do. The languages have speakers and the speakers are in a territory, and the territories, the institutions of that territory, are in charge of guaranteeing the linguistic rights of those speakers. I say this, because sometimes it seems that people have – in the youth it's about "mother tongues – we are born with rights..., but it's the institutions that guarantee those rights, and those institutions are from a territory. Catalan is the first language of this territory – Catalan is the first language of this territory. I also heard it from a Catalan writer in the Spanish language that the castle is not an impromptu language of this territory, and I share it as well, but the Catalan is its own language. One of the keys and one of the doors of opportunity that has opened up to us the vengeance of nine people these last decades is that these languages that are not impromptu of Catalonia follow many more, and at this time, there has already been reference before, surely, are more than three hundred mother tongues that exist here. First observation: there are speakers, there are territories with speakers. Second: the minority language at this time, while the language is its own, is the Catalan language. The Catalan is experiencing a situation of diglysia with a difficult situation – not difficult, not: difficult – and the one that needs attention and care is Catalan language, at this time. There's a replacement process that's dangerous. The two large metropolitan areas of Catalan speaking territories of the Catalan Countries, Valencia and Barcelona, have, among the young..., that do not reach the 20_percent of Catalan speakers. Young people are the transmitters of the language, and therefore they are in the language that is at risk. This is the other consideration I wanted to make, which seems to me to be essential: the situation that is seen from the català. To speak of this situation there are three indicators: the knowledge of language, the use of language and institutional recognition. I said that it does not do so in a proposal for a resolution of a committee, which we only approve in knowledge; neither in use nor institutional recognition does the català approve – neither in use nor institutional recognition. Do we approve of knowledge? Miri, in good part – in good part – this approved knowledge is thanks to immersion. We will not give up the tool that makes it possible for the three indicators to follow the català the only one that has an approved one. And, besides, in this indicator, which is knowledge, it is an essential tool to be able to approve in the other, which is what makes viable the future perspective of the català, which is in use. So he immersed her, don't touch her; don't touch her. You don't impose it through other ways, like the courts. As much as there's armor, we always know that these armors don't have much more guarantee than the judicial sentence, but fine. He didn't touch our immersion, which is the only hope he gives us the català. Master Pompeu Fabra said if we fail the language we will all fail. And that's very clear to us, some of us. Therefore, we will vote that not all the young people and all the points that have been made about the young people. Also, in the end, obviously... well, obviously not, but in this case, what I want to do is a grace and a encouragement. A thanks to all Parliament staff, to all levels, to the legal level, to the level of attention, to the users, all, to the truth that parliamentary activity is very easy, and that is essential. An activity that requires this, say, agree and find bridges. And in this I invite you all who continue in this task. We need – and this, to encourage you – these bridges to guarantee the well-being of the citizenry, of all the citizens of the country, and this we all need, because we all represent a part, and for those we believe, to achieve full recognition and national freedom of Catalonia. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.69.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has a turn of new Congresswoman Sonia Sierra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.70.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I've been writing down the lies I've told you they'd tell, and they've told almost all of them, listen, almost a full in the 15th. [[The speaker shows the chamber a full.]] Let's see if I have the same eye for the Fat Christmas. Look, if after thirty years of linguistic imposition Catalan loses speakers, start thinking that linguistic imposition doesn't work, that freedom works so much better. And of those nearly three hundred languages in Catalonia, they are about 10_per_cent of the speakers. Except two, which have a 1_per_cent, the rest do not reach 1_per_cent, and serves as an excuse to trample more than 50_per_cent of the population. Don't hang up. His hispanophobia doesn't tickle. Look, Mrs Niubó, the Platform for Language is not an invention of Citizens, it is that they have explained it, that they gave the amendment to Republican Left. Esquerra Republicana has not denied it, but, of course, how they will not defend Platforma per la Llengua if they give them their money, if they give them their subsidies and the government delegate meets with them and takes pictures with them, with the spies of the children in the courtyards of the schools. Those who encourage the boycotts to pizzerias and other businesses. Mr. Parés, look, the kids don't leave school speaking Spanish, the kids come in speaking Spanish. You can be illiterate, you can never have gone to a school and speak a language. And, of course, it has nothing to do with accents, it doesn't make things up. They are Mr Batet himself and Mrs Ponsati himself, who recognized that they did not speak well Spanish. Nor is it an invention of Citizens. What else? I will not enter into insults and disqualifications, because in that you will always win me, it is not my style, you always win in insult and disqualification. And I want to take these last few seconds to thank all the members of the chamber, especially the Citizens' team, advisors, press technicians, communication technicians, and to wish, of course, all of you, Bon Nadal. [[the prayer sign «good Nadal]] Good Nadou and Merry Christmas. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impulse of the economy]] [[302-00277/12]] Let's get to the next point, which is the Movement following the government's inquiry into the impulse of the economy. To present it, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Party of Catalonia, the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.72.0	President, Vice-President, Members, Members, ahead of the health crisis, which involves the economic and social crisis, in the economic sphere we raised this question with the will to talk about the impulse of the economy, about what will be essential and about measures that will be essential for us to put the pandemic back together and try to recover the levels of economic growth that we had previously had. The fact is that the course of intervention is to eat the short term and to eat other measures also of economic character, which are also essential, which are those destined to try to keep businesses and keep jobs, which will also be very important in view of the impulse of the economy after the pandemic, because we do not lose business texture and we can recover, as I said, growth. And, in this sense, the motion, conditioned also for the inquiry, has a first block that addressed short-term measures, but that is measures that I think are not the simple measures to say 'listen' to me, we need to give help, because this is already being done by the government, but we are trying to put a little sign in the way that it is given and that these help is being provided, right? Therefore, the measures we put in place to try to keep as many businesses as possible and places of work... We ask that the government have a certain criteria and that it has a coordination so that you help them stay as far as possible for all those who are rebuffed. And we are aware that there are limitations, but despite the limitations, we must try to be as far as possible, and above all also to be provided between the different sectors that these aids are to be provided. We have a lot of feeling that you're helping them to summon themselves until this moment depends, their amount, on the ability they have each of the departments that summons them to be able to garner these help. And we think there's a need for proportionality. And in this sense, we ask that there be uniform criteria between all departments at the time of these calls. We're also asking for something that I think is very elementary, right? And it's that the tools to ask for these aids are the right ones, and we have guarantees that the right ones are the right ones. That is to say, we can't call – we haven't talked much and they've already recognized it – for help to the autonomous correctness – it's to say, to the correctness, the one that goes on top of it – and that the computer system is blocked, neither with the autonomous nor with any other sector. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that they are suitable for the type of aid. We're also asking them for something else that's enough of a call, it's enough of a common feeling, and it's asking them to talk to the sectors – to talk to the sectors – to let the sectors explain to them who are the problems they're experiencing, who are the ones that are their peculiarities. And what would be by note is that, even more so, before calling for aid, so I made a consensus with the sector. This will allow them to be much more sure of the help and allow you to help them and that all of these resources are destined, precisely, where they are needed and in the way they are needed, because sometimes it gives us the impression that it is a form of distribution. Also, and it's also a very elementary thing, we ask them to rely on economic and social agents, because they're not doing it – they haven't done it with the interdepartmental plan, with Coreco, they're not doing it with the Next Generation funds – they're not counting on economic and social agents, and we think they can also contribute to it. We also ask – we also ask – that the Government of Spain give more direct support to the economic sectors, more direct support from the Government of Spain. But, also, they can adopt and adopt tax and social contributions measures to alleviate the restrictions that many economic sectors suffer. And finally, between impulse measures – and very briefly – we point to two sectors that are the ones that have or generate most of the jobs: it is the tourism sector, it is the industry sector. Tourism is practically closed, and therefore reforms will be needed to boost tourism, but also industry, and tax reforms to improve the competitiveness of businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Antonio Espinosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.74.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, Vice-President and Counsellor of Economics and History, and Members of Parliament. Today we are celebrating the last session of a plenary session that will almost certainly be the last of the legislature, and the motion put forward by the People's Party is an excellent opportunity to highlight some of the economic aspects of the horrific year 2020 is assuming for health and the economy. All indicators – on employment, social security affiliation, industrial production, exports and so many others – have worsened and collapsed during 2020 due to an unprecedented economic crisis. In Catalonia, almost half a million unemployed workers, 240,000 workers affected by a temporary employment regulation file, and this, together with 85_percent of self-employed workers having their activity stopped or restricted, offers us a perfect X-ray of the painful economic situation in which so many people find themselves. The economy must always be at the service of people, always, but now more than ever it must have a human face. Today we can all face the health and economic crisis; we all have relatives, friends, acquaintances and relatives who are personally suffering from the double health and economic crisis that we suffer. The Government should be able to be more empathetic with the thousands and thousands of people who are so precarious, and therefore to help them, to help the many more. However, the different aid from the Government of the Generalitat – and from the central government, by the way – is short, whether direct or through funding lines. Precisely, the motion is in line with expanding, giving them more coverage, and that is why the Parliamentary Group of Citizens will support all measures. And we have contributed by introducing aid of two_ thousand_euro to self-employed and micro-enterprises that have seen their activity reduced by more than 50_per_cent; 1,200_euro to self-employed and micro-enterprises that have seen their activity interrupted in order to allocate those to the payment of their contractual obligations, such as the payment of rents, and four_ thousand_euro to all self-employed and micro-enterprises that have had to suspend their activity because of the restrictions resulting from the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. But, Members of Parliament, if aid is essential in the face of this crisis, learning from this crisis is still an absolute necessity. Catalonia is in a deep recession, and everyone, but especially the Government of the Generalitat, should learn some lessons so as not to repeat mistakes. The Government of the Generalitat should not limit itself, as it had done during the previous stage of economic boom, to taking advantage of the internal devaluation with low wages. On the contrary, once the current critical situation of the pandemic has passed, tourism, trade, industry, especially the automotive sector, on which we all know clearly faces threats should be recuperated. During these years, no programmes have been put in place to help companies transform by integrating new technologies and thereby enabling them to increase their productivity and competitiveness. We know that a key factor in increasing productivity and quality employment is undoubtedly investment, development and innovation. But this research and innovation must not be limited to industry, as is generally envisaged, but must cover all economic sectors, including, logically, tourism and trade. If we do not invest enough in this, Catalonia will have less and, of course, worse jobs. The Government of the Generalitat must resolutely invest economic and human resources to encourage companies to accelerate process automation, digitization and improve their internal organization. This is something that is often forgotten, but the improvement of the internal organisation of companies is essential. Because the companies that will survive and grow are the ones that the most technological advances incorporate and the more flexibility in tasks, schedules, etc., have. And the government, Members of Parliament, must support them in this transition. Only if, after the current crisis, we do this, we have turned this crisis into an opportunity. Thank you so much and happy holidays. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Fornells has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.76.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, good morning to everyone. We find ourselves in front of the debate of a motion of the People's Party on the impulse of the economy. A young man we share some of the measures asked for and, in fact, from the government is working to address him. Unfortunately, the difficult global pandemic situation of the Covid that we are patenting has led to some drastic steps being taken to protect the lives and to protect and prevent the collapse of the health system. Measures which have led to certain economic sectors being affected. That's why he's making a huge effort from the government to help them, and he needs to keep working to address this situation. I would like to thank Mr Santi Rodríguez for his willingness to seek consensus, and that he has accepted a good part of the points that we have presented from our group, with which we will support practically most of the points of the motion. One of the items that they didn't accept, which we already understand would be, is our item 4 at point 1.k. We proposed in the wording that the point be left to work for fiscal and financial sovereignty in Catalonia. The will of the Government and the parliamentary group that I represent is to work for fiscal and financial sovereignty in Catalonia, because it is the only way to ensure that all the resources of the Catalans that the Generality manages will always be at its disposal. This is why some of us have long wanted Catalonia to be a state and we are fighting for the Catalan Republic. It is also true that in the current standard market on different occasions the Government of Spain has failed to respect the migratory financial autonomy and regulatory capacity in tax matters that Catalonia has recognized. This happened, it was donated in cases of the PP governments, and also of the PSOE government. We're not giving support at 1:00. As has been said several times, there are basically two taxes on the creation of tax incentives that can have a positive impact on the different economic sectors: corporate tax, when it comes to companies made up of legal persons, and IRPF, when it comes to companies with physical persons. As for corporation tax, it's a tax that's not sold to communities, it's a state tax. Therefore, we have no regulatory capacity. And as for the IRPF, on the other hand, it is yielded, this tax, a part, of which it does recognize a certain normative capacity. However, this capacity is limited to Article 46 of Law 22/2009 on tax cessation, it is said that the deduction cannot refer to business investments nor can it imply a direct or indirect minority of a category of income, nor does it allow for the creation of deductions for grants or non-exempt public aid affecting the development of economic activity. That's why we're going to abstain. Nor will we vote in favour of 9.3 with the compromise reached with the Ciutadans Group. Obviously, we agree to help the local authorities and to help all those entrepreneurs and economic sectors that have been affected by the measures that had to be applied in the face of the Covid-19 crisis. In fact, the Government has worked hard to help as much as possible to provide direct support to different sectors most affected, such as, for example, EUR 252 million for the maintenance of economic activity for autonomous or micro-enterprises, EUR 18.9 million for the cultural sector, EUR 116.8 million for peppers, micro-enterprises and autonomous restoration, aesthetics and beauty and the oci sector, oci establishments, EUR 20 million for educational and extra-curricular entities, EUR 25 million for sports installations, EUR 19 million for tourism, EUR 13 million for industry support and economic promotion, EUR 253 million for additional contributions to public transport to compensate for the downflow of reduction. It has been tried to help the maximum and to keep working, because 2021, which will also be complicated, will need to help all affected sectors, which the State, for example, has not done. On the contrary, it has increased the share of autonomes. That's why we won't support this point 3. And because we believe that it is neither appropriate nor relevant to enter into the detail of the imports before we have agreed with the representatives of the autonomes to the Council of the Autonomous Work, who are the ones who know the real needs of the collection. That's why we're abstaining. Without being able to go into detail the rest of the points, I am making it all the while working to address this difficult and complex situation that we are living in our country. It is necessary to continue to put in place the maximum of efforts, resources and tools to help all economic sectors, to keep moving forward and to have as little impact as possible. Som-hi, make it possible. And I take advantage of these last seconds to thank the work of all the Members of this Parliament, as well as all the staff of Parliament. To the deputies and deputies who will continue in the next legislature, encourage them to continue working for the welfare of the people of our country. And to the deputies and deputies who did not follow, therefore, wish them much luck and much uncertainty. It has been a pride to share with all of you these years of work and work here in Parliament. Happy holidays and many thanks. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word now. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.78.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, a young person named after the impulse of the economy, come from where he came from, will always have the support of our parliamentary group. But, Mr. People's Party, what do you think we've done until today? Every department of our government has been looking to the bottom of the box for resources to help our citizens, our businesses and our entities. And I assure you, it's done with everything we have. The government has activated packages of direct help to autonomous people, I will not say the figures because I have just told them my company of the Republic Group, but I would like to say that they are also help for the sector of culture, education, reading, sport, restoration, aesthetics, beauty, the night oci, the fire. Very affected areas for coronavirus containment measures. Also to fight against the emergence of housing, help from the logger, help to facilitate housing for vulnerable families. EUR 122 million has also been allocated to intensifying containment policies for the most vulnerable groups. Support also for tourism, industry, public transport, self-employed and microenterprises in the food and small business sector. Now, finally, you exhaust the immediate resources and debt capacity of the Government of Catalonia, and before the slow reaction of the Government of the State to transfer resources from the European foundations, now it's time for them to stop looking at the Sant Jaume square and start looking at the Moncloa. The Catalan Government has devoted all its efforts to where it has been able. There's been a lot of them, and we don't tell them, you know why? Because if they want to look at the study published yesterday by one of the macrobanks, that every year they get their millionaire benefits proudly, and that they haven't returned one of the euros they gave in that rescue, and that we haven't felt you claim them every year, but they keep quiet..., so one of these banks has published a study about the impact of the pandemic on the Catalan economy, and if the fall of the economy is shocking, it also recognizes that it will be a little less than expected for the effort made by the Catalan Administration. And that's not what we say. And yes, they can criticize as much as they do help the locals, but do they know what they're talking about, in the end? Help. We've been trying to give help to the local people. And what are you talking about? Where do you only help from the Spanish State? They didn't make it. Can you say they're insufficient? It's still insufficient right now, all we need is insufficient. The best way would be for you to fit in once your parents and your opinions contribute more to the State's arks than to any other Spanish, and they also have much less than any other Spanish. And now and today we do need you to be the one to see her, so that the business of your Germans can raise the blind, because your friends who have gone unworked can collect the thread, and because they also get the money from ERTO, which they have not arrived, in many cases. Today his Popular Party partner means we're the ones who have the most fiscal pressure. I honestly don't know how they can look at our eyes and talk to us about tax pressure knowing we only manage a 15-percent tax. The Generalitat manages 100_percent of the policies of the welfare state, health, education, social care, and we only manage 15_percent of the taxes. Well, we can't talk more about dependency, too, where you should bring 50 percent, and the generality is making a huge effort to get to everything that the Spanish State doesn't go up and incomplete, and that you never come up here to ask. The Spanish State must already allocate the resources that the European Union will transfer to it to deal with the health crisis, but depending on the impact on the territory, not on population criteria. The Spanish State must end its fiscal deficit with Catalonia and complete its outstanding obligations and debts. The Spanish State has to solve the systemic infra-financing of the Catalan health system. And we could follow, but this reality has always denied it. And, finally, it's my last day at this cliff, and, as other companies have said, it's impossible not to remember what happened to us living. Very difficult situations, with this health crisis, but also very harsh – very harsh – situation of repression. You sometimes talk about a normal country. So a normal country is one that is respected by the fundamental rights that have cost so much to gain humanity, one that respects the right of demonstration and the right of assembly and the right of freedom of expression. Never be a normal country until our civil and political leaders are free. We have not advanced as expected in this path to independence of our country. We've gone a long way, a long way for this repression, but we've risen as often as the people, that I assure you this won't be the last. And you'd have to plant yourself in what kind of country we live in when and trick to introduce yourself to the lists of an independent party. You'd have to talk to your family about it, among all the consequences that this can have. And today I want to thank all those Catalans who have struggled long ago because our identity endures until today, and to whom they laid the first stone of this Parliament, the sight of our people, and where I have had the honor to work for a year and a half. And, finally, thanks to the staff of this Parliament, that every day with its impeccable work makes us see that forming part of this house is a prelude value; to all the deputies, and, above all, to my companions, to the indispensable Eva, Alba, Julio, the tandem Jordi and Josep Maria, to the Anna Grabalosa, to all the press team, to the tireless Marc, the Marta, to all the assessors, and as I said yesterday Helena, to my bowl, that support indispensable to resist at some moments, the friend: Helena, Anna, Ferran and all of you. We'll keep going. There's plenty left to do. Not a step back. Visca Catalunya free. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.80.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies and deputies, bon dia. Well, this is a small young man who incorporates many measures that should already be in place, that the government should already have in place, among other things, because many have already approved themselves, but how certain it is that this government should not, therefore, listen to this Parliament and the need not bring to an end what is in it. And, therefore, the feeling today, that it is the last Ple of the legislature, is of a certain frustration, and it is of a certain sense of futility as Members, because, why is it useful for a present, to make inquiries, to present motions, to negotiate them, to agree with the other groups, if after this government does not complete? And it doesn't even complete everything that costs a little money, as it is coming to submit reports of presupposition execution or reports of results of transfers from the state. So, it's no longer a matter that many things can't pull them forward because there's no resources, but because it hasn't volunteered, it hasn't volunteered on the part of the government. The government is less transparent, less dialogue that we've had in the past. Mirin, about the economic aid. We have always said this, we will give recollection to the Government with health care measures, despite the fact that they explain them late and poorly, and many times with so much ambiguity that it is hard for the city to hear what they are saying to us, as this morning has passed, but what we cannot gather in any way are those compensatory measures that do not accompany health care. For example, they have not presented economics, with which the sectors, such as inn, commerce, the night oci, the leureus, the firaries, are painted. There are so many sectors that would have been able to dispose of resources if we were to complement the motions approved in this Parliament. We haven't done papers to this young man, because the text that was already there seemed good to us, and they're still looking good at the additions that have been made by many groups, as well as by government groups, which, in fact, only remember, to incorporate things, when it's demanding things from the State. But, look, I want to say one thing to the groups that support the Government, which are so critical of the centralization of the State: so the State has decentralised to a base of EUR 16,000_million because the autonomous communities manage it, and to Catalonia they have transferred about EUR 3,200_million to us. And do you know how much they spent on November 31st, according to their data, of 3,200? : 2,058. Where are the other 1,100_million euros? You won't be able to explain it to us, Vice-President, because there won't be any more economic commissions, but we've been happy to know. With his data, he's reckoned, there's 2,058. Maybe the month of December will just spend these 1,100. Mrs. Freixa, tell them to manage 15_percent of the taxes. Do you know that there is a transfer to the autonomous financing system of 21,000_million euros? I say so because then, of course, 15_per_cent seems to follow the wreaths... no, the wreaths don't. We have a presumption of 46,000, 30,000_million euros not to finance, and of these, 21,000_million euros come from the State with the autonomous financing system granted between all in 2009, and that if it is not updated it is because of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana, who did not negotiate it when it played. In any case, we have already told Vice President Aragonès that what he has to do is spend more, because now we see 2,058 until November 31; we will see what happens to the other 1,100_millions. But it's that, in the band, you're not doing any more... listen, you're saying your data, Vice President, in terms of commenting on it with your deputies, you know what I could do? Give an explanation. This is what we expect, the Members and the parliamentary groups that are part of the opposition. And one thing, we're telling you to spend more. Why don't they do more? You're making it worse, the government will cover it in the form of a debt. We do not understand, because it does not spend more, 200, 300_million; it is that a tenth of GDP is 250_million euros, that they could help much now the inn sector, very angry with you because they have surely punished them the most, in these restrictions that they have presented this morning. Why don't they? Plus, one more thing. When a review of the data that you have posted on the web, we add that you have reduced short-term debt, 1,400_million euros of debt to short-term term. Why do they return debt to short? I would understand..., it's a good management year 2015, but the year in which we are, with the pandemic, have actually reduced you 1,400_million euros in short? Well, then, explain to us: it has reduced debt, it is not spending more, it will not make more deficit. Listen to me, we believe that, frankly, it is hard for this government to explain itself, because, if you know, then what I should do is explain to us what's going on. And tell him that in these moments we want him to spend more and do everything he can. It is true that we are in the middle of nowhere; but, listen to me, what we should have done is spend more, it is compromise with the economic sectors that if the thing is complicated to the generation you will be there, because, unfortunately, we don't have a new government, because you didn't call elections when you were looking, knowing what could happen, what happened, and therefore the change will have to wait until after the 14th of February. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.81.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.82.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'll give support to many points of this young man, then I'll talk to him; some of us won't, because we don't share them. We believe in fiscal autonomy, which we do not believe in fiscal paradises. I already know that we do not agree with this, but it is obvious that Madrid today acts as a tax haven in the Spanish State, and that this is to regulate it, if not, what we do not want to follow for the same line that we have now, that Madrid acts in a disloyal way with the rest of the autonomous communities, and that, moreover, the middle classes and the popular classes of Madrid pay, above all, with public services that are clearly deficient. But you said we'd give support to the young lady, and it's not surprising that we're giving support to a young woman from the People's Party, and I think that, in the end, she expresses a little the feeling we have, right? , which ends up feeling more like some of the points that write the People's Party motion than, for example, what is being done today by the Government of the Generality and what is being done by the Government today by the Republican Left and Together for Catalonia. The truth is that this week I was demanding that he take economic measures, that there be planning, that, in addition, if he took more restrictions, so, years in parallel with more economic help... But what we saw today, or so, I think is already insurmountable. That is to say, the level of chaos and governance that the Government of the Generality has today is spectacular; that is to say, what has happened between today and yesterday..., we tank but we do not tank, we apply restrictions but there are no restrictions, and at the end of the day, we go back to the end of the road, which is that measures are taken without economic planning and real help that help the affected sectors. And I said it the other day, Mr Aragonès: we are not talking about music, we are not talking about figures, we are talking about people, people who have been told by you today, for example, to restoration workers, who can only open between the morning sets and middays and one and middays and the three and middays, and who then have to close, without any help. Are you saying, as they arrive at the end of the month, these sectors? You are making decisions without a real economic plan to help, in this case, to deal with the situation. And I'm also insisting on it..., I'm saying it over and over again last month: economic policy is incomprehensible at these times of the Government of the Generality. And I said it by active and passive; it's to say: the Generality has to make it more difficult than it has at these moments in the table. I know that at the end of the year, that you now have more money in the box for questions of treasuries, do not tend them; but it cannot be that the Valencian Community has a deficit of 2_per_cent by the end of the year and you are nailed to 0.7. And that's it; he can say what he wants. And you know perfectly well that the State will finance this deficit more. And the most obvious proof that they had time to spend it is that, after their failure with the help of the autonomes, they have allocated almost 260_million euros to cover not only the situation of the autonomes, which is welcome, but to cover the failure of the Councillor of Treball and why what had been produced was an authentic shame. So, for that matter, I'm going back to ask. The Parliament ended today, I don't know if we're going to have a permanent parliament, but I ask you to invest in it, to mobilize resources, to mobilize sectors that can't take it any longer, and above all to make clear decisions and to make people understand them. And what can't be done – I insist more on what I have before – is to shut down but not to lock up, to restrict but not to restrict, to restrict only for some, who are the ones they have most, but not for what they have least, and, above all, not to put economic resources on the table, right? And I do want to devote the last minute, because surely it will be my last intervention this legislature, in my case it will depend on the voters, therefore, if I return to the Parliament of Catalonia..., but to claim a way also different from political iron. I think it can be discussed, it can be punishing, I mean, it can be vehemently, I think sometimes I know it, maybe in excess, but always with respect, and it can also be agreed, huh? I have been fortunate enough to share Parliament with many of you, from different parliamentary groups: Mrs Geis, Mr Bloods or Mr Civit, Mrs Sirvent, the Navy Bravo, or, if not, Mr Rodriguez, of whom I am next. And also, for example, I would say my inseparable friend Romero, of which, therefore, I am also later, in this legislature. I think it's possible to debate, confront, but I also think it's possible to agree and do it between different groups and break the dynamics of blocks in which some have wanted to install this country. I also want to thank all the people of my parliamentary group, especially the Conchi Abellan, and especially my dear Marta Ribas, who did not repeat themselves as Members. I think they're missing. I think Catalonia will find them missing. Also to the technical team and the communication team of Catalonia in Comú We can; without them we would be nothing. And just wish them a nice ring entrance. I'm sure 2021 will come back to smile, and I'm also sure we'll have a new government in Catalonia, which I think it needs. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.84.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. I want to take advantage of this last intervention to thank, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the tireless work of Érica Bel, who is the coordinator of our parliamentary group, who is always an invisible work, and who is also a foundation for our organisation. It doesn't end here today. We go on and on sharing battles and trenches. I who comes out, to the Lands of the Ebre, to be able to hold it. With regard to the motion for a resolution, we shall vote against, or abstain from, the motion. But before explaining the positions in a generic way, it is necessary to explain some questions. The truth is that we are located in the antipodes of the economic policy of the People's Party, because for us the elements that must be driving the economy are others. The first is that the public sector is the engine of the economy, to drive the economy from the public sector with processes of internalisation of those services that are today lending themselves privately, a public bank at the disposal of the local authorities and small businesses to plan the economy, a public pharmaceutical to guarantee real health and a public undertaking to manage the industry for the economic transition. Second place, increased wages, an increase in wages for the working class. We already know that we do not defend consumerism or consume beyond what is needed, but now the working classes, the popular and working majority of our country, do not live above their possibilities, but below their needs. I repeat: they do not see over their possibilities, but under their needs. If we cover through an increase of the needy, we are also activating demand, and therefore, activating the economy, two elements which are not revolutionary, which are reform and Keynesian policies, but which we believe are fundamental. And why, therefore, will we abstain and vote against most points? A rule of aid and subsidies that does not value whether businesses are benefiting from millions of dollars at these times of crisis or not, and, therefore, that they are widespread, to us they do not seem a good solution; a down payment of taxes that we do not only not share, [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] but – I finish, President – it does not take into account the reality of companies. The only one we will vote in favour will be to consult representative entities, within sectors, to meet the commitments made and the creation of the contingency plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, Mr Santi Rodríguez has a turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.86.0	Thank you. Well, make it clear that in the middle of nowhere we're asking for taxes to be lowered. I'll tell Mrs. Freixa. We don't even ask that he's a general helper. Precisely, it's the other way around, it's that what you can't do is take a bunch of money, leave it in the middle of the square, and that people are pulled over to look for them, which is what they've done with their own names. That's what I can't do. And that's what we're telling them, that they have criteria at the time of setting up the aids, and that, in addition, they're provided and that they're not exclusively dependent on departments and capabilities that departments can have to find resources, but it's a cross-cutting action. That's what the young lady asks for – that's what the young lady asks for. And that's why we've accepted the Ciutadans puzzle, negotiated, to prove..., and I'm convinced that... obviously, it's not this, the distribution system we want, it's not. But it does prove that even from Parliament and from the opposition we are able to have criteria. And that's what we're asking the government, criteria, which is what it doesn't have and what it hasn't put in the help they've called up until now. And the second question, autonomy will finance, the fiscal autonomy of the communities. From fiscal sovereignty to tenim– shared, to tenim. What's going on is that you use the tax regulatory capability to push all taxes and create all the ones you need and most. We have world champions with taxes, and so the tax competitiveness indexes tell us, because taxes have an impact on the competitiveness of businesses. Catalunya, to the cua; Madrid, to the captavant. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The problem is that you want to avoid it is that the other communities also have fiscal autonomy, have fiscal sovereignty. And that's why you're trying to get others to support taxes as you do. So I'm escorting, respecting autonomy, respecting sovereignty. This is what we are asking for in this young man, who respects the financial autonomy of the communities, above all, of the other communities. Because you wouldn't accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[He asked the Government about depopulation, globalisation and climate change in the rural world]] [[300-00348/12]] After the debate, we move to the next item on the agenda, the twenty-first, which is the question to the Government about depopulation, globalisation and climate change in the rural world, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word the deputy Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.88.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're in an interpellation – well, good morning, deputies, advisors – about depopulation, globalization and climate change in the rural world. The truth is that for me it is a pride to be able to close this last plenary with a rural theme, and I imagine that also for you and for the councillor it is an opportunity to explain the actions of this legislature. Really, this inquiry wanted to make a review of everything that has been carried out in the hands of these subjects. Mrs. Jordà, I'm going to be honest with you, and with all the affection I have for you: given the panorama of this government, of which you are a part, I'd almost dare to call it the least bad of all the counselors – understand that it's a whistle, huh? But there are anecdotes that reflect a fund, that do not add up to positive, and that I want to expose today. First, the first of all: a communicative error with the theme of raw milk. I think it was very badly explained at the time. Health alarms were dropped and this could or could seriously harm the sector. Second mistake: it's not believing that your role as a counselor is so important. An agriculture advisor must be very scrupulous with the image she gives, because it is not only her personal image, it is the image of what she represents, and come out on the net with a beer labeled as « fuck Spain – « Spain, fuck you – I laugh and, moreover, without apologizing later, then it does not touch. And, besides, it is offensive to many Catalans. You imagine I'm going out, but instead of Spain, you put Catalonia, Girona or Vic; what would you think of me? She didn't apologize at the time, but I invite her to do it today. I know it's a mistake, but I invite you to apologize. But the problem of the agriculture councilwoman I don't think are her mistakes, this is I think two anecdotal points. In any case, it's his shortcomings. You have let the agriculture council lose specific weight over the rest of the government. You have been allowed to start skills that should be managed from the same consultancy: natural environment, wildlife – not only kinegetics, but also invasive and protected species –, forest management, also in protected areas. You have been helped by my parliamentary group, by Ciutadans, for example, in the Agrarian Spaces Act, in which Ciutadans has brought countless improvements, but you have not appreciated it in public. I invite you to do so today too. You have received the support of my parliamentary group also in the Wine Law, and together the truth is that we have done a good job. It is not the magic solution to all problems in the wine and wine sector, we know, but it was a necessary law. But she has not appreciated it in public either, and I also invite her today to do so. But you have allowed the primary sector not to be well represented in the Nature Agency. You have left the forestry sector outside the decision-making centre of this agency, for Mr Calvet's benefit. Thanks to this poorly resolved rivalry, the real managers of the natural environment, which are the agricultural, forestry and fisheries sectors, have not been united. As you will understand, I don't care what differences you and Mr Calvet have, or between Esquerra and Junts, but when this harms the sector I defend, I am concerned about. You are also responsible for not having managed to recover the budgets for agriculture. We do not reach the proportion of other neighbouring autonomous communities that have a similar sector to ours, nor have the cuts made almost a decade ago been recovered. You are also responsible for not returning dignity to a group of professionals who depend on you. I'm talking about the Rural Agents. I have been defending the body for five years and, at least, now the truth is that there are serious deficiencies and some things have been corrected. But there's still a lot to go on. There is no need to regain much prestige and recognition that they deserve. Nor is the staff up to the level of work ahead, nor do they have the necessary material resources, and if we look at some details, such as, for example, the marine environment, precariousness is even more serious. Another unsolved issue, which is already chronic, is prices at source below production costs. It is not your fault, I know that the problem is a complex one and it is difficult to solve, but I am missing a credible strategy to move forward in solving this problem. That is why today you have an opportunity to give at least a brief explanation of what the councillor's work in this regard is. And I want to finish this list of reprimands for acting in the face of emergencies. Two: one, the Delta, and the other, the Covid. Regarding the Delta, I know that the Department of Agriculture has collaborated in the recovery of crop fields and irrigation systems after the Gloria, but I ask you one thing: please press Mr. Calvet to release the 6_million_euro he has saved for the Delta emergency. It is not your responsibility, but your Government's. Therefore, help that the same effort that Agriculture has made will also be done by Mr Calvet with Territori. And regarding the Covid emergency, I have also followed several lines of help that have been made from the Department of Agriculture. But, really, there are many producers who have stayed in the gutter, and I ask you a series of questions, to see if you can answer me today. How is the ornamental plant sector, which has had a great impact on the first confinement, on the first state of alarm? What about the vineyard, the wine and the cava? What about the lambs? Because he's also suffered a big stick. I would like to know, in general, what plans are in place to rescue all entrepreneurs and self-employed people in the sector who are at risk of bankruptcy. In short, if I have to accuse you of anything, it is that I have not been influential enough within your Government to work more, to work better for the primary sector, also for the agri-food industry. But I want to talk about depopulation, globalisation and climate change in the rural world, because, if not, the first thing he will say is that we say a title and we don't talk about what we say in the title, and I want to talk about those three things. First, the depopulation. Rural depopulation has been dealt with quite often in this Parliament. But I insist that it is the agriculture council that must lead both rural development and the fight against depopulation. And I say 'lead because it is not really the sole responsibility of agriculture, it is of the whole government. Depopulation has various causes: health services, access to education, care for the elderly and disability, access to housing, etc. Families in a rural environment must feel sheltered, protected, with income equivalent to other environments. It should not be more difficult to live in a rural municipality than in a city, and, of course, with all this agriculture is just a piece of all these factors. But I will give you an argument to see if you can squeeze the rest of the government at this time. And it is that primary sector activity is the only activity of all that can be done in the rural world that can only be done in the rural environment. Therefore, with depopulation, agriculture and forest management, for example, are the main sectors left behind and affected by death. This is the reason why your councillor should lead and drag the rest of the councils, and do not forget a fundamental tool for the development of an agrarian area, which are the irrigated ones. A tool to boost the economy of a territory and improve incomes is to be able to water. I remind you that the Segarra-Garrigues is not finished, that the Xerta-Sénia is not started and that the Urgell is about to modernize. I mean, there's a very important job ahead of us. There is a job now, and also this job was pending a year and a half ago. There is no future for agriculture without modern and efficient irrigation, and it is essential to prevent the abandonment of farms. And what about globalization? For, lately, the campaigns for the promotion of our fresh, elaborate products are being promoted; it is essential. But self-consumption, although it helps, does not support our agriculture, our livestock and our agro-industry. Catalonia is eminently an exporter; we must not forget. And if for the topic of markets we will go very well abroad, we also come input from abroad, such as, for example, pests, diseases and invasive species. And today I wanted to focus on African swine fever, the PPP. The PPP affects a sector that does not need to explain that it is, not important, very important. Pork in Catalonia has a very large specific weight, both in production and in export. But I have to remember the seriousness of the possible closure of the external markets for meat and pig products. It would affect not only the immediate losses of the closure, but the closure of the market, which would take years to recover, because it would simply occupy it by other people who also produce pork. I propose several measures, that if I do not give time I will explain them in the second part. One of the measures will be... that is, one of the entry points would be the import of live animals. The solution is easy: check-ups in origin and destination, and create truck cleaning centers. And we're still talking in the second round of words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, the Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, Mrs Teresa Jordan, responds to the inquiry. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.90.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. The truth is that it is a pleasure for me that in this last plenary of this parliamentary term, once more the opportunity has been created to give visibility to some of the actions and some of the public policies that we have promoted since the department, and that we continue to push, in order to give response and anticipate the challenge of depopulation and climate change in the rural world in a context, obviously, as the deputy pointed out, of globalisation. And, before anything else, and I will not tire of repeating it, remember that, before the demographic challenge of depopulation in the rural territories, it is extremely essential that the response remains involved, and not only participated, but also coordinated between the different levels of administration, the territorial entities and, obviously, also the various agents involved in the implementation of these territories. Because, as we have always defended from the department as well, and a servant from this Faristol, the repte of depopulation is not just a competitive problem of this department, but is a very large repte, an ingenious repte, of country, with implications and opportunities, obviously, various. And it is that the people who have decided, and also I am not tired of saying, those people who have decided, those men and women who have decided to develop life in rural areas must have a school close to them. All those people who have decided to develop their life plan in a rural environment, therefore, should not have to move in a disproportionate way for health care, should have been able to access the population nucleus in an agile and, at the same time, also safe, have Internet connection or mobile coverage, or, basically, therefore, be able to find a habitat in order to accommodate it and make it its home. And precisely, the European Union's rural agenda has the objective that rural land agents can directly engage in the formulation of regional, national and community rural policies that affect them, such as employment, generational change or sustainable development. The goal is to achieve balance, balance and territorial cohesion between these poles, huh? between these two mons with certain disaffection: this rural world and this urban world. In this way, in a sense of doubt, relations of cooperation can arise between the rural and urban environments. And this is one of the objectives of the European rural agenda. But also from the rural agenda that a few days ago, therefore, I had the opportunity, for an inquiry by Congresswoman Marta Vilalta, to speak also in this house. Another challenge is to apply – we understand this – three fundamental principles about the combination of European policies. The first is the balance, as I said, rural and urban, as basic principles in the combination of policies, the equality between man and woman, important. The second is the equality of rights for the whole of the city, already viscous to the people or to the cities or to the rural territories. And a third point is fairness in the distribution of resources among all social workers and all territories, so that they can be exploited properly, huh? , the capacities of intercanvi, and, at the same time, also the skills of each, compensating, obviously, for the specificities inherent in the rural territories. But I left'mfer a note on the rural agenda of Catalonia, which is, I think, the one that occupies us. What have we done with this country? What have we done with Catalonia? So, look, in its moment, and we have also repeated it on various occasions, it was created the Interdepartmental Commission on Rural Depopulation, a reference tool, and you know it, at the governmental level and attended by actors and actors who bring knowledge and expertise. Precisely in this framework, and with the important impetus of the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia, but also with the collaboration of the Association of Micropopulations, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development, the CADS, has raised the need to establish a specific rural agenda, the rural agenda of Catalonia. This is the task of the Interdepartmental Commission on Depopulation, which met on September 10th, and we did it again on November 19th so that we could approve this proposal and approve its methodology, as we had to, as we had to. And what are the steps we need to take on this agenda? So once the task is done, the agents will be based on an extended and three-phase participation methodology, huh? , with the intention that the participation of the Administration, but also of the entities and also of the citizenry, is as wide as possible. And this agenda must also be used in order to be able to deal effectively with climate emergencies, that is to say, two things at a time. In addition to this agenda, which I have already put forward, and I have already done so here in your parliamentary office, this methodology must be completed in six months – in six months – in order to pull it forward and develop it, obviously, accompanied by resources. Plus, we've also been working intensely in two senses, huh? One, to attend to the emergence, and also to modernize the sector. And now I'm talking more at the general level. Since the department we have mobilised 15_million euros in direct and indirect aid to attend to the emergence, and I refer – and already context – to the whole issue of the Covid; 15_million dollars to help small producers and make an important donation of perishable food to the food bank, more needed than ever for the social impact, obviously, of this pandemic. About 15_million have also allowed liquidity to be given to the wine sector, to the fishing sector, to the flower sector and to the ornamental plant – very and very touched, as you remembered – or to the sheep and goat sector, or to the rabbit sector. In fact, it has directly touched the affected sectors. So these sectors have had this emergence impact of the department. It's been key, too, and I'm leaving it to myself, so, uh, the vice president's paper to activate all this help, huh? And there was also the work done by the whole department, which has worked tirelessly to implement aids, let me also hide, innovators, help us, like the public purchase in these small producers to donate to the food bank. But further away from giving birth, we also work with a long look, as it can't be otherwise, huh? , in the necessary leap that we need to make as a country from a point of view of agri-food policies, as you have also pointed out, very important; in the plan of transformation of the forest and maritime sector for the next years. What we call ‘Reactive and Transform'. Because it is now time to accelerate, because of the urgency imposed by the Covid, but also the opportunity at the level of economic resources, we have the European foundations foreseen in agri-food, forestry and maritime policies. To boost, of course, the bioeconomy. That's why we're also developing the department's bioeconomy strategy, which the Generality will manage in its own years. In short, it's a change, the change that we're going to make, on the sidelines of the sector, huh? , both the definition of projects and the management of funds. And we're already working folds to frame two transformative projects worth over 3,000 million euros in five years that we want to push. The CAP issue already knows it perfectly, here too there are a lot of mobilized resources. And leave'mfer a mark on the PEAC, huh? Before we're done. One more reference to the demographic challenge, the depopulation and the climate emergency is this PEAC, the strategic platform of Catalonia's food supply. A few weeks ago the participatory process ended, framed within the set of actions due to end for the Català Council of Food, which created the year 2017 with the aim of developing a food strategy to cope with the challenges of the future that we have as the country. So now, well, today I'm also proud and, let's just say, I'm glad to say that some of us have come to present the document as a result of all this participatory process, huh? , this Pla stratègique de l'alimentation de Catalunya, a document participated for the primary sector, distributors, food transformation, research; here there is also the third sector, innovation or gastronomy, eh? which have been part of this Parliament of Food, and which has to culminate with the great national pact for food in this country. And in conclusion mode, and exhausting this last minute and a half, huh? , the emergence of the Covid-19 and its social and economic consequences has led to a change in general perception in the rural world. What we need to do, then, is to take advantage of this opportunity in the sense of weaving ecosystem models, let me just say so, much more durable, much more sustainable and much more respectful, beyond this first perception, huh? If you don't hear the rural world as a garden, because it would be absurd, but as a place to live there, to live there and a place of opportunity for those, as we say to the principle, who have decided to develop their life plan in the rural area. In fact, this responsibility, to achieve this challenge, is a question of responsibility for all, because relocating rural areas to the centre of country policies is also an opportunity to be able to banish the threat of depopulation and mitigate the effects of climate change. And here I leave my first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.91.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the Member has the word again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.92.0	Yeah, well, the truth is, he's answered a lot of things, but there's a few things left, I hope in the last five minutes he'll give you time. I propose several measures, as I told you before, on African swine fever. One was to stop the import of live animals. The second route of entry is through the wild boars, for which I bring you a solution, several, which are: population control, surveillance of the natural corridors of entry of the wild boar population from the north of the Pyrenees, improving the relations of the Government with the hunters, because it is not a friendly relationship, and starting at once with the Catalan Hunting Act. We have a Francoist law and we have powers since the 1980s to change it, and there has been no intention whatsoever. I hope you'll let me know now that you've already got her in the drawer ready to get out of the oven, I hope so. But, really, it is essential to talk to the sector, because, if not, we are in danger, really. Then there's the food traffic. It is to collaborate with farms and producers in strict control of entry to farms and greater biosecurity. And one last step is to coordinate us with the ministry for border control and for the movement of vehicles on our roads. Much work remains to be done and I would like to be able to comment on what is being done in line with the prevention of African swine fever. And with regard to climate change, I wanted to unite two concepts, which are better understood together: one is the great risk of forest fires and what is always talked about about the energy transition and the decarbonisation of the economy. Well, the risk of major forest fires is largely driven by the abandonment of farms and the abandonment of forestry and grazing activities. One way to reduce this risk of major forest fires is forest management, to have a managed forest, and a product of this forest management is biomass for energy use. We talk a lot about wind energy, solar energy, when we talk about renewable energy, but we don't talk too much about biomass. Its legislature has not really stood out for enhancing forest management, and I believe that this must be reversed. And I'd also like to hear about it here, that you have that intention, or that you've worked and I don't know it – but I don't think so. Enhancing forest management has many advantages. First, it stimulates the economy of the rural environment: we need labor, machinery that is damaged and we have to fix the, there are workshops, there are sawmills, with which there is a population fixation in the territory, which is what we talked about at the first point of depopulation. The existing fuel in forests is reduced, therefore, the high risk of a forest fire becoming a major forest fire is reduced. With all this we improve the supply of biomass, in the form of chips or pellets. But we must also work to improve demand: to facilitate the installation of boilers in public buildings, the use of boilers in homes and small businesses and, most importantly, to promote the continued energy supply in the industry with large biomass boilers. Because this, this continuous demand, is what encourages forest owners to manage their forests, because we already know that only a demand guaranteed over time makes a forest exploitation viable, that we already know that the cycles are ten, twenty or thirty years old. Consellera, Catalonia is a forest land, and well managed forests are sources of wealth and life. Let's count on them. I can sum it up, so that you can give me time to answer: about African swine fever, about the forest management of biomass, and I remind you that you have not told me anything about the irrigation plan. And now, finally, this minute, I want to say good-bye to this legislature. And I hope I can continue to work in the sector, either from here or from where the voters put me. For me to be here is a privilege and an honor, but it is also a great responsibility. That is why I make myself available to all Catalans, for a Catalonia of all, to work for a sector that I am passionate about and to which I have dedicated my professional life, my personal life and my leisure life. Thank you all. And I'll see you soon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.94.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Dominguez. The truth is, it was a pleasure, too, huh? , to work, despite the discrepancies, that of course there have not been so many as many times we try to manifest some of a Faristol. But in any case, it was also a pleasure for me. To try to answer very quickly, because I think that in the first intervention I have answered many things, but it is obvious that there are still many things left, because there are so many. First, let's leave'mdir, huh? , to clarify it. That is to say, you said: « Counselor, has been allowed to hire competitions. No, no, no, not one. In any case, competitions that you and I, surely, can agree that would correspond to such an important department as the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food of this country, so we would agree, surely, we would agree. But, say, when a servant had the privilege of settling this challenge of being a counselor of this sector so essential to the country, these competitions were no longer there, were they? It is to say, that, on the contrary, what we have done is defend everything there and more before any of the legislative challenges that this legislature has had. He also made you a member of the Agency of Nature. Here we have also defended, as it cannot otherwise be, the sector. And now we'll see, in the rule of law, huh? If we really are able to falsify it, which is the compromise we have, not only from this department, but also from the Department of Territory. The subject of assumptions. Leave me alone: sure, you and I would agree, because we want them much higher. In fact, the country would have to claim them much higher. And the sector hopes that I will continue to fight and ask for better assumptions. But in any case, beyond what we found, the increase was 13_per_cent. Insufficient? Home, so yes, huh? But I assure you that the next legislature, if a servant can also say anything, these assumptions will grow exponentially, in an important way. You're telling me we haven't returned our dignity to the Rural Agents' House. Home, let me hide: that's not true at all, on the contrary, huh? And I think the same agents would be able to show it today. We've worked... I remember when Constellera Serret took over this task as well as being consellera from this department found a subdirection. The Rural Agents' Cox has set a cos, let me just hide it, not extremely well treated, but in general, huh? For the government of the country, because he went from one councillor to another... Well, now we have him, we esteem him and we embrace him, and that's why we've worked on a strategic map of the Rural Agents' cos that we're deploying – which in fact we're already deploying. In fact, we have already published fifty subinspector seats, but for the coming year, not fifty, which marks the PECAR, we have already put down a hundred, because the thing– you know and must agree with me– is a wrapped thing that obviously needs to be promoted. We've obviously equipped them with mobile vehicles; we've also equipped them... we're not improving the same structure, are we? , from the same Directorate-General, etc. That is to say, in this we are concerned, in this strategic area. The theme of the righteous priests. He said, "I won't waste any more time," that's to say, it's not a matter that comes from this council, nor just from this Parliament, is it? And in this we are concerned, too, to "squeeze the ministry a lot. In fact, even last week, I had the opportunity to be at a sectoral conference with the minister, while we were talking about common agricultural policy, I put the falcon back in a distended moment on the subject of the food chain, huh? , because it doesn't have to be just a matter of vision, but it has to have practical effects. Because sustainability, as much as we're talking about it, starts when the farmer, when he pays, when he picks up, when the fisherman can make a living, if not, there's no sustainability that exists. The rural agenda, I've already talked about it. The theme of the rigadius dish. Home, we're concerned, I've explained 50 million times, and, plus, not just that, we've done it, huh? Even the other day a servant was also in Colomers to explain an inversion, because, of course, we always talk about the Segarra-Garrigues – important, vital –, the Urgell – important, vital –, the Xerta-Sénia, obviously, but we also have to remember that there are no others in the country, huh? There are other recs. In this case, for the subject of the Urgell and in this transformative plan with these projects and these 3,000_million euros, let me say 'hodir': from the department we have 1,300 to develop in five years, and here it does not only enter the modernization of the Urgell, but many other things. But, in addition, we will approve for the government also the infrastructure plan – of regadiu, of course – the PEF, where here there is also an important package. The Hunting League. You've got all the reason for the world, it's from the Franco era. We open the melo, you can be convinced that we will start with a decree to try to update many things, because you know, and you have to agree with me, that it will bring a lot of debate and that's what we do, huh? , through this co-governance, speak briefly and debate such an important law. And more, these last two, so, also to say, to falsify, that, in short, from the department we are content. Much work remains to be done, but I think the sector is well on its way. I think we've made it clear that this is an essential sector for this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.95.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the balance of the legislature and the challenges of the future in cultural matters]] [[300-00345/12]] Let us move on to the next and second question, which is the question to the Government on the balance of the legislature and the challenges of the future in cultural matters, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mr. Rafel Bruguera. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.96.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and Deputies, honourable councillor. At this later point on the agenda of the second plenary of the second parliamentary term, my parliamentary group has made it easier for me to reflect with you and balance what cultural management has been about in our country, and to exhaust – and perhaps from this point of view, at least for me, it can be the most important part of the intervention – some of the challenges of the future that culture has in our country. From the outset, I would like to say, Counselor, that this legislature has been failed, from our point of view, also in cultural matters. I'll explain. In the first place, we've had three advisors in three years. Actually, a bad omen to stem policies from falling beyond day-to-day management. Secondly, if we go back to the ruling plate of the second parliamentary term, the incompliments are very important respect for many of the points explained to Parliament with all solemnity. I repeat: the ruling plate of the Dotzen legislature. I'll talk about some of them. Elaboration of the law of immaterial assets. Well, it's in the government plan, it's in the government plan. We finish the legislature and don't know anything about it, from this modification of the Law of Heritage, which we have already told you on various occasions, we believe that it must be framed in the modification of the Law of Cultural Heritage, which is of 93– therefore, it has implemented, many years ago–, and therefore take advantage of this adaptation, this modernization of the Law of Cultural Heritage to incorporate the immaterial heritage. Promotion of accessibility in cultural, library, museum, scenic and musical equipment... Well, we haven't seen any concrete action, there's no plan, at least we know. Promotion of performing arts, music and visual arts in the school environment. It seems to me that it is quite obvious that there has not been any novelty in this sense either. Powering the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization and Teaching and Learning Strategies for Adults. Nor; the proof, counsel, is that in the period of confinement, in telematic classes, there have been many problems, not only for the students – especially those of the inicians, of the most basic courses of catalá – but also for the same teacher. Approval of the decree of centres and visual arts spaces to configure the public network of centres and visual arts spaces in Catalonia, as instruments, obviously, of coordination and cooperation. We don't have any new masses either. Establishment of mechanisms for the struggle against the precariousness of professionals of culture, as well as professional and entrepreneurs under the figure of false autonomies. Well, Covid's management made it even more manifesto. The plan of government is previous, but obviously one of the real problems for which it does for the cultural sector is still, sadly – and it has posed, I repeat, in evidence during the Covid – the situation of precariousness, intermittentness, on a good part of the workers of the world of culture. In the third place, Pla stratègique de l'audiovisual 2017-2020, which was to be the driving force behind the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, and, in concrete terms, TV3. Well, we're running out of 20, so, we're running out of strategics, we think there's a lot of things that haven't come forward, and I repeat, we're running out of strategics, and we haven't seen Strategics 21-24, 21-25. Fourthly, the reform of the Film Law to adapt it to the European Court judgment. That's why Councilman Santi Vila spoke about it last year. Well, that's a topic we're still on. In five places, incompliment repeated by the Government of the resolutions of the Parliament on cultural matters, and in reference not only, that also, in order to make front and to deal with the effects of the Covid in the cultural sectors, but also to other political issues, let us say, more comprehensively, as, for example, the incompliment of good part of the resolution of March 19, presented for my parliamentary group, on the Arxius system of Catalonia, and which was approved with broad agreement, with broad consensus. He managed the epidemic. We, Counselor, and you know it, have been at your side, not only proposing measures, but also talking to you, which I thank, and the Secretary General, to give answers to specific questions and problems of collection that are not reflected in the decrees on the convocation of aid and subsidies. Measures to help the sector. Many of the decrees have been amended from the previous ones. The 47 modified the 38, which once modified the 32... So there was a very erratic and little coordinated action. And also insufficient measures that have not reached all sectors, all professionals and workers in the world of culture. I'm just setting an example from the later Committee on Culture. The call, and they tell us, that's what, independent theater companies, right? "Home, you hold in the same bag independent theater companies, which are small, often single-family, respect professional theater companies. Home, maybe it would be worth segmenting, right? The restrictions imposed on the sector, on the other hand, we believe, we are convinced, have not been accompanied by support measures in parallel, and also in the descalation, with measures of descalation to return to a certain normality, from our point of view, have been erratic and little consensus with the sector. And neither, and with this end, have structural policies been approached, that perhaps it is the part that interests me most of my intervention, that we have not already spoken on some occasions, but that I believe that in this later Ple it is important to put them to manifest by, in some way, commanding the next legislature, the next parliament and the next government, that they have a lot present. Financing. What do you say? We agree. We've been pushing him for a long time, and I'd say years. It is true that an agreement has been made to the Parliament's Committee on Culture now, but this is a political agreement by parliamentary groups – made unanimously, of course – and I have no doubt of the will to apply it on your part, I have no doubt about it. Now, what about the government's joint? Frankly, we have not seen any gesture, in this sense, on the part of the economic vice president. The status of the artist: precariousness, intermitency, labor contracts outside the special regime of artists, etc. I, therefore, need convenient collection, working conditions, etc. It is also important to move forward in the mesenatge and cultural sponsorships, in the framework of statutory competitions, obviously, but we have not talked much about this either, there has been much talk about it, but it has progressed very little, to say the least. And finally, the binomial culture and education. The whole subject of artistic and cultural teachings and the need to fit them in with the Catalonian Education Law to education, to compulsory education, but not only, also to non-compulsory and higher artistic education, in which you know perfectly well that we have important reps. And you'll answer me, I'm not convinced, with the things you've done, you'd just miss it. Although the premise, it's true, it's very migrating, it's doing things, of course, and I recognize that some of the decisions made these past two months are on the right line. I'm not looking for the rings to say that, Counselor, but I'm also telling him to be late – and it's not his fault. I would like to think, in any case, that they are not tictic movements or electoral movements. You'll also tell me that you've declared yourself to be a very essential culture, all right. Now, the question is, what difference is there between the day before the declaration of culture as essential and the debt? There's no way. What it is to develop it, what it is, really, through decree or the formula that follows, to arbitrate the mechanisms for which it stands to the realization of what it means, and, therefore, what measures are taken to declare culture as essential. And you'll also tell me, I'm not convinced, that the interdepartmental table was set up last week, at a time of discount, and you'll also be told – and not just us, but even people in the sector – that in the interdepartmental table there was a lack of education, precisely, to address the issue that I mentioned to you a couple of minutes ago. Let us hope that this table will not be used as a pretext for delaying reforms, but rather for pushing them forward with the competition of the cultural sector and parliamentary groups. The cultural sector, it will advise, is demoralized, tired, depressed and, in many cases, outraged by the government's lack of leadership in cultural matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.97.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Culture Counsellor, Mrs Ángels Ponsa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.98.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Congressman Bruguera, certainly, this has not been a standard legislature for various reasons, which we will not entertain now in order to be able, therefore, to speak with all the content of culture. I have been able to live it from a variety of times, and, precisely, today a hundred days ago, a hundred days ago, as the Councillor of Culture..., a task that I have undertaken with the commitment to work intensively for the defense and promotion of culture in our country. At the time of making balance I would like to begin by focusing on the way we have worked, and that marked the actions of this department, of this council, from its very beginning with Constellera Borrás in the front, and it was an alliance policy, huh? A way of hearing the leadership and impulse of culture characterized by close contact with the various organisations of the cultural sector, and also by continuous interactions with the territory. A way of working that has been vital to share the needs of the sector and to deal effectively with the problems. The pandemic, as you know, has filled the sector's historical structural shortcomings, and in this second instance we have tried to resolve with a quick and consensual response to the professionals of culture. Since the Department of Culture, we have established a plan of shock, which you know, and which you know, in order to face these consequences, and which from September until now has been of 51,200,000_euros. I believe that this has been a strong increase in the pressure in the Department of Culture. What are they meant to do? They have been designed to help cover the costs of business structures and entities in the sector by cancelling activities, have also been earmarked for direct assistance in the form of social benefits to cultural workers, in a _second call extended to much more collectivities. They have also been to make up for the limitations of 50_per_cent, and why professionals can work. As you also know, the Hundred of Culture Spaces responsible for prestige these spaces and giving security to the citizenry in both directions has been created. And an extraordinary contribution has also been made to extend the gratuity of the basic Catalan level courses, they have adapted technologically to be offered online to the cent_per_cent. At the same time, and perhaps very much above, not in detail, has been a sham to give support to the cultural sector. Beyond the economic issue, there have also been various communication campaigns, from an institutional campaign that these days you can see in the public spaces– « More culture–, a campaign also in conjunction with the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, respective campaigns of each of the respective organizations of the cultural sector, supported by the Department of Culture, and, finally, we have tried, therefore, that this serves to promote cultural consumption another time. Also, at the same time, we have begun to address the historical structural deficiencies – to which you refer – we have laid the foundations for a future law of culture, through culture declared to be very essential on 22 September. We want this law to be a law that shields all these deficiencies in the cultural sector. We have also laid the groundwork for improving the working conditions of cultural workers in two ways. On one side, the Cens d'Artistes, who knows that it's been operating since... today, we've made a scene, and that's the basis of the artist's future statue. And here, as not all the competitions we have, I also trust your help because who really has the competitions at state level can help us. And we have also created this interdepartmental table, which is true that there are some shortcomings, as you said, in the case of education; so we have already rectified it, but it was not easy to put it on the way and we went against it, and we preferred to start rather than leave it for the future. As you also made reference, this very week, this very day, I think I remember, the Committee on Culture approved for a broad consensus this will, I would say the majority, to arrive at 2_per_cent in four years in the financing of culture. I really appreciate it. We have a sponsorship law that you also had to unscrew. And, perhaps, to make a quick and hard balance that can't be done in two minutes, but very quickly, I would say that, at the level of actions, therefore, the 18th year was the departure of the cultural community, which was a great project, which was under the leadership of Constellera Borràs. This coordination body has served us to push a lot of work groups and be able to work them territorially in a very consensual way. We have also expanded and developed the Public System of Educational and Musical Equipment, and here there is all the accessibility you make reference to, which, if it suits you, then I can facilitate all the information, because we have advanced a lot. We have also done so with the country's Visual Arts Equipment System, which we have already organized and configured. And here too the accessibility part is very important. We've pushed the pulse plate of the circus, of the dance. They know we've made a national circus production, which has just been released these days in the city of Figueres. The Pla de museus, which also pulls forward. The plan... we're in the process of editing the Pla d'arxius, which you asked for, and document management. This very week I was meeting with the Association of Archives. We have also pushed the direction and a new project for Santa Monica, which will resolve very, very much. At the language level, therefore, there has also been an important effort at doubling and subtitling. Linguistic pairs have increased, a technical visual infrastructure has been created for catalá and a digital linguistic data bank. To libraries, therefore, we have also increased investments and doubled the assumption in reading activities. We have incorporated new Arabic terminology into the Termcat and the sign language and multitude of programs as well, for which it does in the field of letters. And in the field of music, and at the international level too, we have been able to support the programming of Catalan artists and productions in the international markets of most relevance, giving support also to the participation of popular culture through the DiFolk or Smithsonian itself. We also see the vitality of the Llull Network to give everything that the digital impulse is to Catalan culture. We have launched the programme « Music and exile, has also increased the name of translations in Catalan language. And coming in already, perhaps, more than in the balance, which would be very thorough, and as we say with two minutes we don't have time, at the back of the future, in titular mode: culture will also involve innovation and organizational creativity to solve great structural issues that we have pending. This symbiosis between technology and culture is giving great fruits, with alliances, with joy. We have just introduced the program we want to be one of the next generation, these European programs, which is the world of audiovisual, digital culture in Catalonia and Catalonia as the engine of audiovisual innovation and video games in southern Europe. We have made it in alliance with joints as well as different government departments. We presented him to Terrassa this week, with the Hospital Assembly, the Terrassa Assembly, the Department of Culture and the Department of Enterprise. Also, in this very sense, we are working on a program – "Culture and Greeting" – with the University of Vic and the Polytechnic University and the ICS, the Catalan Institute of Health. The Culture and Education program, which is one of the pending assignments that we have, so, it's one... We were planning on starting it in the guise, the pandemic had to change everything, and as you know, we had to restructure the programs and the new programs didn't start, but there was already, in the presupposition, and, therefore, it was a program that I wanted to pull forward, as was clear in the presuppositionary exercise. To finish, Mr. Bruguera, because I will not have time to extend myself, I take advantage to wish you that you can enjoy this new stage. To thank him that at this most recent stage as in the past, that I was a Member of this Parliament, I always had his collaboration, and that's what I really appreciate. Many thanks to all of you, Members of Parliament, as well as the Committee on Culture, for having worked folded and absolved goals that we have set for ourselves. And I want to make it clear that I'm happy that at the last point of the last plenary of this legislature, it's about culture. Surely, this is a good omen that culture must guide us in this complicated future that we now have. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.99.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, the deputy has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.100.0	Thank you again, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, I will not use this later return to replicate the counsel, but I will take advantage of it, if I may, to take advantage of all of you. And maybe I'll do it in a little orthodox way. First of all, I want to say that at the Escala, at Empordà, well near Empúries, where democracy was practiced for the first time in our country more than two thousand years ago, there are, you have a friend for everything you want. And, second of all, and maybe I'm one more hair, I'd like to claim the figure of a deputy of this chamber, who was during the Republic and the Civil War. On July 19, 36, in the first hours of the Faixist revolt, the deputy for Lleida Amadeu Colldeforns died near the Drassanes because of an ambush launched by the revolts. The following October 1st, the Ple of Parliament agreed to place a plaque at the session hall in his memory. This plaque, however, did not materialize until the turn of eighty years, on July 19, 2016. The plaque is placed up there, at the entrance of the guest gallery. Well, I think there's another person who would deserve some kind of recognition from our Parliament, I mean Martí Rouret and Callol. Despite being empordanès, his political career began in Móra d'Ebre, where he moved the 26th to practice as a master. Funded by the Socialist Federal Republican Federation of the Ribera d'Ebre, which will integrate into the Republican Left in the founding congress of this party celebrated at the Foment Republicà de Sants on March 31st. He was a member of the Provisional Generality on the 31st, and the 32nd elected deputy for Tarragona. He was the first secretary of the Bureau chaired by Lluís Companies. He was 30 years old. He would also be the spokesman and head of his parliamentary group and the Secretary General of Esquerra between 35 and 37. At the beginning of the Civil War, President Company appointed him councillor of Sanitat, general commissioner of the Public Order of Catalonia and, especially, undersecretaries of the Presidency of the Generality on the September 36. A structure created and designed for him and that no one else has exercised with hindsight. I mean, it was the right hand of Lluís Companies. After three years of exile to France, 42–42 – from Marseilles to Mexico, where his residence is fixed and his political and cultural task continues. He was one of the promoters of the election of Josep Tarradellas as President of the Generality, who celebrated the election to the Embassy of the Spanish Republic of Mexico on August 5, 54. And now I'm explaining the two reasons for which I think it would be worth some kind of recognition. The midday of the 23rd generation of 39, while the Italian aviation bombarded its home town, the Scale, and which caused fifteen fatal victims, are home to one of the affected, the president of the Parliament, Josep Irla, and the vice president, Antoni Rovira and Virgili, who were together with Rouret at the Majestic Hotel, will command them two delicate and risky missions. For a band, and ahead of the imminent entrance of the Francos to Barcelona, immediately organize a plan for the evacuation of the dozen of deputies who still remained in the city. On the next morning, passing through La Conreria towards Girona, the most Perxés, of Agullana, and exile. And, on the other hand, they should be instructed to safeguard Parliament's archive, especially of those documents which, if passed into the hands of the Francos, could be the pretext for political repression. For this mission, to say the least, count on the help of a servant of this house, Manel Gabarró. Part of this archive was located in the year 2000 at the Perxés d'Agullana and is now back in the Parliament archive. I sincerely believe that they are sufficient grounds to remember, in some way, the task due to Rouret in those delicate and serious moments. Surely, the person whom Rouret knew best was Artur Bladed and Unravel, who I wrote of him: « In my eyes, Martí Rouret was a typical empordanès. It's like, worried, federal, nice, slowing down and with a tramuntana touch. Master of minions, lover of sport and theater, of tertulia and popular song, also gave a letter. I ended up reading a sentence that Rouret wrote just before he died in Mexico, and that I think is absolutely current: "If to unite Catalans he would raise flags of irresponsibility, poor Catalonia! It was a pleasure, an honor, to be part of this chamber. Deputies and deputies, president, good holidays and a better year 2021 full of changes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.101.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate for today, we'll do a half-hour recess and then come back to vote on everything that's left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.102.0	Well, deputies, deputies, som-hi. And make sure everyone's safe around here. [[Long break.]] Well, that's it, then. We'll start voting. [[Law proposal on forced disappearance of minors in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[202-00061/12]] And we are starting with the opinion of the Commission of Justice on the proposed law on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia. Before they start voting, I guess today's eighty-nine Members and Members have delegated their vote, twenty-three Members and Members have joined the telematic vote and twenty-three Members will vote face-to-face. Vote, first of all, technical exams 1 to 15. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on the letter c of paragraph 2 of Article 1. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to four, with no abstentions. And now we vote on paragraph 2 of Article 2. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 5 of Article 2. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 8 of Article 3. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 3 of Article 5. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 1 of Article 7. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on the additional third quater provision. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the preamble now. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. And we now vote on the rest of the text of the Commission's opinion. The vote begins. The bill on the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia was unanimously approved: 135 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Economic facilitation law project (continuation)]] [[200-00010/12]] Let us now vote on the next item on the agenda, which is the opinion of the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge on the Economic Facilitation Bill. They attend to separate voting petitions, we will vote on a first package with items 1, 16, 62, 104, 112, 137, 187 and 193. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.103.0	If you indicate the voting number, maybe..., if everyone has the same guide, maybe we'll skip reading time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.104.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] I mean, vote number 67 corresponds to the... yeah, I can go on like this from then on, so? [[Pause.]] Okay. Fantastic. We are voting, therefore, on vote 67. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 29 votes in favour, 66 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 40 abstentions. We are now voting on the 68th vote. The vote begins. This slogan was rejected by 41 votes in favour, 69 against – corresponding to 46 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 25 abstentions. We're voting now at 69, voting 69. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 48 votes in favour, 70 against – corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 70. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 70 against – corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics –, no abstention. We are voting on vote 71 now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 106 against– corresponding to 83 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 72. The vote begins. It was rejected by 38 votes to 61, with 36 abstentions. We're voting at 73 now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 70 against– corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 53 abstentions. We're voting at 74 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to four, with eight abstentions. We're voting now at 75. The vote begins. It has been approved by 87 votes in favour – 64 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics –, 4 against, 44 abstentions. We're voting now at 76. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 69, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now at 77. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 78. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 66 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 57 abstentions. We're voting for 79. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 66 – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting now at 80. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes to 70, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 81. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 48 votes in favour, 70 against – corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 82. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 102 against– corresponding to 79 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 4 abstentions. I repeat: 29 in favour, 102 against, 4 abstentions. Vote now at 83. The vote begins. It was adopted by 74 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 84. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 85. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 123 against, no abstentions. We're voting now at 86. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 87 against, 44 abstentions. We're voting at 87 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes to 66, with 53 abstentions. We're voting at 88 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 70, with 36 abstentions. We're voting for 89. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to four, with eight abstentions. We're voting now at 90. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 95 against – corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 36 abstentions. Vote now for 91. The vote begins. It was rejected by 52 votes to 66, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 92. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 70 against, 61 abstentions. Vote now for 93. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes to 102, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 94. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now at 95. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 95 against – corresponding to 72 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics –, no abstention. We're voting now at 96. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 95, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 97. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 78 against—correspondents to 55 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics, 17 abstentions. We're voting at 98 now. The vote begins. It rejected itself by 65 votes in favour, 66 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting 99 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to 8, with 4 abstentions. We're voting 100 now. The vote begins. Approved unanimously: 134 votes in favour, against, abstentions. Vote 101. The vote begins. It was adopted by 106 votes to four, with 25 abstentions. We're voting now at 102. The vote begins. It was adopted by 106 votes to four, with 25 abstentions. Vote for 103. The vote begins. It was adopted by 114 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. We're voting at 104 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 106 votes in favour – corresponding to 83 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics –, 21 against, 8 abstentions. We're voting now at 105. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes in favour – corresponding to 91 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics –, 4 against, 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 106. The vote begins. It was adopted by 114 votes to four, with 17 abstentions. And we're voting now at 107. The vote begins. It was adopted by 106 votes to 21, with 8 abstentions. We're voting 108 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 78 votes to 21, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now at 109. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to four, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 110. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with 8 abstentions. Vote now for 111. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to four, with eight abstentions. And now we're voting at 112. The vote begins. It was adopted by 123 votes to four, with eight abstentions. The 113th. Vote. It was adopted by 119 votes to four, with eight abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Economic Facilitation Bill has been approved by 106 votes in favour– corresponding to 83 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 12 against, 17 abstentions. Well, now, as the report points out, we'll read the papers, we won't get rid of that time, because it's in the record, otherwise it wouldn't be in the record. [[Urban Economic Promotion Areas Law Project (cont'd)]] [[200-00017/12]] Put your vote on... [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Yes; say'm, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.105.0	Good afternoon. It was to announce the withdrawal of Emena 41, which is voting 124.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.106.0	All right, item 41, which corresponds to vote 124. Okay? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's vote on the opinion on the Urban Economic Promotion Law Project. And we did, first of all, with the items 2, 4, 10, 22, 33, 35, 39, 78, 91, 93 and 95. The vote begins. They have been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 106 against– corresponding to 83 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 17 abstentions. We now vote on the items 6, 13, 14, 16, 49, 67 and 81. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 123 against, no abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 12. The vote begins. It was rejected by 25 votes to 102, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 23. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 106, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 27. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 78, with 17 abstentions. We vote for Emena 28. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes to 102, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on the items 29, 106, 109, 122, 148 and 149. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes in favour, 70 against, 36 abstentions. We now vote on the 30, 31, 146 and 147. The vote begins. They were rejected by 33 votes to 66, with 36 abstentions. We're voting for 37 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 102, with 4 abstentions. Now I'd have to vote for 41, which is the one that Mrs Romero has withdrawn. So let's move to exams 43, 61, 97, 123, 129, 131, 132 and 144. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 95, with no abstentions. We're voting for 52. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 66, with 40 abstentions. And now we're voting 54 and 60. The vote begins. They were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against, 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 57 and 64. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 70 against, 53 abstentions. We're voting at 63 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 82, with 17 abstentions. We're voting now at 72. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 87 against, 36 abstentions. Vote for 73. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 83 against, 40 abstentions. We're voting now at 75. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 66 – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – with no abstentions. We are voting now for the 76th and 151th exams. The vote begins. They were rejected by 65 votes to 70, with no abstentions. And now we are voting on items 77 and 84. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes in favour, 102 against, 4 abstentions. Vote now at 83. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 106, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 85. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 29 votes in favour, 66 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 40 abstentions. We're voting at 87 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 70, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on the 94, 100, 103, 108 and 111. The vote begins. They were rejected by 33 votes to 102, with no abstentions. We're voting for 115 now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 70 against, 53 abstentions. And now at 117. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 99, with no abstentions. We now vote on the 119th and 127th exams. The vote begins. They were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 66 against, 44 abstentions. We're voting now at 124. The vote begins. It was rejected by 36 votes to 87, with 12 abstentions. We're voting now at 125. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 87 against, 44 abstentions. And we're voting now at 130. The vote begins. It was rejected by 52 votes to 83, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 133. The vote begins. It was rejected by 48 votes to 87, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 146. The vote begins. Sorry, 136 – it was ballot 146, sorry. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 78 against, 53 abstentions. And we're voting now at 150. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 8 votes in favour, 74 against, 53 abstentions. And now we're voting on 152. The vote begins. It was rejected by 4 votes to 106, with 25 abstentions. And now we're voting on the technical papers. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on Rule 6.1c of the opinion. The vote begins. It was approved by 102 votes to 21, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on Article 16 of the opinion. The vote begins. It was approved by 65 votes to 22, with 48 abstentions. We now vote on Article 17 of the opinion. The vote begins. It was approved by 102 votes to 21, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on Article 18 of the opinion. The vote begins. It was approved by 102 votes to 21, with 12 abstentions. We vote for the additional provision first. The vote begins. It was adopted by 110 votes to 21, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on the final disposition first. The vote begins. It was adopted by 102 votes to 21, with 12 abstentions. And we are now voting on the rest of the text of the committee's opinion. The vote begins. The Urban Economic Promotion Areas Law Project was approved by 119 votes in favour – correspondents to 96 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics –, 12 against, 4 abstentions. Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.107.0	I'm sorry, President. To make us aware of a mistake in voting. In Article 6.1.c we have abstained. Our vote should have been against.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.108.0	Okay. It shall be marked and shall be recorded in the record. Thank you. [[Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination (continuation)]] [[200-00006/12]] Let's go to the next point to vote, which is the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Families on the Bill for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination. We begin by voting 1, 2, 107, 110, 113, 114, 115, 116, 146, 441, 454 and 456. Yeah? [[Pause.]] Equal treatment and non-discrimination. Yeah? Are they located? [[Pause.]] So let's vote. The vote begins. They were rejected by 45 votes to 73, with 17 abstentions. We now vote on the 14th and 15th exams. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 95 against, 36 abstentions. We vote for Emena 31. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 114 against, 17 abstentions. And now we're voting 50 and 261. The vote begins. They were rejected by 48 votes in favour, 70 against, 17 abstentions. We now vote on the 86, 135, 136, 138 and 187. The vote begins. They were rejected by 65 votes to 70, with no abstentions. We now vote on items 97, 120, 133, 181, 240, 241, 242, 244, 245, 246, 251 and 308. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 70 against, 25 abstentions. And we are voting now for items 111, 112, 302, 312, 349 and 447. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 95 against. We are now voting on the 125, 132, 153, 154, 158 and 163. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 97 against, 8 abstentions. And now we're voting 144 and 255. The vote begins. They were rejected by 29 votes to 106, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the 147, 359 and 457 items. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes to 78, with no abstentions. We're voting for the 159. The vote begins. It was rejected by 48 votes to 87, with no abstentions. We now vote on the 178 and 213 items. The vote begins. They were rejected by 8 votes in favour, 106 against, 21 abstentions. We vote for Emena 186. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes to 70, with no abstentions. We're voting for the 191. The vote begins. It was rejected by 4 votes to 106, with 25 abstentions. Let's vote for the 192, 202, 421. The vote begins. They were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 106 against and 17 abstentions. Let's vote now on the 222 and 264 exams. The vote begins. They were rejected by 48 votes in favour, 70 against, 17 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 228. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 17 votes in favour, 70 against, 48 abstentions. And now we're voting for Emena 247. The vote begins. It was rejected by four votes in favour, 70 against, 61 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 258. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 123 against, no abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 259. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 123 against, 8 abstentions. We now vote on the 265 and 411 items. The vote begins. They were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 110 against, with no abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 289. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 106, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now at 290. The vote begins. It was rejected by 21 votes to 70, with 44 abstentions. We're voting for Emena 316 now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 70 against, 53 abstentions. And now to 323. The vote begins. It was rejected by 33 votes to 102, with no abstentions. We're voting for Emena 358 now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 74, with no abstentions. And now we're voting for the 420. The vote begins. It was rejected by 48 votes to 87, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 10, 10.2 bis. a and 10.6; article 11, section 4a; article 11, section 4d; article 13; article 14, section 2d; article 14, section 3; article 16, section 1b; article 16, section 2b; article 16, section 4d; article 16, section 4d; article 16, section 7; article 18, section 2a; article 18b, sections 4 and 5; article 19, section 3; article 20a; article 28, section 28.1b and 28.2a; articles 29, 29a, 29b, 36b, 36c; articles 30, 31, 31a; title V, "Regime of infringements and sanctions"; articles 33, 34, 35, 36, 36a, 36b, 36a, title V, "Regime of infringements and sanctions"; additional provision, section 5; additional provision 5; additional provision 5; The vote begins. They were approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. I now vote on Article 1, paragraph 3; Article 11, paragraph 3; Article 14, paragraph 2, letters and g; Article 26, paragraph 4, and Article 27. The vote begins. They were approved by 131 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We now vote on Article 10, apart from 2a, letter a. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on Article 10, paragraph 6. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on Rule 28, set aside one third. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on Article 28, paragraph 2, letter a. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on Article 32 of Title Five, "Regime of infringements and sanctions. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We now vote on the additional provision second bis. The vote begins. It was adopted by 95 votes to 40, with no abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Bill for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination has been approved by 135 votes in favour, no against, no abstention; that is, unanimously. [[Greetings.]] Finally, however, there is a need to vote on the technical aspects of legal language 1, 2, 3 and 4. The vote begins. They have also been approved unanimously: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence (continuation)]] [[202-00067/12]] Let us now vote on the opinion on the proposed law amending Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence. Let's start with exams 3, 10, 27, 28, 50, 59, 82 and 131. The vote begins. They were rejected by 21 votes to 114, with no abstentions. We now vote on items 11, 41, 55, 71, 73, 83, 87, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 102, 106, 115, 119, 122, 126, 133, 143, 155 and 163. The vote begins. They were rejected by four votes in favour, 131 against, with no abstentions. We are now voting on items 19, 29, 33, 64, 136, 137, 138 and 139. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes to 95, with no abstentions. And now we're voting on Exhibits 36 and 39, letter f. The vote begins. They were rejected by 54 votes to 81, with no abstentions. And now we're voting on Exhibits 37, 60 and 105. The vote begins. They were rejected by 17 votes in favour, 114 against, 4 abstentions. We now vote on the 56th and 57th exams. The vote begins. They were rejected by 17 votes in favour, 118 against, with no abstentions. We now vote on the 56th and 57th exams. Forgive me, 58 and 161; we have already voted for them, the others – 58 and 161. The vote begins. They were rejected by 57 votes to 78, with no abstentions. We're voting for the 159. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 114 against, 17 abstentions. We are now voting on the new deletion of a preamble paragraph. The vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to four, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 1. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 2, letter k. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 3, letter d. The vote begins. It was approved by 130 votes to five, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 4, apart from the third, letter to. The vote begins. It was approved by 118 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 4, apart from the fourth, letter f. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on Article 4, apart from the fourth, letter h. The vote begins. It was approved by 118 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 4, apart from the fourth, letter J. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 17, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on Article 4, separate if- article 4, separate if. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. And now we vote on Article 4, set aside. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. And now we vote on Article 6, letter g. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. We are now voting on Article 6, letter u. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 7. The vote begins. It was approved by 99 votes to 36 with 36 abstentions. I repeat: 99 votes in favour, against, 36 abstentions. We now vote on Article 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. We vote on Article 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on Rule 12. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 13, paragraph 8. The vote begins. It was approved by 118 votes to 17, with no abstentions. We now vote on Rule 15. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on Article 16. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on Rule 23. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 21, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 25, paragraph 1. The vote begins. It was approved by 114 votes to 17, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on Article 25, except for paragraph 1, in fact. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting for the preamble in paragraph 8 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 78 votes in favour, 56 against – corresponding to 33 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – with no abstentions. We are now voting on the legal language issues. The vote begins. They were unanimously approved: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting for the preamble now. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to 40. We shall now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The proposed law amending Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male violence was unanimously approved: 135 votes in favour, against, and abstentions. Congratulations. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the industrial crisis (continuation)]] [[302-00273/12]] Let's now vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into the industrial crisis. And we do it with the first point. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, 66 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – with no abstentions. We're voting now for the 2 bis point. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We're voting point four now. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point nine now. The vote begins. It was approved by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We're voting point 10 now. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 66, with no abstentions. We're voting point 11. The vote begins. It was approved by 99 votes to 36 with 36 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They have been approved unanimously: 135 votes in favour, against, abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into territorial equity in rural and urban areas (continuation)]] [[302-00274/12]] Let us now vote on the motion following the question to the Government on territorial equity in rural and urban areas. Let's vote, first place, point 4. The vote begins. It was approved by 99 votes to 36 with 36 abstentions. We're voting for point 7.a now. The vote begins. It was approved by 91 votes to 4, with 40 abstentions. And now we vote on points 7.b and 7.g. The vote begins. They were approved by 95 votes to 36, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 7.c. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 66 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting now for point 7.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 7. The vote begins. It was rejected by 14 votes in favour, 121 against, with no abstentions. And we're voting now on point 7.f. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes to 21, with 101 abstentions. We're voting now at 7 a.m. and at 8 p.m., taken from the letters of g and g. The vote begins. They were approved by 99 votes in favour, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now for point 8, letters of g and g. The vote begins. It was rejected by 33 votes to 66, with 36 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 9. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes to 66, with no abstentions. We are now voting on the points and letters of the motion that have not been voted on until now. The vote begins. They voted unanimously: 135 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. [[Proposal for a resolution on the marc programme of the audiovisual public system (continuation)]] [[250-01619/12]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution on the framework programme of the public audiovisual system, and we have done so in a single vote on the whole text. The vote begins. It was approved by 77 votes in favour – correspondents to 54 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 58 against, no abstention. [[Proposal for a resolution on amnesty (continuation)]] [[250-01627/12]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution on amnesty. And we do, in keeping with the voting petitions separate, first place, from point 1. The vote begins. This point was approved by 78 votes to 57, with no abstentions. We are voting now on the rest of the points of this motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved by 70 votes to 57, with 8 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the violation of children's rights in the Catalan education system (continuation)]] [[302-00275/12]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the violation of children's fundamental rights in the Catalan education system. Let's start by voting point number two. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 78, with no abstentions. And we're voting point three now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 78, with 17 abstentions. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 65 votes to 70, with no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the points of this young man now. The vote begins. They were rejected by 40 votes in favour, 95 against, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impulse of the economy (continuation)]] [[302-00277/12]] We are now voting for the motion following the government's inquiry into the impulse of the economy. And we did it, in the first place, with points 1.d, 1.e, 1.f and 1.g. The vote begins. These points were approved unanimously: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting now at 1.h. The vote begins. It was approved by 57 votes to one, with 77 abstentions. We're voting point one now. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 12, with 12 abstentions. And we're voting now at 1.j. The vote begins. It was approved by 123 votes to 4, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now on point 1.k. The vote begins. It was approved by 110 votes to 21, with 4 abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Members, I can hear the emotion for some results, but I would ask you for a little concentration, which is not easy. This point was approved, on the 2nd, by 123 votes in favour, 8 against, 4 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. It was approved by 131 votes to 4, with no abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. It was approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 66 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. They were approved by 131 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. [[Discussion on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[255-00019/12]] Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions following the debate on structural, systemic and institutionalised corruption in Catalonia. We vote, first of all, on the proposal for resolution No. 1 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. The vote begins. It was adopted by 95 votes to four, with 36 abstentions. We're voting now for number 2, with the inclusive error correction. The vote begins. It was rejected by 12 votes in favour, 85 against and 38 abstentions– 12 votes in favour, 85 against and 38 abstentions, because in the "there must be no 21 telematics and in abstention, 2. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 87 against, 36 abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We now vote on number 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 36. We're voting now at 2. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes in favour..., [[Funnel veils]] , pardoned, approved, is correct, by 29 votes in favour, 2 against – corresponding to 2 telematic votes – and 104 abstentions – that are 83 delegates and face-to-face and 21 telematics. We're voting number three now with the error correction. The vote begins. It was adopted by 134 votes to none, with 1 abstention. We now vote on number 1 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Exactly, the fourth of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, excuse me. This Wednesday's vote begins. It was adopted by 131 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. We are now voting on Proposal No 1 of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 40 votes in favour, 66 against – corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics – 29 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 95, with no abstentions. And we're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 78, with no abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with 8 abstentions. And now we are voting on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, and we are voting on number 1, in the first place. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 66, with no abstentions. Let's vote number two. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 36. We're voting now at 3. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 65 votes in favour, 66 against– corresponding to 43 delegates and face-to-face, 23 telematics–, 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 4. The vote begins. It was rejected by 61 votes to 66, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on the number 1 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. The vote begins. It was adopted by 33 votes to 92. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 29 votes to 66, with 40 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 35, with 35 abstentions. We are voting now on the fourth of Catalonia in Comú Pueder. The vote begins. It was adopted by 74 votes to 57, with 4 abstentions. Yes, sir, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.109.0	Yes, in order to correct an error in the motion for a resolution No 4 on the Single European Act on corruption of the People's Party, we voted in favour of it and we should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-18-6805.110.0	All right, it is clear that this will be recorded in a timely manner. All right, let's vote on the motion for resolution No. 1 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 82 votes to 53, with no abstentions. We now vote on number 1, presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We are now voting on number 2, which is also presented jointly for these two parliamentary groups. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 36, with 99 votes against and 36 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 66 votes to 44, with 25 abstentions. Let's vote four. The vote begins. It was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. We now vote on number 2 of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. It was adopted by 99 votes to 36. And now we vote on number 1 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It has been approved by 84 votes in favour – 82 delegates and face-to-face, 2 telematics –, 17 against, 34 abstentions. And let us now vote on paragraph 2 of the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 57, with 10 abstentions. There are no more points to vote. But before I finish, allow me, on behalf of the Bureau, and I understand that in the name of the chamber joint, thank the efforts of the workers and the workers of the Parliament. We have to do this all the time, but especially in Covid's time, and especially after five days. Not only to the workers of the chamber, whom we greatly appreciate their efforts, but also to the communication media that they have endured until the last minute of this Ple. To all of you, as long as it's the last Plea of the year, and they're joining Nadal's feasts, to wish them a lot of good feasts, which pass them, to the extent possible, to their own, and, in any case, to the side of the city council of this country. And, as it is the end of the legislature, to those who do not repeat, in all color, I wish them that, on a personal level, they go as far as possible to life; to those who repeat, that they take advantage of the opportunity to improve this country. And, in any case, tell them that it has been an honor to represent this institution, the conjunction of the city of Catalonia, that it has been an honour to represent all of you. Thank you very much. The session's up. [[Greetings.]]
