ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.1.0	Well, good morning. Members, Members, let's start this plenary session. In the first place, the reminders you ask you to answer orally in the Ple are included in the folder. In accordance with Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Further, and in compliment to what the Parliament of Catalonia's Motion 111/XII establishes, on rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of migrants' gathering, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, from the beginning of 2020 until now, there have been 981 deaths and disappearances in the Mediterranean. Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer. [[Ask the Government about the removal of the Francoist monument of Tortosa (Baix Ebre)]] [[310-00439/12]] I, in the first place, ask a question about the withdrawal of the Francoist monument of Tortosa the deputy Irene Fornós, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà. When you want, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. « To the fighters who found glory in the battle of the Ebro. This sentence still today can be read in the pillar where the monument that Franco built is raised. The most important and bloody battle of the history of our country and where there will die thirty thousand biquettes of the Baby's Gate. "A monument that reminds future generations of the heroism of that act of the liberation crusade that, personally led by the very general, was key to the great victory achieved by the national armies and premise of peace that, under the leadership of the leader, our people enjoy today. The sentences and quotes like these, we could say and find many more. Phrases and declarations of intent that made clear why this monument was made: for an exaltation of the Francoism, the military dictatorship and the defeat of democracy. Twenty-five years after that barbarism, the Franco dictatorship decided that it was necessary to make clear who the winners were, and the same dictator came to Tortosa to inaugurate the monument of shame. A monument that, for more than forty years, has wanted to perpetuate the fascism, and which others have claimed we accept and normalize, letting the fascism become part of our landscape. And that can't be allowed. Faixism, it can't be maintained or reinterpreted. And to keep still, today, raised to the middle of the Hebrew river, a full monument of stature below the symbolism of the Feixist, is an insult to the democracy and memory of all those people who died there. And now, out of the dignity of those who have preceded us in the struggle of our freedom, let him fall. It has cost forty-five years, and there have been many crossings, but finally we can celebrate the announcement and the project of the removal of the Francoist monument, which will typically last the Department of Justice of the Government of the Generality. A work that others did not want to do, perpetuating for years that the ignominious scrap of the Francoist monument, as the esteemed and enyorat Manuel Pérez Bonfill said, is still being raised. She will advise, many years ago that every day I must pass before this monument and today, as the deputy of the Lands of the Ebro to the Parliament of Catalonia, comes from a town of Tortosa and granddaughter of a young combatant of the Biberó Gate, I cannot be, on behalf of myself and of all the people we have fought for for years to end the fexism, to thank her for her commitment and determination in making it possible. And to complete that which establishes the Law of Democratic Memory and to which, from the Republican Left...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.3.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.4.0	...we compromised ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.5.0	... MP, your time is up. To answer the question, you have the word justicia's counselor, Mrs. Ester Capella. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.6.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. The tracks of the franchise are still very obvious in Catalonia; it is obvious, as you said, when we pass through Tortosa and see the middle of the river Ebra the monument to the fallen. The monument of the Battle of the Ebre is Francoist symbolism, without doubt. A rovellada symbolology, damaged, without any maintenance, but that there resists, right, despite the passage of time. The permanence of this monument what do you tell us? What does it prove? So the weakening of Spanish democracy, the deepening of the frenzy of Francoism, still present today, and who should have removed it is who is not the owner, that is the Spanish government, and after thirteen years, therefore, there is; and there are some who did not want to do the work that touched them. It is not interpretable – you said it – because the one looking for the monument was to determine a normality, the normality of the franchise. Therefore, we cannot continue to maintain this right. He'll fall. It's not a statement of intent: I'm sure he'll fall, we'll make him fall. The Generalitat has already set up the defined countdown. Define to remove a symbol that it does is to exalt the dictatorship, the Francoism and that, moreover, humiliates the victims of the Francoism. Especially, those thirty-thousand soldiers – Republican soldiers – who are going to lose their lives or disappear to the Battle of the Ebre. Of this in eighty-two years, from the end of the battle; forty-five of the dictator's death. We will remove the monument by responsibility – we have the responsibility – by dignity and to repair the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of culture and the professionals of this area in Catalonia]] [[310-00434/12]] The next question is about the situation of culture and the professionals of this area in Catalonia. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Hector Amello. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.8.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the crisis of the Covid threatens to take ahead companies and hundreds of cultural workers. Why have they been unable in eight months to deploy a shock plan to ensure the future of the sector and workers? And what is failing so that the few measures they have promoted do not serve to minimize the sector's labour and economic damage?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.9.0	To answer the question, you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Angels Ponsa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.10.0	Thank you, President. Congressman... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... press, talk to the sector? Because I say that to these heights I seem to be disconnected from reality, honestly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.11.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.12.0	Almost forty-thousand companies dedicated to cultural activities, about 105,000 workers. The gross value added is about 4,500_million_euro per year. This is the magnitude of the figures in the cultural sector that you are putting at risk in Catalonia for your improvisation and mismanagement. Hundreds of workers and cultural enterprises have been without income and with minimum income since May. They have not been able to work, or they have done so with so many restrictions. Your economy and your lives are on the edge. Behind every figure, counselor, there's a life, there's a dream, there's a hope. Musicians, actresses, artists, dancers, technicians, directors..., but also the industry and cultural enterprises see with concern how their profession and their livelihoods, in many cases fragile and intermittent, are at risk for the bad policies of their government's support. Aids are too late, in short, they are insufficient. And many workers, today, are still unable to access any help or benefit, and what is worse, they are still unable to work. His mismanagement is truncating dreams and truncating hopes. The cultural sector made a great effort to ensure that culture was safe and to comply with all preventive measures, to avoid contagion, but you closed it. Stop squandering Catalan money: 6,6_million_of_euros for a Pisito for Cultural Action of the Valencià Country; millionaire grants to help Platforma per la Llengua spy on our children or to try to eliminate Spanish as a vehicle language in Spain; more than 85,000_euros per year to keep his friend, the flight from justice, Lluís Puig, and so many other ways they know and have to waste the money of all Catalans. Look, I'm asking you to waste less on chiringuitos and amiguetos and more investment in training, more investment in talent, more investment in creation, in the future and in culture. Hundreds of companies and thousands of jobs are at stake, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.13.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.14.0	Look, I've only been here for three months, but with these mantras that you repeat day yes, day too, I think that for a lot of trying to explain it, I won't get lucky, but I'll try another time, huh? See, look, since the first moment, we've been working with the sector; with the whole sector. There is none, today in the cultural sector – and I say it with this strength – that I can say that it has not been attended by the Department of Culture. For myself, for the whole team, that we are enjoined to work there and work there intensely. We have raised more than €42 million in three months. In all the lines, say, jobs..., huh? , with the bases working with the sector. With cultural enterprises, of course, but also with cultural workers. We have, at this time, more than 2,800 requests for the last call, attestations, eh? And they're still open, because they're lines that they're still open to work and be able to respond to every demand in the sector. Please, ask them, talk to the sector and listen to them, because I don't think they do. If you talked to the sector, I wouldn't make this speech, I'm telling you honestly. And not just that. We're working for this moment, because it's a time of crisis and we need to be on its side, but we're working with a little longer look. Because the cultural sector lacks this, too. It needs to have a strategy a little bit longer and longer to get out of precariousness where it is, at work level. In other sectors of work there would be permission, this precariousness of work. And I'm not tired of saying that. We already have to form the interdepartmental table, which is the last slip we need to be able to share with other departments of the Generality – with Enterprise, with Economy, with the same Department of Culture –..., to fill all the needs that the sector has. Not just the economics. The cultural sector does not want to be subsidized, it wants to work. And this is where we are. And here's where the Department of Culture is and here's where the country's government is. He asks you, please, to inform him well and that what you say is..., correspond to reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Plac nic of works and services in Catalonia]] [[310-00433/12]] The next question is about the Plac único d'obres y servici de Catalunya. And the formula, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.16.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, the local administration is now in front of one of the major reptes it has in its history. We are all well aware that the situation is very complicated, and I can say, with knowledge of the cause, that we have seven of the administrations that we have been most at the side of our lives and before this very complicated situation. Now, we're all clear that we need resources and funding to get better out of this situation. Still, from the local world I want to thank the coordination and the periodic contact between the government and the local world that has been dyed and that is already always, and that has been accentuated especially at this time of the pandemic. And besides, apart from this coordination and this joint work, the government has generated from its possibilities, resources and funding to help us. Now, is that all we want? Everything we need? So I'm sure we don't; but we also need to be aware of the possibilities we have with the country. We all know that Catalonia does not answer the money that comes close to it. It must be said that the Government of Catalonia has already mobilised more than EUR 300 million to deal with the consequences caused by the second wave of the Covid-19, while the Government of the PSOE and Podemos has not earmarked a single euro. And I'd like to remind you of the bad decision on the part of the Spanish State, when it tried to keep the money saved from all our gatherings. For all this, we share the need of the local world, but we also value the efforts of the Generality at this time. That is why, last week, after eight years, she approved the final resolution of PUOSC 2020-2024, one of the main support instruments for the local world and a basic tool for gatherings to boost their economy. Sense doubt, great news, fruit of your government's commitment to the local world. That's why, Counselor, we'd like to know the abst of this PUOSC in the country's immediate vicinity. Have you managed to give the answer to all the different territorial realities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the speaker of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó, has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.18.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MPs Erra... Effectively, the final approval of the PUOSC resolution for this period 2020-2024 is great news, and you, as the mayor, know it very well. And it is a great news, certainly, because PUOSC directly affects the local world, giving response to the needs of the inhabitants of all the municipalities of Catalonia. In concrete terms, we will complete with this PUOSC a total of 2,131 joint actions. And we'll do it, remember, with two lines of inversions. For a band, a general line, which allows us to reach 947 assemblies of Catalonia, 41 district councils and 65 decentralized municipal entities. And on the other hand, that specific line for those municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants, to enhance territorial balance. I, in this case, will reach 736 meetings, 1 district council and 64 EMDs. And I want to point out and make use of the work that local administrations are developing, because it is the administrations that are on the front line; they are those who know the needs of citizens and citizens of our country; they are those who directly support citizens and citizens and can distribute all those resources in the most effective way. And the government of Catalonia, certainly – and you said it – has a municipalist vocation, we have said it many times. And in these two years and a half of the legislature, we have dedicated more than EUR 1,000 million to the local world: EUR 250 million in this call by PUOSC; EUR 378 million for the Local Cooperation Fund; EUR 120 million for this extraordinary cooperation fund that we have just announced; EUR 45 million for the Roadmap and for the Territorial Dynamization Programme; EUR 175 million for the European Foundations; EUR 20 million for natural disasters, or financing is resolved from the Aran Valley. Therefore, yes, from the Government of Catalonia we work territorial balance because we are a country, we are a living country, we are a country that works and wants to work from the proximity, strengthening the local world, which is the first entry of citizens to the Administration. Thank you very much, disputed Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about tax measures in times of pandemic]] [[310-00438/12]] The next question is about the tax measures in pandemic times and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republic to the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.20.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...The Vanguard...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.21.0	Hope's that the microphone doesn't work. Press the button. Now. Now, now, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.22.0	Yes, thank you, President. Vice-President, yesterday La Vanguardia reported that the Catalan Tax Agency has located seventy-three fictitious tax resident changes with low-tax claims, such as Andorra, Switzerland or Madrid. Last week it donated similar data to the Valencian Tax Agency, while the Spanish agency informs that the returns of capital to the State are disproportionately concentrated in Madrid, where the property tax is not paid. It's like we're in front of a full-time tax dump, manual. A dump that wants to deny everything said that Madrid is more recapta than Catalonia. And how do you not have to recapitulate any more? If they're declared in Madrid, you don't make them. Tax dumping, in effect, only counts to whom it is practiced. How to cheat it out counted only to the cheat. That's why they're surprised that Mrs. Ayuso is still here, or that there is, here in Catalonia, who says that we have to do the same. In fact, this is the side effect of these dumping strategies, which can end up flushing everyone in a downward spiral if no rules are established to avoid it. In the European Union, the loss caused by the fiscal dumping of some states is estimated to be between 100 and 150,000_million euros a year. In the Spanish State, the impact of Madrid's dumping exceeds 2,000_million losses for the conjunction of the autonomous communities and a direct gain for the capital of about 300_million a year. Obviously, the dumping in case the sun does not explain the growth in Madrid of the last decades. In fact, since 1975, the economic pes de Madrid in the conjunction of the State has increased by 40_per_cent. Therefore, yes: we are ahead of a black drilling effect of Madrid, an effect that in terms of relation we have only been able to resist the Basque Country and Catalonia. And it is that in Madrid the dumping is the cherry of the pasty, which means being the capital kilometre zero of all infrastructures and theirs of the State. Conclusion: who more privileges have, above all, emptied the butxaques of others. That is why I want to know, Mr. Vice President, what is your government's understanding of tax dumping, as they think they are doing to capture the tax regression process that is taking on the welfare state. Certainly, very recently we have known the creation by the European Commission of the European Fiscal Observers. Perhaps it would not be wrong to pose in his knowledge the case of Madrid. Do you have it coming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.23.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, certainly the tax dumping that is produced by the Community of Madrid benefits, basically, from the capitalist effect of the localization in that territory of high returns from the concentration of political and financial power. And from here, therefore, apply a policy of tax cuts that are a real unfair competition to the rest of the territories. This Parliament has approved on repeated occasions, especially in the last debates we had during the month of July, to denounce this situation of fiscal dumping. And doing so is absolutely necessary, precisely to protect our fiscal sovereignty, the share of fiscal sovereignty that we do have. In the same way that, in the framework of the European Union, the governments of the different states have taken action to defend their fiscal sovereignty before the unfair competition, for example, which they had brought to term countries like Luxembourg, so we must do the same. We have to do absolutely the same. Therefore, we do not ask the Community of Madrid not to be asked on the part of the different states of the European Union to countries like Luxembourg. We do not demand that the workers of the Community of Madrid pay more, but that the rich who reside fiscally in Madrid and, obviously – we see as these inspections that we have made of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, it is indeed a fiscal residence and many times fictional – what we want is that the rich in Madrid pay and pay what they send to break this cycle of vices in which we are situated. And, obviously, at the end of this strategy of fiscal dumping there is the economic project of Spanish nationalism, that of José María Aznar, with those delusions of greatness, of being the capital not only of the State but the economic capital of all the Americas Llatina, and it is a project that consists, basically, in buiding the peripheries to make great the economic policy of the center linked to the power of the State. We are betting on a new tax model, with a welfare state that needs precisely these redistributive elements to protect the returns of work and to reach all those agreements so that you make them capital, which are much easier to move, actually paying on the corresponding, which is where resources are generated; in this case, which pays, too, to Catalonia. And we'll keep doing it with whatever inspections you need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.25.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the Government's claim to push taxes to Madrid and the need to reduce them to Catalonia.]] [[317-00248/12]] The following asks the Vice-President the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Alejandro Fernández. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.26.0	Thank you, President. Why, instead of lowering taxes here in Catalonia, do they intend to raise taxes in Madrid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.27.0	To answer the question you have the word Vice President of the Government, Mr Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.28.0	What we want is for the rich to pay what they correspond to, to Catalonia, to Madrid and to Luxembourg. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.29.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.30.0	Thank you, President. The decadence of the separatist process has resulted in absolutely unimaginable scenarios. Instead of exercising self-government here, in order to lower taxes here, Sánchez will be asked to go up in Madrid. It is impossible to imagine a more humiliating scenario for any Catalan, regardless of his ideology. You move a resigned surrender. They no longer want Catalonia to lead anything. They just settle for screwing up in Madrid. I, as a Catalan, do not resent myself. I still think that, well governed, our land can lead innovation, economy and freedom throughout Spain, because we have already been able to do so in the past. But I hope that we will lead Spain with our own merits. Are you not aware of the image they are moving from an envious, swangy, complexed, and rondinaire Catalonia? A few days ago Spanish Television rescued, reponed, the wonderful national shotgun, of the great Berlanga. In it an incomparable Sazatornil composed a vision undoubtedly caricaturesque, parody of the Catalan entrepreneur. Well, even so the character of Sazatornil had a lot more dignity than you, because he was going to Madrid to sell his automatic doorkeepers, he wasn't going to hurt others there. Today even Berlanga would have trouble defining the spurt they are turning Catalonia into. Precisely because of this, in front of its complexes, we represent open Catalonia, optimistic and cheerful – yes, cheerful – because that, however insistent they are, they will never take it away from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, again the deputy president of the government. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.32.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, in order to defend freedom, we must have... we must have the tools, and the tools are the tools, too, of a state. That is why we need the freedom of this country and to be able to decide, obviously, how we manage the resources generated by this country. Because this country generates sufficient resources – sufficient resources – so that the welfare state is well equipped and so that it can also provide economic growth policies. Anyway, you've made reference to a movie, and I don't think you've seen it well. You didn't see it well, because you, with this Spanish nationalist view, took this film and watched... who caricatured? The Catalan entrepreneur. But this film explains that the Catalan businessman who caricaturizes goes to a hunt in Madrid because the stamps of the elevators he manufactures have more market space or not depending on what a ministry decides, and he will convince the minister. Therefore, what clearly explains this film is how the economy of the BOE works, that since the government of the People's Party you have been, precisely, also, therefore, favoring that it goes on..., as the network of interests associated with political power allows to configure that the market is in one way or another. I already know that you have this privilege of going designating from the BOE and from the proximity of being able to finance it do not want to lose it, but we are willing to break it, because to break it also means to give the necessary tools to the Catalan productive economy. We do not want an economic model based on the economy of the BOE, in hunting with the minister to see if you can place, therefore, what are the buttons of the elevator, but what we want is precisely that it is that it is promoting innovation, productive capacity, and this also means a clear public compromise with the industrial policy of this country, with the commercial policy of this country, with the agri-food sectors of this country. In short, the productive and non-economic economy of BOE. So, Mr. Alejandro Fernández, what I recommend to you is that since if you want to talk about Berlanga in this Parliament, you look at the films, you pass their veil from the eyes of your Spanish nationalism and, above all, what you do, because if you do not still who will end up caricaturized in this Parliament it is you. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.33.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the meeting with economic and social agents to deal with the consequences of the restrictions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the necessary agreement for the compensation of employers and workers]] [[317-00250/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the group promoting Catalonia En Comú Puem, the deputy Jessica Albiach. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.34.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Mr Aragonès, on November 13th the Government met with economic and social agents to see how it compensated, which urgent response was given to entrepreneurs, workers and workers before restrictions for the health crisis and, moreover, it agreed that this should be done within the framework of the social dialogue and concertation. Fifteen days later, I mean, the past selling Pimec, Foment, UGT, Workers' Commissions had to send them another card before the absolute silence. And today I still have no proposal. And I ask him why. Why at a time when they call more country agreements than ever their government, the government of Junts per Catalunya and d'Esquerra Republicana, therefore, does not listen? Why don't you get out of your bottle and, above all, why give the bait to economic and social agents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the word Vice President of the Government, Mr. Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.36.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, these months have been a very intense one, from the point of view of the social dialogue, also of the need to articulate economic measures, therefore, with the highest speed. With the social workers we met and made clear what was, therefore, the screen of the opening plan, they are aware that in the next few months we will have to take action because, despite the fact that the health pandemic can be relieved, the economic and social pandemic will continue to be there with great strength, and therefore it will be necessary to continue to establish support measures. In this sense, we proposed the creation of a working group with the social agents who will be on the march on their own days, and, therefore, with the will to be able to articulate these measures, some of which we have already begun to do. For example, in the Autonomous Work Council, with those who are working very intensively, and I think that actually in a very satisfactory way what the new scheme of help to the autonomes of this country will be. Therefore, we are talking and, obviously, our will would be to have all the tools to be able to decide, in this framework of the social dialogue, all the economic policy of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.37.0	Thank you, Vice President. To answer that question, you've got the Member again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.38.0	Yes, Mr. Aragones, they are not talking, if they are talking to employers and unions, they will not send them to you a letter claiming, precisely, this dialog, because I understand that both employers and unions have a lot of work to do as to send out cards without having a reason. So they're not talking enough. After the letter that you have sent them, after this question and, possibly, after the questions that come after the day that we have today, you will end up talking, but as always, you arrive late and poorly, flushing the few; we do not only have a government that is broken, we do not only have a government that is contradicted day, day too – today we saw the last episode between the Vergés Councillor and the Budó Councillor on the second phase of the descalada – we do not only have a government that centrifuges constantly responsibility, but also that we have a government that is closed in itself and that is winged. And this can't be the path, and it can't be for a lot of reasons. First, because we are living in a pandemic and have a brutal economic and social crisis. Second, because you are a functioning government, do not forget. And third, because what we decide now will not only affect our present, it will also determine the next two years for Catalonia, as at least. More than that, the social dialogue has shown itself to be the best tool, the best protection network before this pandemic. We've seen it in the ERTOs, we've seen it in the vital minimum ingredient, we've seen it in the guarantee of basic sub-administrations. And I say to them: I no longer have much hope in this government, because it has been more a breakdown than anything else, but I don't think it's asking the moon to ask you to come out of your bubble, to talk, to talk, to talk, and, above all, to come up with great agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's another word from the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.40.0	This government has always been in permanent dialogue, not only with social workers, but also, for example, with local administrations, with the re-opening plan, with sectors in which, therefore, its activity is affected. We have also been, therefore, on a dial, as we can have this own diverging, for electoral election scenes and what is the relationship with a pandemic situation that obviously forces us to guarantee the right to vote and to be prepared to do so. And that's why this sale will have this meeting so that we can share the government's work in this area. You have commented on what..., says the contradictions of this government. Well, what do you want me to say? Coalition governments, and you know it, are not easy. And it's not a matter of taking responsibility from above, but it's just that everyone has to look at their home before criticizing the others. And you know, precisely, that coalition governments must have balance, too. And you know it for the government of the state, you know it for the government of their territories, in which you participate, don't you? Therefore, the will of dialogue is there, there is everything; we will have to continue doing so, especially in our own months, before the situation of difficulty. And count that this government will be as it has been now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.41.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generalitat, about the meeting with the President of the Valencian Generalitat and the lack of a political, institutional and social agreement for the economic recovery of Catalonia]] [[317-00247/12]] The next question to the Vice-President of the Government is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.42.0	Thank you, President. In the same line that Jessica Albiach has started, but perhaps opening a little more camp. Yesterday we had the opportunity to visit the President of the Valencian Community, of the Valencian Generalitat, who among other things explained to us the Valencian Strategy for Recovery, based on three pillars: a political agreement, a social agreement and an agreement with all the institutions of Valencia. This led them to define a shared strategy that everyone can know and arrange. Catalonia didn't do it, that's not it. And I would appreciate it if you could explain to us who are the reasons why we in Catalonia could not conclude a political, institutional and social agreement for recovery.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.44.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, yesterday I had the opportunity to meet with the President of the Valencian Generality, with Ximo Puig. It was a very interesting and profitable meeting, in which we were able to see the political differences and the logical differences in forming part of each respective political projects differentiated from the ideological point of view, but also the shared interests. And in this sense, we were able to intersperse what are the respective recovery plans. And you know perfectly well that the Government of Catalonia in July – the Valencian Generalitat did so, so, at the end of August, the principles of September – we approved an economic and social recovery plan precisely with various axes: the first, the economy for life; the second, the whole strategy of digitisation, energy transition, and enhancing the knowledge society, which allows us to today, therefore, to hold clearly..., to be strategically aligned with what is the European Union's recovery and resilience mechanism and to be precisely well prepared to present the maximum of projects for the European Fund, projects that must be unbeatable and obviously between which projects can also be shared with the Valencian Generalitat and also to be well prepared to present the maximum of projects for the European Fund, projects that must be unbeatable and clearly between those that can also be shared with the Valencian Generalitat and also to be well prepared to present the maximum of projects for the European Fund, projects that must be clearly between those projects that can be shared with the Valencianal Generalitat and also to form an eco-conceptional government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.45.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.46.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, I would like to congratulate you on having a meeting with the President of the Valencian General and making an effort to reach out to you. But you seem to me that you did not understand my whole question, because the great difference between the valence recovery plan and its is that valence has been granted and its not. And that was the foundation of my question. Mirin, you, even to propose a program contract for the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, make a signed proposal for members of government groups, without any effort to share it with others. They have found themselves in a need for the economic and social world because they do not consider that they are using the tools of the dialogue to rescue the sectors affected by the pandemic. They're finding themselves... for example, you've already announced the diver's meeting, but it's more than a month ago that we're calling for the power to work together to prepare the electoral system. So, Vice-President, I don't think it's surprising that I'm telling you that your government doesn't stand out because of the will of dialogue and agreement with others, or with other political forces, or with economic and social forces. And this is what we see in issues as relevant as the corporate program contract or with the demands that economic and social agents make them, on a dial, that are not attested to. Therefore, perfect, have a recovery program; but, in change, suspended in the dialog, because this has not been agreed with anyone but the members of the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.47.0	Thank you, Congressman. The Vice President of the Government has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.48.0	Mr. Iceta, our reactivation plan, which you have been able to know, which you have been able to share, which is precisely in line with the agreement of bases that we signed with employers and trade unions at the end of July, in which the axes are exactly the same, so it is an agreement in line with what the social dialogue is..., it is a social dialogue that must be deepened, obviously; that we want to deepen it always, but in any case – in any case – this reactivation plan has been more granted and more dialogue than the plans that the Spanish Government has submitted, which have not been granted. Now we hope that they will continue, the recovery plans, which have not been granted in this case as at least with the Government of Catalonia. Now it looks like there might be a chance that that's the way it is. Therefore, our intention is to follow this path of cooperation, to follow this path of dialogue within the country. But in order to dialogue and reach agreement, you must have volunteered on both sides, and therefore it will also depend on you, which abandons a clearly electoral position and also wants to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.49.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asks the Vice President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the measures of the Government to combat the fatigue provoked by the pandemic of Covid-19]] [[317-00251/12]] The following question to the Vice-President of the Government is formulated, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, by Mr Sergi Sabrià. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.50.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies, advisors, vice president. We are already carrying new pandemics, and we have spoken a lot in this Chamber about the health crisis, the collapse of hospitals, the risks of resurgence, restrictions, economics, life and aid to the most affected sectors, the economic crisis and the labour crisis. Because it was about protecting salvation and seeing them in front of the economy and saving the economy to live a dignified life. That's the way it can only be. Epidemiological indicators of the past few days show that the measures, very harsh and very aggressive for many people, have caused the infection. It's hard and hard to fold, but it helps us win. Data also shows that the schools work well. Let us say again for all those apocalyptic visions of a few months ago: the schools work well. And our obligation is and will always be to guarantee the right to education. Thank you to all you've made it possible. As I said before, it's hard and very hard to fold, but it helps us. And surely these are examples of the most visible wound of the Covid-19. But there are no others, too, Vice President: the emotional wound caused by the pandemic may be more silent, but it is also. It's a fatigue that gets worse as the pandemic widens; an exhaustion and emotional wear and tear that knocks us all down. For the contagion, the economic uncertainty of whether or not we can open the blind, give up life as we have understood it so far, re-create in a second wave when we have just begun to suffer the buffets of the first... They are so much negated, that, effectively, they lead to a shared fatigue that we have not known until now. And, indeed, Vice President, we have to bend this crow, we have to save the economy as much as we can, and we have to guarantee fundamental rights as education. But it is also urgent to put mental health and emotional healing at the centre of the struggle against this pandemic. And, of course, this will also be hard and hard, and long, but moving forward in this sense will also help us a lot. Vice President, how does the government work to combat pandemic fatigue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.52.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. MP, we certainly carry a mass of pandemics, and obviously the emotional salvation of a very important part of the citizenry is touched. They can certainly talk about an emotional crisis. And I think that too often, in this Parliament, but in the context of the political debate, it seems that talking about the emotions that people feel is a symptom of fever or weakness. And I don't think we need to talk, exactly. Emotions are part of the day-to-day life. The emotional salvation and mental salvation of all citizens, also of all of us, is also part of the indicators, of which we must count, of which it is important for the well-being and quality of life of people. This year, completely abnormal, it's logical that a lot of people have reason to, that they have felt anxious, that they feel sun, that many young people have lost their illusion or are feeling unmotivated; young people, people who see how difficult they have been in their business... And precisely, what we have to do is take care of each other, take care of each other. And, therefore, we have to start talking also without the beginnings of mental salvation, of emotional well-being and of how the pandemic is affecting the feelings of everything, because at the end it is about life and it is also about not only rebuilding life, rebuilding public services, but also rebuilding society's joint venture, focusing on the reconstruction of life in the first place. So until now we have been following two key elements at the time of taking decisions in relation to the pandemic: health measures and the need to protect the economy and social life. We need to set up a third vertex, which is emotional salvation, mental salvation as well. And that doesn't have to be just a statement of intent, it has to be translated into concrete policies. The Department of Health is doing a job in this sense and also in which it will be the impulse of a new plan of action of mental salvation to the country, which must have a structural role in the Catalan system of salvation, which allows us to age also for the emotional well-being of the people's conjunction; we take care of ourselves as the country, which the country is taken care of, which we take care of among all of us. And let me finish by making a recognizance of all the mental health professionals, the psychology teams, who during these months of pandemic are doing a huge job and also for the work they will do in their own months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.53.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[He asked the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, about the Government's action in favour of the sectors affected by the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic.]] [[317-00249/12]] The next question to the Vice-President is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.54.0	Mr Vice-President, there is only one month left for you to make some profit for all Catalans before the end of the legislature. Could a single affected sector be cited as saving from the devastating effects of the Covid crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.55.0	To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.56.0	This government has been working since the first day – since the first day – to protect the citizenry. From day one. We have faced a second wave that has thrown down all the detection mechanisms that existed in the most advanced countries in Europe. And we have reversed the second wave faster, taking decisive measures, that even during..., assuming that they were unpopular, but we are going to a reduction, in terms of the health impacts of the Covid in this second wave..., we are going, therefore, three times faster, for example, than to the Community of Madrid, in reduction of contagion, in reduction of ICUs, in reduction of hospital pressure. I therefore believe that the measures have proved effective. And we have accompanied us with support measures, support measures for the sectors, which are mobilizing more than €300 million, with an important effort from all departments to accelerate to the maximum what is the processing of these aids. Therefore, we are on the side of the city. We've been taking these steps because what's most important is saving lives. No lives, no lives, that a life's loss is what can't be recovered, there's no business that's worth it. Therefore, it is fundamental – phonental – to have protected lives and now also continue to protect that people can continue to gain their lives.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.57.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.58.0	It is desolating that another week you present yourself with a blank service sheet, Mr Aragonès. We would have liked you to have had the help here..., you would have given the help you had in Castile and León or the sensitivity that Madrid had with the opening of the hotel and the restoration. But here the legislature will end as it began: with the government parties sprinkled on corruption issues. And you, Mr Aragonès, look elsewhere with Mr Vendrell's scandal, which I assume Mr Iceta does not find so scandalous in terms of the reaction he had in the past full. But that we see logically, because he wants to make a tripartite with you and with Podemos. And the truth, Mr. Iceta, that they are not jealous, they are not jealous because you have preferred to go with Esquerra rather than with Ciutadans, in the same way that Mr. Sánchez has chosen Mr. Rufián rather than Mrs. Arrimadas. But I do not lose hope that the Socialists will think about it better in order to guarantee, after the elections, a change for the Catalans. Junts per Catalunya is also given the same treatment as Mrs Borràs's trapicheos, and they even reward her by making the candidate. That is, we have at the head of the management of the pandemic parties that hide corruption, such as Esquerra Republicana, or that even reward it, such as Junts per Catalunya, or that don't matter to them, as to the commons or the socialists, and meanwhile the Catalans are helpless. But we already tell you that, in the face of the opposition that asks to pass from the Government of disobedience to the Government of the tripartite – which is like passing from fire to fire – we, Ciutadans, are going to offer a moderate and sensible alternative that will help lift the heads of those who suffer from the crisis and ensure a coexistence in Catalonia, where no Catalan, think as you think, speak the language that speaks or feels as you feel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.59.0	To answer again, the Deputy President of the Government has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.60.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we've already listened to your election campaign. Anyway, I'll tell you about the feta work, and the feta work in the past month. EUR 100-twenty-five million in the area of social emergence, including support for guaranteed income from citizenship, extension of aid to food banks and Creu Roja; EUR 4.59 million to subsidise the fight against social inequality; approval of a deduction from the IRPF for taxpayers who receive less than EUR 22,000 per year and who have been affected by an ERTO; extraordinary funds for the local authorities of EUR 120_million, 20 of which will remain until the end of the year; assistance in the field of hospitality, trade and restoration, a first line of 40 extended by 50 more, enhancement of the 100_percent of the tax on capital transfers to be paid by the host sector; assistance in the field of extra-currency, trade and restoration, a first line of 40 extended by the profession of 50 more, improvement of the 100_percent of the tax on capital transfers to be paid by the host sector; assistance in the overseas territories of the sector, abroad; assistance in the field of agriculture, abroad; And all this – all this – in the past month and especially in the past days. Therefore, it has been done and will continue to be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.61.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on residential resources]] [[310-00429/12]] The next question is about the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on residential resources and the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Raúl Moreno. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Consellera Vergés. The July of Encany presented the Contingency Plan for late residences, with the aim of preparing them for this second day. If the impact of the Covid on our residential system is not the same as it was on the first wave – also because of the effort made by the sector, very important – it is true that the virus is still having, therefore, a..., hitting another time the residents of our country. The plan collected two aspects on which I want to focus my questions. For a band, they proposed an increase of 1,800 hierogulturists and auxiliary personnel, a reinforcement of staff that we have not seen and that they have not noticed the residences. Moreover, the staff continue to feel one of the great problems, as we are seeing these days, for example, so to the residence of Tremp, to Lleida, or in the last weeks to the residence of Falset, to put some examples of many others. For another band, the pla also talked about booking seats in case of rebounds. Recently we have seen family members of interns of the Mossèn Homs Residence, of Terrassa, or of the Falguera Residence, of Sant Feliu del Llobregat, are manifested against the announcement of his advice to convert them into centers of reference Covid, to transfer them positive residents from other residences to these, we live with interns without. Counselor, you know perfectly well the risks of contagion among the great people when you live in a residence. Not because of the contact between the residents, but because of the necessary contact between the professionals who work between plants and who have to leave and enter daily, and who, as I said, is insufficient staff to attend to this new situation. For another band, barring internally negatios and positius implies an increase of restrictions on family visits, even in rooms of residents negatios and risks, many risks. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, we believe that it would be better to transfer these positive residents to beds of mid-term care centres or to the seven hundred seats in support spaces indicated on the same platform as we already had during the first wave. But to sweep, much guaranteed that the sectorization and the internal circuits are in place, is a risk that we can avoid having residential alternatives as we do. In summary, Mrs Vergés, we want to know where are the 1,800 support professionals that you promised and if you continue to go forward with the intentions of making the residence of Sant Feliu del Llobrega a space of reference Covid, as it already happens in other Catalan residences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.63.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, you have the word Salut's advisor, Mrs. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.64.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... So yes, as you say, we know perfectly well the risks of this virus when it enters the residencies and that is why we have put the focus, as a priority in the management of this epidemic, in the residencies, because it is a priority for people vulnerable to the virus. In the first place – you said well –, prevention; then, protection from these people and, lastly, cure. And you have confirmed these three priorities that we have: prevention, obviously training of professionals, essential in the sector, in preventive and hygienic measures, in PPE, also in protocols – in the knowledge of protocols – in the use of oxygen, in the way PCRs – also to help the teams that are moving – in the communication with families. Necessary. Professionals we need and professionals we've been training in different sessions with hundreds of people. Also cracks, prevent cracks. The last week, more than 240,000 tests on residents and professionals of all residences and with the impulse of the figure of hygiene technology as a necessary figure to age for these preventive measures. And that with the greatest anticipation, as you have said, in this contingency plan, we explained that each residence had to make its own and that, obviously, it has allowed us, in this second instance, to have a situation, fortunately, very different than in the first. More control. To put oxygen in beds, in residential places; the relationship with primary care, where we have started a program of support to residents of 37_million euros, with nurses and family doctors – family doctors and midwives – and, obviously, also with residences that we call buffers. And that this was coordinated; it has to work in the network. When a resident has a problem – because we know that they can arise from it, as has happened for example to Tremp – we need support from other places. And they needed planning, and so we did, as well as the whole sector. This is working, it's allowing us to sectorize and things don't get worse. I, lastly, cure. Family. Take into account family members and the right of residents. Anticipation and prioritization.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Ask the Government about the business recovery time after the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00432/12]] The next question is about the timing of business recovery after the Covid-19 pandemic and the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Munell. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.66.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Tremosa, Vice-President, Members, Deputies, Councillor Vergés, good morning to everyone. We have hope, advisor Tremosa and the rest of the company, that in a few months it could recover the social and economic situation of the country, especially if above, therefore, this expected vaccine or even the generalization of reliable and cheap texts. So it could reduce this very high health care and mortality of this Covid-19, and we're sure that if we keep the economy, we can also maintain the sustainability of health care and social welfare. Because the reflected economy, we have to keep it alive, and at these moments hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses are making hands and arms to survive in a situation that is taking them, they are taking them into debt. Still, they continue to push forward for their future and for the future of the country's joint and their workers as well. At this delicate moment we have to put on the table measures that also save the life of businesses. The Generality, our Government, does not have the sovereign financing capacity nor does it have the sovereign debt capacity. In fact, he lost it in 2012 with the liquidity fund of the Gouvernement de Montoro. Currently, in Catalonia we only receive 6_percent of the taxes and they are collected, the rest, for the Spanish State. This Spanish government, which is the most progressive in history, but which charges all the taxes of the physical and legal persons of Catalonia, which access the foundation of the European temporary support instrument to mitigate the risks of unemployment, the Mede fund, the European Central Bank fund, up to 62_percent of the Spanish State's bond issues. This government of Pedro Sánchez, however, does not inject liquidity into the economy, only injects debt to companies through the ICO. Even the International Monetary Fund or the European Central Bank criticized this. Counsellor Tremosa, the Government of Catalonia – and now Mr. Aragones has also told us – is making hands and hands to inject liquidity into businesses, entities and society. But will you have enough? These European foundations that come, are they all central to Madrid? When Catalonia opts for European funds it takes 30_percent of the funds, but if it opts for the Spanish State..., that makes us doubt. In front of this scener every day more centralizer, what future has Catalonia, Catalan companies, in this horizon that sees us post-Covid-19? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.67.0	Congressman, thank you. To answer the question, has the word the Counsellor d'Empresa i Coneixement, the Lord Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.68.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Benvolgut mayor and deputy. Well, the slogan that we have now for the next month is to resist, because we have very hopeful news of cows coming from different companies that are already in final approval phase by the different agencies – European, state, also American –, and this is a scene that..., so good we can overcome this health pandemic, that today is an authentic economic and social pandemic, and also emotional, as the vice president explained earlier. So, as far as we can... the government of the generality is making hands and hands, actually. To our department, for example, with a budget of 290_million euros, this year it will be able to donate 250_million dollars in grants. Therefore, we have moved on to the ground, and here I would like to thank the Vice-President's cooperation in this regard, because we have actually made an effort to see, from all the generality's assumptions, what we can dedicate and therefore devote to tourism, trade, restoration, industry. And last week we had this agreement of these 13_millions that can cover two-hundred businesses in Catalonia's automobile, to try to endure these businesses. Industry is a very resilient sector. If you look at the 2008 crisis, which was financed, the countries that were best able to cope with it were those in central and northern Europe, where industry was very important. And in our home, today, the year 2020, this health and tourism crisis we have seen that industrial sectors are working very well. The chemist, the pharmacist, the agri-food man is a total of figures that can end the year feeling as good as the ones of the past year. The Port of Tarragona, for example, which remembered history in 2019, October 2020_has been better than October 2019 and, therefore, the president told me: « If the next two months are like the last two months, we will close the year better than the year passed. Therefore, everything we can do to strengthen and save businesses is very urgent and very important. And I end up with European foundations. European foundations are also a fantastic opportunity to inject capital to give new life to industrial conversion projects and it is a great luck for the European Central Bank to buy debt, different lines of credit open to the European Union and this project of European foundations that we hope will not be centralized and that will actually reach businesses, that can generate redundancy and multiplier effects on the economy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the evolution of complaints of male violence]] [[310-00430/12]] The next question is about the evolution of complaints of male violence and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Geli. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor Sàmper, deputies, deputies, good morning. According to the World Health Organization, which catalogues male-based violence as a global health problem of epidemic proportions, one of the twenty women in Europe has been raped. This means that 9 million women across Europe, according to current FRA data, have been raped by the European Union Agency on human rights. The masculinism kills every day, all the time and all the time. In Catalonia, eight women and one girl have been murdered this 2020. In five of the nine cases, the victim was clean, but he hadn't reported it, and here we're detecting one of the hard problems. I need to articulate better this network that allows the woman to report without being revictimized and that I am desperate for a suffocating situation. Just in these moments, precisely, we work because the Parliament of Catalonia can approve the reform of Law 5/2008, so as to update and detect all the tools that the perpetrator uses to exercise violence, which, in more than 50_percent of cases, enters in subtle and sibil·line form within the life of the woman through psychological violence. The law focuses on aspects such as prevention, but it also focuses on awareness, attention, recovery and repair; it also focuses on current legal concepts such as the intersection of oppression, sexual consent, secondary victimization, due diligence, institutional rapes or also digital rapes. These must be concepts that must be familiar with all those people, administrations and professionals who have direct contact with the victim. These days, in the March of November 25th, the International Day of the Elimination of Male Violence, the Department of Interior has submitted data and reports on the names of complaints made about the year in Catalonia. We would like to know, Counsellor Sàmper, and we would point to the beginning of the introduction in this very question, how the complaints are conveyed, what is the value in relation to the VAG, if they intend to do some urgent action because of the difficult situation that women suffer, which is also aggravated by the situation of the Covid, and what type of training they have the bones and security forces of Catalonia to address with total sensitivity and due diligence this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, you have the words of the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Sàmper. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.72.0	Thank you, President. MP, MP, as the MP used to say, where 8 women and a girl died a year ago. So, two more people than the year passed in the same period. It is clear, honourable Member, that the pandemic situation has led to an increase in the vulnerability of women victims of gender-based violence and their children. 10,567 complaints have been processed until October; therefore, a decrease of 4,8_per_cent respects the same period of the year 2019. There have been 10,717 criminal acts, in the measure that there are also complaints that they have more than one crime. And for what he's doing at 112, there's been a 41.6_per_cent decrease in scams to alert of gender-based violence situations. Therefore, the pandemic does not help, MP, it is obvious. Movement restrictions, home confinement, displacement restrictions have affected this decrease in reporting capacity. In Mossos, for example, during March and April there was a decrease of 34,15_per_cent in the filing of complaints. For what it does to the percentage, it is distributed in a 51_per_cent psychological rape, a 42 physical rape, and the rest are divided between cyberviolence and sexual rape, as you make reference. 4,282 men have been detained, and there has been, yes, a 25_per_cent decrease in the number of detainees between fourteen and seven years. For what makes new normality, one time we passed the pandemic, the first wave, June increased by 2.54_per_cent, July by 1.97 and August by 6.41_per_cent. For what it does at protection orders, 7,610 have been asked; also with a very significant decrease of 3,3_per_cent respect the year 2019. You refer to what value the VAG's Victim Care Group makes. Very positive; very positive, but still insufficient. It is obvious that we have seen that the legal resources, the laws that we have had both at state level and at català have not been enough to reduce this sacre that you also explained to the principle. And, therefore, from the GAV we still need to improve and expand our skills much more. But not just the GAV, the local police also do an incredible job, and even the whole local world, with registrars and even women's rape. So we're on the line, but it's got to get a lot better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the 159/XII motion's failure on the part of the Department of Territories and Sustainability for making the moratorium on new waste incineration projects]] [[310-00436/12]] The next question is about the 159/XII motion's failure on the part of the Department of Territories and Sustainability for what it does to the moratorium on our waste incineration projects. The formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, the deputy senyora Natalia Sánchez. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.74.0	Good morning, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Counsellor Damià Calvet, knows perfectly well that on March 5, 2020, this Parliament, the Ple of Parliament, approved with a vast majority a motion incorporating the need to apply an urgent moratorium on new waste incineration projects. Why is your department systematically incomplete with this resolution? We know that it is not a question that affects the department exclusively, but for what it does to the residue moratorium, it is especially paradigmatic how this Parliament wishes. Can you explain why?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.75.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.76.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, from the Government of the Generality and from the Department of Lands and Sustainability, we have been working and studying how we can last the Parliament's will from the very approval of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.77.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.78.0	Mr. Damià Calvet, as you must also know, last October 2nd, the parliamentary group..., the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, and a servant like the deputy, asked him to meet precisely to be able to speak and to know first-hand what was the state of the issue. So, we've made repeated requests to log in which is the status of the question. And the answer of his own department, with a report, is that the moratorium is not possible; with a report that is not only filled with errors for which he makes the data, to justify the unwillingness or the nullity of his department to make the case to the Parliament of Catalonia. There are not only falsehoods and flagrant errors in the data, but it is a report on the compliment of the motion which, for example, states that no moratoriums can be applied to projects that are not urbanistic, or other questions that they do justify the position of Councillor Damià Calvet, who already know perfectly well that it is contrary to this moratorium. One more time, we ask him not only to listen to the four parliamentary groups... Certainly, your own parliamentary group voted in favour of this moratorium, and you are working completely against it. Incineration and waste disposal cannot be part of our country's energy and climate challenges. We have said it many times, but not only has the CUP said it, but a majority have said it, I insist, of this Parliament. Fossil fuel cream and waste-derived fuel cream are a problem for health and are a problem for the emission of greenhouse gases. Mr. Calvet, we know that you have been very busy in other tasks that are not your tasks as a Country and Sustainability Advisor, but please do listen to the Parliament of Catalonia to face this emergence and apply a moratorium on new incineration projects, as you ask...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.79.0	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.80.0	...the Parliament and what it asks of society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.81.0	...speaker. Your time's up. [[Pause.]] To answer the word again the counselor. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.82.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The truth is that I thank him for all his intervention, because, ultimately, he was quite positive. Look, I want to explain to him what we've done since the department so we can compliment this Parliament's will. First, we consulted our legal advisor – the internal department – who already warned us that the possibility of launching a moratorium that does not refer to urban issues, therefore, was very complicated legally. We then consulted the central judicial office, and the central judicial office went to us. He pardoned the Legal Affairs Committee, first of all, which refused to pronounce itself, and then we consulted the central judicial office. And we went to the central judicial office with a double question: first, about the same moratorium, and then, about the future law of residue, since we are drafting a rule that could include, therefore, this hierarchical management of the residues that mark Europe, in which there has been energy and energy appreciation, certainly. And the report of the Legal Affairs Committee..., I was wrong again, from the central judicial office – from the central judicial office –, I say... – certainly, a report that was signed on November 27 and was delivered to us this day, and therefore it will be from then on that we can make this meeting that you asked for, and with the rest of the groups, we can also explain the content of this report –, saying that it cannot be done through a government agreement, it cannot be done through a decree, that the correct legal instrument would be a law and that we cannot make a law because there are no causes of urgency that justify it. So, a measurement bill, huh? And, therefore, what he asked of us is that we could make a specific law; a specific law would have a way, therefore, that would surely invalidate the very intention of the motion of the Parliament. And, therefore, we choose to go and include this debate on incineration in the waste law. I'm done. I note that there is a certain – let's say so – hypocrisy or, finally, aesthetic, aesthetic, aesthetic position, in this issue of waste incineration, because in Catalonia there are not four, of public incineration plants – Girona, Mataró, Barcelona and Tarragona – and all are managed by consortia, among others, so, together, or also local councils, in which there have been matches, there are governments of all political colors, and no mayor or mayor on demand that we women moratòries, but that they demand that what we are doing is modernizing these installations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.83.0	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.84.0	So we can discuss the law of residue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.85.0	The next question... [[Ask the Government about the signature of the sale of Hard Rock land to Vila-Seca and Salou (Tarragonès) before the end of the legislature]] [[310-00437/12]] ...is about the signature of the sale of Hard Rock land to Vila-seca and Salou before the end of the legislature. And the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Podemos, Mr David Cid. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.86.0	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Miri, from Catalonia to Comú We may want to know in which state is the project – I would say the poofo – of Hard Rock; how is the project failed, in this case, to build the largest casino in Europe at Camp Tarragona, and especially we would like to know what his Government, the Government of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana, intends to do, with the option of purchase that was postponed until the 15th of December. The conditions were clearly favourable for the Caixa and Hard Rock: it was possible to return the lands for two years, "the Caixa collected from the first minute 120_million euros and, in change, Hard Rock paid in term. Therefore, we would also like to know, the band of how this option of purchase is, who are the conditions that theoretically the Generality is negotiating at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.88.0	Mr President, I think that, as much as you and I are discussing this issue, we would never just agree, because we are already very and very separate. You reiterate that this is a puff, that it is a failed project, and I continue to express that this is a project necessary for the economic revival of Camp de Tarragona, of the country, in a place that we have dedicated, precisely, to carrying out tourism investments like that of Port Aventura. You may want to reverse this successful operation at Camp de Tarragona, the Costa Daurada, our country, from the 1990s, but we are, precisely, trying to make Camp de Tarragona a diversified economy, including all tourism issues, and it goes much further than building a casino, also, as you repeat..., but it is a tourist investment that will bring added value and quality. And, indeed, we have a date, which is the 15th of December, in which, before this 15th of December, at the request of the same company..., he asked us that until the 15th of December, the woman extend to buy the land, and we are negotiating with them. We're talking to the people of Hard Rock, we're talking, logically, to the people of the Box, to try to pull forward what is the government's will expressed repeatedly: first, that there is no public euro, and, second, that there is total guarantee of the government's responsibilities in this matter. Before the 15th of December, therefore, we will pronounce.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.89.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.90.0	Counselor, transparency and clarity. Is it to say, whether or not the Generalitat will execute the purchase before the 15th of December? We're in your parliamentary office. I believe that the citizens of Catalonia, the parliamentary groups, have a right to know whether or not the Generality will do it. In second place, who are the conditions? Actually for two years Hard Rock can return the land to the Box? You say there's no capital risk. Will the land cost 120 million euros if Hard Rock doesn't want it, yes or no? It's simple; you have to answer these two questions. And, look, we're transferring it, by democratic decency... we've said it more than once: they're a functioning government; they can't mortgage the future of Catalonia. Therefore, I ask – and, moreover, we are convinced that on the 14th of February there will be a new government in Catalonia – that this project will not be carried out or fired before the proper elections. Among other things, because we believe that this has to be a no-no-no. This is a bad dream, it's an outdated project, it's an ancient project, which doesn't add to a climate-emergency context, which, more than anything else, is based on the game– they can repeat it all the times they want –: it's the biggest casino in Europe, with more than 1,200 dark-buttoned machines and, in this case, more than 100 tableaus of play. Therefore, I say again what I gave to the principle: do not deceive the citizenry one more time. If or if they do not want to execute – and will execute – this sale proposal that benefits above all the Box and Hard Rock and puts in danger the resources of the citizens of Catalonia before the 15th of September? And, ultimately, we also have a right to know who the conditions are being negotiated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.91.0	Congressman, thank you; time is up... [[Pause.]] To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.92.0	Thank you. Indeed, this is a functioning government, and the functioning governments have very well delimited for the law its functions, and we can do some things and not others. But everything that makes reference, precisely, to urban planning commissions, everything that makes reference to contractual situations that the government has to resolve, so we do it because, effectively, what we cannot do is left to function. And, therefore, we resolve before the 15th of September, and with the parameters that I gave before it, no public euro and full guarantee of compensation respects the property responsibility, therefore, this shipper, because we have to do it, because Hard Rock asked until the 15th of September and before the 15th of December we solved it. We are working and we are negotiating with them and, therefore, we have a sense of doubt, before the 15th of December, we will appear so as to explain how it works, with certain conditions that – we have already stated at the time, both the vice president and myself – will be better than we pointed out at the first negotiation. And let's just tell him that what this government can't do is mortgage the future of Camp Tarragona by not carrying out projects that they have to do is reactivate economically and socially those communities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.93.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Reallotgem.cat program]] [[310-00431/12]] The next question is about the Reallotgem program. and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Antoni Morral. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.94.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Calvet, the crisis of the Covid accelerates and increases the demand for social housing in a dizzying way. The pressure in the months of emergence is exceeding the ability to offer family-friendly housing alternatives that all social service reports demonstrate their vulnerability. It is time to put all possible resources and initiatives to face this situation. We know that the solution to the problem is to increase the public social housing stock as a rule, with a quantity that is sufficient to temper the price of the market and, at the same time, to give out to vulnerable families. Today's public park is very inadequate. The same department has quantified the need in one hundred and two thousand new habitats. Cal continue to increase the housing stock, counselor. With the construction of protected logger habitats, yes, but also with other policies, in addition to other programs, such as tanteig and retractor or help to cope with the payment of the logger or mortgage, as the department already did. But today we need new initiatives, which allow us to quickly put social habitats at the disposal of the emergence. Because the emergence can't wait. In fact, the department has already announced one of these measures to be implemented in the short term: the program called Reallotgem, which clearly aims to increase the number of habitats, taking into account the diversity of circumstances, already in large cities, metropolitan cities, urban nuclei or the rural world. Referring to this latest program, Reallotgem. Cat, my question goes to the counselor. We have learned that the intention is that the Administration is located between one thousand three hundred and one thousand five hundred privately owned dwellings, that at these times it is found empty and accessible, with its corresponding habitable cell, and make them available to the months of emergence. It is a good initiative, counselor, an initiative that requires closer cooperation with the assemblies, which, like the city's closest administration, must be able to speed up the identification of these empty habitats and start conversations with the property. The speed and effectiveness of this initiative depends, to a good extent, on this area of cooperation between administrations. To get out of the crisis we need more resources, of course, but resources can be seen as insufficient if we do not establish effective and efficient governance spaces. And in this sense, counselor, this program in which you consist, what do you suppose and whose families are destined for?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word "Conseller of Territories and Sustainability", Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.96.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, thank you very much for asking again about housing. You know that this is one of the obsessions of the Department of Territory and one of the priorities of the Government of the Generality. We have put in place many initiatives, some in the form of urgent measures at the length of this legislature, and, indeed – and you say so – from the complex reception of housing policies, the main ingredient is to increase the social logger park, public or private, because it can be of public promotion, but we can also give help to the private because it also has all its capacity in this increase of the social logger habitats. And as long as it's through promotion as it is through buying and retracting, this government has made important passes. Yesterday, the government approved a new transfer between Incasòl and the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia of 23_million euros to continue buying for many and retraction. At some point I felt that the public promotion policy said was ridiculous: "Well, it is that the Generality has only begun this or that other and I always say that, apart from the ones that we have begun new promotion, we have also bought and retracted through Decree 1/15, which allowed us to increase very quickly and significantly this public park of habitats. So, 23 million more. Yesterday, the government approved it. And yes, we also pulled forward the Reallotgem program. How much. It's a very innovative program. What he is trying to do is that between the Generality, the assemblies and also the months of emergence that have these very assemblies we find out and can agile the location in the habitats of the thousand and seven hundred vulnerable people and families that are in these months of emergence. The program will consist of the Generality agreeing on concerted policies, which you claimed, with the joints so that these joints seek, capture empty habitats. We'll pay them for this job. Therefore, you will be able to dedicate, as well, personal, specific or already on the staff, to pull forward this research. Once we have found them, we will join them – Habitat Agency – directly with the owners and then it will either be the Generality, with the single emergency table, or every emergency table that will be found by the person or family of this thousand-seven-cent list of ideas that is embedded in this habitat. The price of the logger will be the one that marks the law of yield containment; the price of the social logger that will pay the vulnerable person or family will be the one that marks the 24/15. Twenty-one million euros. The year 2021_has to be the year in which we definitely speed up the waiting lists of the social emergence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.97.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the exercise of autonomous competitions in the field of infrastructure]] [[310-00435/12]] The next question, about the exercise of autonomous competitions in the field of infrastructures, is the formula on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Ignacio Martín. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.98.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. How do you value the exercise of the generality's infrastructure competence, Mr. Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.99.0	To answer the question you have the word the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.100.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, that's it, in general, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.101.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.102.0	Thanks for the answer, counselor. It seems to me curious that you can say that you value it very well, bearing in mind that some days ago we have known the report of the Union of Accounts on the development of one of the main public works of the Generality. During these last twenty years, the Generalitat has had a work that has been truly outrageously a disaster for the citizens of Catalonia. This work accumulates fourteen years of delay and accumulates an extra cost of 5,000_million euros, of the 2,000 initially assumed to be almost 7,000 that has already cost until the year 2016. So, there's still four years of scrutiny to find out how far this cup will go. It seems that the xifra could fit up to EUR 13,000_million and, therefore, I believe that I positively value the exercise of the generality's infrastructure competence, with this scandal so absolute that it occurred for what it does in the work of L9, I seem to me if more did not bother on its part. What is obvious, Mr. Counselor, is that you have passed away, is that you spend your life telling us that Spain robs us, that Spain robs us, etc., but what we have seen with these figures is that who has wasted the resources of the citizens of Catalonia, of the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia, it is you, it is the Republican Left, it is the Convergence of all life, they are, in short, the so-called Junts for Catalonia and the separatist parties. In account to assume their responsibilities, in account to recognize that you have done a disastrous management of this work, in account to admit that, if in account to be you, you have been another administration like now the Government of Spain that you have had to end up looking like a disaster, you would be talking about it all the time. So, what we are asking for out of respect for the city of Catalonia is simply that you are apologizing, recognizing that it has been a real disaster and that this public work that has had a lot of irregularities and corruption – surely related to 3_per_cent of its party – so we believe that, if not, you would have to do a bit of self-criticism and admit that its management has been disastrous. For the citizens of Catalonia and, in these times of pandemic, these figures are particularly deplorable, especially indignant and especially unacceptable. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.104.0	Thank you very much. I mean, you're playing a lot of steroids, you're playing for press releases, but we're used to it. The truth, eh. And if you think there's been any irregularities or corruption here, the prosecutor's office is gone, the prosecutor's office is gone. You don't say that here in your parliamentary office in an unpunished way. Miri, like the Government, line 9 is priority, necessary and strategic. It was and is an ambition project that has been affected – yes, affected – long these years by different situations that have delayed its completion. But let me be clear, the figures and figures contained in the report of the Union of Accounts, in particular for what it does at cost, are not new and are known and public since 2011, and we are up to 2020. Line 9 today doesn't have the same material cost as it did, but it does have the same material cost as 2011, because there hasn't been any special increase, the fixed cost is the same. He designed an ambitious work, 50 miles more than a meter. We increased – therefore, it's not a cost overrun – we increased the size of the 80's project that I had initially. And so it was, and that was changing, because it's a transformative work for the city of Barcelona and the metropolitan area of Barcelona. There's been a change in layout, an increase in seasons, a change in construction systems to improve our security. A large part, an important part of line 9, is already in service, the part that goes to Badalona and also the part that goes to the Hospitallet and also goes back to Barcelona. And, therefore, everything that has been this year, for example, the inn serves as five new stations. This is not negligible. We've set up five new stations. So this is all what it means to pull this 9-line work forward. The financial mechanisms and the valuations in the awards may be more or less pleasing, but what has to be very clear is that all the money has been destined to execute the work of line 9, and that the valuations of the criteria decide the Infrastructures. How much. Therefore, it is a job that we do from two departments: the Vice Presidency and the Territory. Line 9 is a key bet on the public transport system in Barcelona and the metropolitan area. It will provide us with a robust public transport structure that connects the entire metropolitan area. The objective is nothing but to reduce emissions. To have a more sustainable mobility and, therefore, to contribute to improving the fight against climate change. Therefore, the bet of this government and of this councilman is firm. We will continue to bring forward this great project that was modified in 2011– from here these costs to what you insidiously refer – to bring forward an important work for the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.105.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Comparison of the Vice-President of the Government, in place of the President of the Generality, to report on the further steps taken by the Government to contain the epidemic outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[350-00019/12]] At the end of the control session, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the attendance of the Vice President of the Government to report on the further steps taken by the Government to contain the epidemic outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. As the Vice-President of the Government has requested to appear before the plenary in order to report on these measures, the Vice-President, Mr Pere Aragonès, first of all, has the words "the President's Counsellor", Ms Meritxell Budó, in accordance with Rule 85.6 of the Rules of Procedure". Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.106.0	Thank you very much, President. He'll advise. Deputys the deputies. Very good morning to everyone. One week the government appears on its own volition, and in agreement with the parliamentary groups that form part of this chamber, to subtly control our government action in relation to the management of the health, social and economic crisis provoked by the Covid-19. It is the third appearance that the government does in full since October 25th declared the state of alarm to contain the spread of the pandemic. A totally exceptional situation and that, as we have reiterated on many occasions, we want to manage from the maximum transparency, from the maximum democratic compromise, guaranteeing at all times a smooth communication with this chamber. It is up to us, therefore, to manage the uncertainty caused by the pandemic; the danger and the refusal to know when this disease will end. The frustration and despondency that many people are, many people. Because we look very much at the pandemic from the health and socio-economic points of view. But if we want to give a good response to the citizenry, as complete as possible, we can also incorporate an emotional look into this crisis. And the first step is no more than offering answers to the citizenry as clear as uncertainty allows us to do it. Answers that sometimes aren't the answers we want to hear. And I assure you that they are not the answers many times that I want to give. And, above all, I want to listen a lot to everyone, to the citizenry, to all the social and economic agents, to all the members of this chamber, to all the parliamentary groups. And, for that, we will appear, whenever possible, as often as you need, while this situation lasts. The best anti-uncertainty antidote is information, communication, transparency; it is acting with total democratic compromise, adding everyone, counting on everyone, to work from co-responsibility and helping to bring out the solidarity that makes us as strong as society. It is up to us to show solidarity against the uncertainty, against the por, against the anguish and against the negit provoked by the pandemic. And that involves all of us. At all times, the government's goal is nothing more than to get the pandemic under control, protect salvation and save lives. We have to do everything in our hands to preserve life. Only on the 21st to 27th of November did three-hundred_two nine deaths occur for Covid-19 in Catalonia; three-hundred_two nine deaths occurred on the 21st to 27th of November, a xifra that cannot be normalized. We can get used to it. There is the pain of many people and of many families, of many friends and friends. Since the beginning of the pandemic, nearly seventeen thousand people have died in Catalonia. We cannot normalize it and we must always be present, as well as taking action on the pandemic and measures that also have economic and social implications. And this is the reality we live in. Because the government's obsession is to protect everyone's salvation, preserve life, save lives. We said it to the beginning of the second wave and we repeated it a week later: we are living in an extremely difficult situation, which will only improve noticeably when the bulk of the population is vaccinated. A scener every time, that of this majority of the vaccinated population... that the scientific adventures with its regulatory path are every time more clean. Therefore, it places us in a certain horizon of optimism but at the same time, while we do not get there, we must be loving at all times..., and take the decisions that from the social and economic point of view still remain hard, if the health situation demands it. These decisions are difficult, but we have taken them with complete conviction and we will take them with complete conviction if we do, as we have done other times. They are the best decisions from the health point of view, because our obligation is to age to avoid losing what is impossible to recover, which is life. With this objective, one month and a half ago, on October 15th, the Procicate approved the closure of bars and restaurants and the reduction of the expansion of shops, cultural and gymnastics sectors. We decided to adopt restrictive measures in a context of a strong increase in positive cases, but far from the gifres of other territories, which took longer than us to take similar measures. We anticipated, therefore, that they would take measures that did not take place in other areas of our circle. And the result was positive. However, with the measures taken since one-and-a-half months ago, we have managed to make the infections drop. In a short time we have achieved a change of trend in the evolution of the Covid-19, when in other territories perhaps they have not had such an accelerated increase in contagious diseases, but, on the contrary, they have taken much longer to begin to reduce the number of infected people, a process that is also much more progressive than the experience in Catalonia in this second year. We've moved on. We have taken measures with sufficient time to control the second wave of contagious diseases. We did not expect to have the health system overly strained to decide to implement these measures, because we either anticipate or run the risk that the health system is collapsing and, therefore, are obliged to decree a total residential confinement, and with the harmful social and economic consequences that this has entailed. The accumulated experience these past few months shows us that if we move forward, if we take decisions in time, we can control the steps ahead. If we move forward, there is less pressure on the health system, on CAPs, on hospitals and on ICUs. Because only an idea was made, during the first wave we arrived at 1,800 beds of occupied ICUs for Covid-19 malalts, and in this second wave the peak of patients in critical situation who are in an ICU has not reached six hundred. During the first wave of the pandemic, unfortunately, more than 12,500 people died, and unfortunately in the last two months they did not die mass, 2,500, but along with those figures of the first wave. Let's move on and save some more lives. We are moving forward with less rigid measures than total confinement and with a shorter duration. In less than one month we have managed to change the dynamics of the pandemic without resorting to a strict confinement like that which we suffered last spring and which widened almost a hundred days, from March 14 to June 20. And we've done that since the first day, we've kept the schools open. It seemed impossible to do so, but without any doubt, once overtaken the new wave of the Covid, to claim the good work of all the teachers and, in fact, of the conjunction of the educational community; also the compromise of the students of this country and the confidence of the seas and pairs. Because we're going back to a complicated course, a strange course. And, once again, teachers, teachers, families and students show the immensity and strength of our country's education system. And for this I want to convey the most sincere thanks, as I also want to thank the efforts of all professionals of health and care and also the commitment of the citizenry. Modestly, we didn't get out. Taking into account the evolution of the pandemic to countries that have overcome the first wave, without great problems, and that in change they have suffered much more late. Now, we can't fall into the self-contained. We need to learn lessons but it doesn't fall into self-contained. We must always touch from little to little and act with great humility. Covid-19 has been a cure of humiliation for our societies. For everyone, also for the rulers. Because we know that in a matter of days the pandemic can be out of control and when it's out of control it's very and very hard to stop. Today, the number of infections continues to be high: over a thousand cases are detected on a daily basis. We have, for a few days, stabilized the spread rate around 0.8 for a few weeks, which has really helped us to stabilize the health situation and reduce the number of people who have entered hospitals and ICUs, and to do so significantly and quickly. But precisely, the lessons of the virus are that the guard cannot be lowered at the moment. In this week the propagation indicators, of the propagation speed, – the famous Rt – is going back up again, is lying at 0.9. The risk of resurgence after days of strong fall has, therefore, stabilized and threatened to change the trend. And that's why it's essential to make a call to the people's side. Health measures – health measures –, preventive measures, measures to prepare the health system, but also the measures that are taking place in all economic and social activities cannot replace the civic compromise. The city compromise is irreplaceable. The individual personal attitude of each of us in front of the pandemic is irreplaceable. He can't replace no government, he can't replace no administrative rule, he can't replace no code of practical bonds. We need to keep this firm and this responsibility, all of us. Our objective was to say – and we said in this room – that it was to maintain the speed of propagation below 1, and it is true that today we are still below 1. So we're still slowing down, but we're doing it with a lot less speed than a week ago. And we also established that our goal was to maintain the name of daily cases under 1,000 and to maintain the name of UCI beds occupied by Covid-19 malalts under 300. The first target, Rt under 1, we absolved a few weeks ago. The second and third objectives are far from assembling them, especially the names of ICU patients. We go lying down, moving forward, little by little, but little by little. Achieve these objectives – therefore, fewer than 300 people in ICUs, less than 1,000 cases diaris – would allow the health system to treat the diseases of Covid-19 without neglecting other pathologies. This is also the objective, because we don't want to die from Covid-19, but we don't want to die from other evils that we can treat, detect and treat opportunely and therefore avoid a pittance of other types of salvation. And that was a key element. That's why they took action, so they could take care of everyone. I, if you call, we'll take them back. So much work remains to be done. The good dynamic we've been having the first few weeks has allowed us to begin a progressive flexibility of restrictive measures to stop the Covid-19. It is a process of flexibility thought to last two_months, at length of which, if the indicators have been completed – if the indicators have been completed – they will allow more re-opening and expansion of outputs. The trams of the opening plan are organized according to strict health criteria. We don't want to run and we can't run, because we could blow. We know that June went too fast. And surely that's why the sprouts were produced before here, sprouts, therefore, generalized to certain parts of the territory. For this reason a good flexibility of the measures, prudent, is key to avoid putting up with a maximum of a third time, which could arrive this winter before we do not have the vaccine, therefore, applied in a general way. A little more than a week ago we started the first flexibilities with the revival of restoration, culture, cultural activities, extracurriculars, trades and sports equipment. We were all aware that the flexibility of measures was associated with the management of a higher health risk. And these last few days we start to notice the consequences. After many days, the transmission rate and the risk of rebound have grown again, slightly. The transmission rate is still below 1, but there is a point that has to focus our attention. And, therefore, we need to put all our folds on alert and we need to mark the decisions we have to make in the next few weeks. We know, therefore, that a good strategy is one based on citizen self-protection and the multiplication of tracking tasks and preventive character detection tests. If we do, we can keep the situation under control, in a balance that will always be precarious until there is a generalised vaccine. Therefore, it is key to move forward. And the best way is to do it through massive cribratges to detect as much as possible the names of people who carry the virus and who do not have any symptoms. These days we are campaigning for territory, because it is key and essential to detect asymptomatic people, who do not know that they have the virus and, therefore, do so in order to stop the spread of it and break the possible channels of community transmission. This isn't basic; if you're not aware that you're a virus carrier, you're not going to wing yourself and, if you don't know it, you can pass the virus on to your family, friends and other people around you more closely. We're doing everything that's in our hands, everything, but if the evolution of input data is going to stop us again. For this reason, I would like to reiterate once again the calls to the responsibility of the citizenry, the responsibility also of the sectors that are proceeding to the opening. All of it – all of it. We all have to share that responsibility. We all think about how we celebrate the Nadal and how we do it with our family. Families that have suffered this anguish, this because they do not know where to be from here a few months, families that have also lost people and families that have survivors too, but that may pour symptoms. Therefore, we must be very careful. We can't take the same risks as summer. We don't have to go too fast. As a society we have to understand that today with our behavior we play it is that, with what we are doing now and with the behavior of all folds and with the decisions we make, we play it, therefore, that the least name of families pass the Nadal pending from a relative to the ICU or pending from someone in the hospital. Therefore, the coming days are essential. It's the 2nd of December. We have been calling for responsibility for all of us for twenty days: citizens, economic operators, governments, health professionals. And that's what makes us like to rule and that's what worries us. With the strategy of massive cracks and the reinforcement of tracking tasks we are trying to do all this preventive task, which is done from public services, get to Nadal with the controlled pandemic and the least possible Covid malalts. In this sense, the Government has designed and granted a plan for the Nadal; a plan to adapt the social activity of Nadal and the change of year to the Covid-19 coherent with the system of trams that we announced and that brings transparency, which brings predictability, which allows everyone to know "we have these indicators, so we already know what it is that can happen in a few days; a plan from knowledge of reality, with epidemiological data to the hand, with which the Department of Health works, day after day, but also understand – and feel realistic – the importance of the moment of family holidays, which, in order to take care of the family, we have to bring to an end with the utmost responsibility. We can't trust a vaccine we don't have yet. Which has advanced a lot scientifically, which we are prepared for when you are, so... what is the material to put together, can be implemented in Catalonia with the highest celerity. I'll do it, and I'll do it right. But it's not replaceable, we can't make a jump in time. We need to overcome the critical weeks that come. As soon as the vaccine arrives, so the days will get longer, and the weeks will get longer, and we must remain responsible. And Nadal, even more. The Pla de Nadal of the Generality – which we will obviously defend, because it is the Government of Catalonia that decides in these areas, and we will obviously work with the rest of the administration – contemplates a flexibility of the night confinement on the night of Nadal and the night of Cap d'Anny, which in this case would begin at 1.30 a.m.; the night confinement, therefore, would begin at 1.30 a.m., the night of 5 of generation would begin at 11 a.m. and not to the gods. For what it does to the number of people in the family finds, it is obvious that it must be the least possible – the least possible – and that, in no case, we have more than one person. I, for what it does to mobility, the Pla de Nadal kept the indications fixed on the Pla d'opentura through the different trams. And from here on out, we'll have to celebrate a Nadal, a Sant Esteve, a Cap d'Any and Kings different, very different. Do it with maximum security and full responsibility, because we all have to keep a lot in mind that we have to avoid the fall of the year being the third time. It won't be normal parties, we won't be able to celebrate them the way we want. After most of the year, making efforts to avoid dinars and dinners with family and friends, we would like nothing more than to be able to make these findings without limitation. But it can't be. There will be restrictions and for the sake of everyone, we will have to complete them. We're experiencing a serious global health crisis, not a joke. It's not a game because we're alive. And every time we have more about the possibility to start vaccinating the population. And every time, we are, therefore, more likely to start getting group immunity that will allow us to overcome the pandemic. There are a few months left, in which it is up to us to demand a collective super-effort in which, of course, for many it is the hardest year of his life. We're doing a little extra effort with the conviction that we're leaving the pandemic year behind and we're starting the recovery year. But we have to do it, this extra effort – we have to do it. And the next few weeks are the key. And let's let go of the jo, let go of the individual visit and put on ours, the collection, in the first term. And we're also the family in the first term. They're friends, too. That, with our day-to-day, responsible attitude, we must be able to protect – we must be able to protect. The Covid shows us that, from our individual actions, they reflect the progress and the well-being of the collection, that they represent the salvation of life for all of us. Selfishness, which is left in a calaix. Let's stop thinking of one and think of one after the collectivity. This virus will still affect us while you're still affecting each of them; no one is saved if we're not all saved. Well, the most important thing is now, so it's pretty common. That we all have salvation, that we have covered the most basic needs and that we can all enjoy a rich social and cultural life, according to us. We will succeed, therefore, if we become aware that we share the same society, the same time, and that nothing will strengthen us to build the future together. We're working, so, in the whole detection pocket, massive cribrats. We continue to strengthen the response capacity of the health system, anticipation of the health system, response of the health system, accompanying that we will continue because the health pandemic may change, but the economic and social pandemic will last even longer. Support measures, that there will be many more and there will be more and we will continue to work so that there will be still more, but individual responsibility for the collection is essential. And so, let's call everyone, in these... we have twenty days ahead of us extremely critical; twenty days. For the sake of re-opening, for the sake of raising the blind again if with our individual behavior we pose at risk that it is again restricting activities. So let's call everyone in this sense. We will continue to work, therefore, as the Government and we will be held accountable in this Parliament. And now, then, there will be the words of the President's Counsellor, who will enter into the detail of many of the actions that I have advanced. Thank you very much, Mr President; you will advise, advise, advise, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.107.0	Thank you, Vice President. It has the word, effectively, now, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs Meritxell Budó. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.108.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members... "The Government of Catalonia is determined that, in this crisis, no city will be left behind. We are determined to respond to health, economic, educational, social and emotional needs. I wanted to start my intervention with these words, which I myself addressed one month ago, in the first government appearance in this chamber, to return accounts of everything that I was referring to the second time in the Covid-19 that we were patenting. In fact, in agreement with this government's commitment to hold back, I want to remind them that in the past Ple compared the Vergés Councillor and the Samper Councillor and that last week, you said the same, also compared before the Health Commission the secretary of Public Health, Dr. Argimon, as well as the coordinator of the Covid-19 Follow-up Unit of the Government to Catalonia, Mr. Jacobo Mendioroz. And today we're going back to the vice president and myself, because these last few days we've had important news. Important developments that we could summarize in this Reopening Plan that we were going to present – and which now the vice president mentioned – and also in the main measures that we have been able to support in these two weeks to support the different sectors affected by the crisis as a result of this pandemic. As you know, it was two months ago that, like most countries around us, we had to undertake very harsh restrictions that have had a strong impact on people and sectors of our country. This anticipation and this effort have allowed us to change the dynamics of the pandemic, without resorting to a narrower confinement, without resorting to total confinement. Result: We've lowered the data very quickly. In fact, at the same speed that we wanted to lower them during total confinement. And we've done it, after all, before our predictions. But that doesn't mean you've gone all the wrong way. We are still ahead of a constantly evolving global pandemic, because the virus has taken its course and we need to be able, like the Government, to follow up on all health data, but also all economic and social data, so as to give a quick and effective response to all the immediate needs that are generated in our country, but also to the medium and long term. And in this context, the 23rd of November began the application of this Plan of progressive opening of the activities affected by the restrictive measures that we had to take. We are, therefore, in a phase of flexibility of measures. A phase that we can start thanks – and I must say this – to the responsibility, the effort and the sacrifices of the citizenry, and, in particular, the sectors affected by restrictive measures. I would like to point out, however, that we are not in a stage of descalation. It is very important that we are aware of this: we are not in a stage of descalation. We are in a phase of flexibility, as much as possible as necessary, but we have taken into account that we are managing this second one with a binomial health-economy. And it's at this point that I want to make an incisor in the need of this Progressive Opening Plate. Because we can't make it clear that in this second one we don't have the same situation or perspective in the social and economic spheres that we had in the first one. Because I can remember that we arrive at this second one with sectors that still bear economic consequences of the first and with workers that still today have not charged the ERTOs. And, of course, sometimes we talk about salvation, sometimes we talk about economics, but the reality is that they are concepts that come together. They're concepts that can't detract from one another. Obviously, without salvation there is no economy; but without economy there is no salvation. Moreover, both the economy and health have social consequences that are also indestriable. And, therefore, it is in the relationship between the health, social and economic spheres that we must find the most effective measures to control the pandemic and its consequences. Measures that we have worked together with the affected sectors. And it is that the dialogue with the sectors is constant, and we have not only worked with them on this re-opening plan, but we also continue to work, day by day, with them, the assessment and analysis of their development. To give you an example, this very day I presided over a meeting with the main representatives of the sport sector of our country, in order to evaluate this first stage of the recovery of sports activity. A first stage of re-opening that the sector values positively, because the economy of the sports entities and the companies of the field of the field was in a very critical situation, and because to do sport is also to do salutation, as in a very uncertain way claims the sector. And it is in the framework of this coordination and dialogue with the sectors – in this case I was referring to the sport – that I want to put in value also that they will bring to terms the people through a selection of the main sports clubs of the territory, in collaboration with the Department of Health. Therefore, we are talking about a re-opening plan, the result of the dialogue with the sectors, progressive – remembering that it will last to the end in four trams – and that to advance from one to the other it is necessary to complete with positive evolution values of the pandemic, as at least in the contagious rate and in hospital admissions. With population cracks that, in addition, will allow us to search for the virus in those sections of the population that, at these times, are difficult for us to access. And in this first phase we have made a re-opening of the catering sector, an opening of the cultural, sports, trade and non-formal activities sector. And each of these sectors, with a lot of work and a lot of concrete action. And if all goes well, if we continue to gain ground to the virus, we will enter, when epidemiological data permits, on a _second tram. As I said, they always watch the evolution of healthcare data, the advice of experts and also the dialogue with the sectors involved. A tram in which, according to what we have predicted, between other measures, will allow the reopening of commercial centres with a 30_per_cent increase – we remember that they are now closed – and the measures of municipal confinement, which would become of regional confinement, the heads of the week, will rise. And if the evolution is still good, we'd get on a third tram, where social activities can already be done with a maximum of two people, we'd move from six people to two people. And for what it does to mobility, there would be no more week-end restrictions, beyond the night confinement, than this one is kept from the night to the morning. And if the situation continues, we go planning this quarter tram, where we could already gradually recover the presence in the battle and we could also resume the sports competitions, which also remember that at these times have been adjourned. And now we find ourselves at the gates of Nadal's feasts; some feasts that are synonymous with family reunions, celebrations at home, keeping loved ones close. And you realize that this year will not be like the other years, because that's why we don't have to be aware, we need to make some very small exceptions that allow us to connect with this emotional need that bring us these holidays, and give certain reasons why people can plan it, as the vice president explained to us. This late we will be attending the interterritorial council, listening, as we always do, but we will be aware that, as the vice president has explained, we have our own Nadal plan and it is our own Nadal plan that we will apply. It's at these moments when the Process is meeting and you have on the table exactly approve this plan of Nadal, and once the Process approves it, so it will detail the plans of..., that is, it will detail the whole plan of Nadal. In fact, they know that since March we have claimed to take our own decisions and take the most appropriate measures to deal with the pandemic, analyzing the data at every moment according to the solvent criteria of our health authorities and also depending on the situation that we are living economically and socially in our territories, because who better knows what is going on in our home and how the Covid-19 is affecting our citizens ourselves. But above all I want to insist and I want to point out that we are still in the next few days, and therefore we have the maximum cooperation and prudence of all and all to keep moving forward in this re-opening plan. The review process of the measures is a continuous process and must be valued with the utmost rigour, they can re-fix measures if the data so require. That is why everyone's collaboration and the strict compliment of self-protection measures are essential. The more controlled the pandemic is, the sooner we can move forward. It's everyone's job. And, speaking of controlling the pandemic, coinciding with this opening plan, we're pushing the active search for the virus. We want to anticipate, we're going to look for it, we want to find it, and we want to break the chain of contagion. And that's why the massive cracks are intensifying. They have done so and are making themselves to populations with Badalona, such as Mataró, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Sabadell, La Llagosta, Mollet, Montcada and Reixac, Figueres, Olot and Banyoles, among others, as well as in one-twenty municipalities of the region of Alt Pirineu and Aran. In addition, the Health Department has also reinforced the system with five hundred more people on the tracking circuits. And, from the government, and just as Councillor Vergés also advanced, the strategy of vaccination against the Covid-19 in Catalonia is being worked out so that when the vaccine arrives, we still have enough to be able to immunize, or begin to immunize if not, our people. In short, the Government's strategy in this section involves a package of measures which, taking into account the health, economic and social spheres, establish clear and concrete rules of the game for each situation of coexistence with the virus, a coexistence that we know will last months, and therefore these rules of the game allow us to adapt at every moment to the specific situation; a package of measures which, taking into account the health, economic and social spheres, consist of two types: for one band, public safety measures, which include restrictive measures and self-protection measures for mass screening, and, for another, active measures for economic and social protection. And it is in this sense that the Government has also approved laws and measures and aid in the past few days; one of them: the creation of the Register of Self-Employed Persons Economically Affected by Coronavirus, which was activated before yesterday and which has as its objective to facilitate access to aid and simplify the procedures to be followed in order to achieve them. This same decree also adopts measures such as the reduction of the tax burden on those sectors that have seen a heavy impact..., for the restrictive measures that we need to take to deal with the spread of the virus. And another decree, which we approved last week, provides for a whole series of complementary and urgent measures in the areas of youth facilities, cooperatives, culture, entities in the third social sector and services in the field of assembly and adoption. And, as you know, from the import of liquidity for business and self-government entities, we have also approved a set of measures that make it possible to approve the medium period of payment to providers of the Generality and its public sector. I, also following these active measures of social and economic protection, would like to highlight the Reallotgem program. Cat, which, as Councillor Calvet announced, or announced today during the control session, allocates 21_million euros to reach between 1,300 and 1,500 private dwellings to the families of the months of emergence pending a relocation. And, in the field of sport, we have also extended aid up to EUR 25 million, and the call was opened before yesterday so that they could start asking for aid. Or in the field of the local world, with the approval of the Extraordinary Local Cooperation Fund, endowed with 120_million euros. And these are some of the social and economic protection measures that we've been driving since the government. Now, in the same way that Covid has social and economic consequences, we cannot look at another band and do not see the social and economic effects and implications of the decisions of the Spanish State regarding the management of Covid. We could say that the citizens of southern Europe suffer from two viruses: the virus of the Covid and the virus of the harmful management of the Government of the Spanish State regarding the social and economic protection of the citizens and citizens of this country. And I'll just ask you two questions as an example. Has the Spanish Government used all European aid, as President Torra requested? And the answer is no. They did not want to ask, for example, the Mede funds, which had supposed for Catalonia more than 4,000_million euros. Has the Government of the Spanish State compensated for the losses caused by Covid to self-employed people and businesses? The answer is no again. But the hardest part is that, above all, they support the quota of the autonomes and not only that now they announce that for the proper exercise, by 2021, they will again push it. Dr. Argimon said the other day: "We are not a poor country, but neither are we a rich country. If we could afford the necessary help, I don't think we'd be reopening bars, restaurants or other types of business. Or, yesterday, Dr. Padrós warned us that the country is maintaining a balance, necessary but also very fragile, between economy and salvation. And that's the reality. The situation generated by the crisis of the Covid-19 reveals the infra-financing of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The situation generated by the crisis of the Covid-19 puts the Spanish Government before the Mirall, a government that makes people and businesses pay for the economic crisis generated by this health crisis. The situation generated by the crisis in Covid-19 shows that the only opportunity for the progress and well-being of the citizens of Catalonia is to have the tools and resources of a similar state. Mirin, while the Government of the Spanish State gives accounts to Congress, for example, every two months, the Catalan Government does so every plenary session. While the Spanish Government does not give direct help to local authorities and businesses, the Catalan Government, as well as the infra-financing situation we suffer, decrees direct help to both local authorities and businesses. Only one point of respect: the last line of direct help to the industry has allowed to preserve in Catalonia 9,600 places of work. I end up, and I end up addressing the citizen and the citizens of our country. The current situation is very complex and affects all levels of our lives, from salvation to work, friends, family. In short, it affects us all and everyone in our day to day. But we know that in the evolution of the pandemic, we all have a role to play. And we're doing well– we're doing well– but we have to follow it well; we can't relax and we can't lower the guard. We must comply with all the measures that are decreed because we understand them and because we believe them, and not because they force us to do so. Self-protection measures are the key to pandemic control; this is how they are the key to pandemic control. I am for one, but I am for the others too; for all the people that we think, but also for all those people that we do not even know but who are part of our country. Always masquerade, always keeping distance, always reducing our social interaction to the maximum. These measures must always be maintained. And above all to ventilate. These days, when we find ourselves in the family environment, if it's not in the open, we ventilate. When friends come home, let's ventilate. Even though we're wearing masks, even though we're keeping our distance, even if we're six people, we need to ventilate. Because the simple and simple gesture of having an open window is the best prevention we can do for ourselves and for others. Remember: co-responsibility and self-protection measures are all necessary and essential to combat this pandemic. Thank you very much, President, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.109.0	Thank you, Counselor. Let us now move on to the interventions of the parliamentary groups. And in the first place has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.110.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen..., Mr Aragonès, your appearances during the last month reflect the curve of your incompetence or your impotence, and we, in fact, acknowledge that we are not able to double it. You've been waiting two weeks longer for them not to move their chair than to fix the broken that you've done to self-employed people and workers. Two weeks ago you rose from the table for the management of the pandemic in protest of the leaks of your partners; then you sat back down, but no one would have noticed the difference, because management has also been a disaster. You are ashamed of all Catalans. No one explains how they are offering this show at one of the most decisive moments in our autonomous community in recent years. You have spent a decade asking for independence to better manage the resources and crises that the Spanish Government and when a pandemic comes you can see that you are very bad managers and that there really is little difference between the worst managers that have ever been in the Spanish Government and you. Councillor El Homrani has been little less than hidden since he did not want to resign. The Vergés Counsellor remains impassable by seeing how other autonomous communities manage health and keeping quiet about their three-hour lunches with Mr Vendrell. Tremosa, Mr. Counsellor Tremosa, is amending the plan to you, your boss, Mr. Aragonès, wanting to replace you in the conferences of presidents, torpedoing the measures of Councilwoman Vergés. Mrs. Budó and Mr. Sàmper were dizzying with the election date, because the polls aren't going very well with the Junts per Cat polls. And ultimately, this government is a cage of crickets. We play Christmas as a family because of its late, ineffective, unilateral or directly non-existent management. Think twice before talking about Catalan NASA or that we will be Southern Denmark, because it has become clear to all Catalans what you are: agitators incapable of validly managing a country or an autonomous community with that level of management need that we have today. You now had the opportunity to show that you were sensitive to the problems of the Catalans, who are able to manage the crisis, even though you continue with the mantra that it is the evil Spanish state that oppresses you. I think you've been a tremendous disappointment even to your own. And what I'm telling you is that you've shown what you're capable of under pressure. All administrations have had a real stress test with this pandemic. You haven't passed the stress test. Evidence not passed, gentlemen of the government. They are the autonomous government, by the way, most incompetent in the management of the Spanish pandemic. After a month when the self-employed, small businesses and many workers have been on the dry dock because they have been restricted without aid, the first phase of the descalation that you started a week ago came late. Monday 23 was not the end of the lock for many, because many could not reopen their business. They had no material or human resources to open. You may have thought that a business and the workers who depend on it can survive a month and a half closed, with no income at all, with no help of any kind, with the blind down, and despite everything enduring, paying taxes, and, after all, opening the blind. You seem to know little about the needs of Catalonia, or you even want little of Catalans or Catalonia. You have not paid the aid, with how quickly you are to put the people who depend on the process out of business. But the hole in the pocket of thousands of Catalans continues and the pain and anguish towards the future and the economic present of their families also continues. Now it's too late for many families. They couldn't open last week because they've been ruined by the bandages and the government's lack of help. You've left them lying down and now you don't raise your heads to move on. From Ciutadans we have met with many of the sectors affected by their mismanagement in these weeks. I say to him: we have seen people crying, crying out of despair and despair not only of not receiving help, but of not being nor being asked by you about what measures the most sectors could help them, who had no dialogue with you in all their despair. And now we have found that, in your speech, Mr Aragonès, you make many calls to the responsibility of the citizens, so has Mrs Budó. Gentlemen of the Government, the citizens have been very responsible. They have been very responsible, and they have endured a great deal, and they have had very little help from this government. We believe that what remains to be endured, in the light of that speech that everything is delayed, that everything is left to the responsibility of the citizens, is that we are going to have two and a half months ahead – those that remain until the elections – holding the same style of government, unless you delay the elections because they fall in shame of running for elections with this panorama of the government. Look, these people we speak to are also your people, Mr Aragonès, and they are the people for whom you have to govern and who have felt absolutely abandoned. And it's just that, look, another crisis management is possible. The Autonomous Communities have shown that they have faced this crisis from various perspectives. There have been those who have done massive tests. There have been those who have practiced confinements by areas to encircle the virus, without destroying the economy and without paying righteous for sinners. There have been communities that have kept bars, restaurants and shops open, but in keeping with the health standards that is the first thing that all hoteliers and restaurateurs, bars, cafes and restaurants have worked hard to deal with the pandemic from their premises and have scrupulously complied with the standards that were given where they were allowed to open. We, in Madrid, as you know, govern and are a benchmark for the management of the pandemic for these groups, because we have doubled the curve while the workers and the self-employed have at least guaranteed their economic survival. And we have also ruled, and we govern in Castile and León, where there is consensus with the affected sectors and the closure was compensated with aid of 290_million_de_euro, in an autonomy that has 2,4_million inhabitants, a_third_part of the state inhabitants of Catalonia, and also has a total budget of 10,000_million_de_euro, compared to the 33,000 that we have. It was a very important effort, the 290_million, but do you know what happens? That Castile and León's autonomy sought the money, got the money, brought it together, because, among other things, they have no expenses like putting satellites in orbit, nor setting up Catalan NASAs, nor the most expensive TV of all with a lot of difference. And you could do something good for the Catalans, take note of how we manage the crisis where we govern, which is basically solvency. Catalans see how Madrid better manages the health crisis and does not freeze taxes on the middle classes. Do you policies in favour of the workers and the self-employed and stop punishing them with your identity hell, fine those who do not label in Spanish or expel companies with their impositions. The last scandal. Mrs. Marta Vilalta has left the Chamber, she was a while ago. She said last week that the richest people in Madrid live at the expense of the poorest people in Catalonia. That's the climax of xenophobia. It demonstrates the moral chastisement of those leaders of nationalism who make such statements in the midst of the pandemic. If you don't collect any more taxes in Catalonia, it's because of the identity hell you've mounted. There are no tax havens in Spain. There's identity hells. [[Some applause.]] And those identity hells cause the company to run away, Mr. Aragonès. You announce inspections to those who flee from you and leave Catalonia. A lot of inspection and a lot of inspection, you say, but in the end you will have nothing left to inspect if you continue to expel companies, Mr Aragonès. The Catalans do not vote for them to erase the good of Madrid, but to bring something good to Catalonia, and you have not done it in three years of legislature and I fear you will not do it now. We have begun December, means that we are at the door of the end of the legislature, which has been marked by all kinds of defiance, of the campal battles of the radicals when they do not like the sentences, of disobedience of a president of the Generalitat, who had to go by the false door, of harassment and overthrow against the institutions and the officials, a harmful management of the pandemic... Look, Mr Aragonès, this is going to be your last..., your next appearance, better said, in the middle is going to be the last of the legislature, and you still have two weeks to do something good for all the people who have been hit by this crisis. You spend your life talking about grievances, you do nothing else, but you should look into the mirror and see that the great aggravation that Catalans suffer is nothing other than that of their own incompetence. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.111.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.112.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Vice-President of the Government in place of the President of the Generality, today we are again here to follow up on the measures taken by the Government in the past weeks and to analyse the health, social and economic impact of these decisions. One more time, I begin to remember the victims of the Covid-19, their families, their friends, and to recognize the effort, the efforts of all the professionals who are still fighting in the front line against this disease. We are still far from being able to end the second wave of the pandemic, and we have the head placed on a possible third wave. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, The truth is that the virus's spread data has improved these past few days, with some onset, and so it looks like we're on the right track. So, let's keep everyone safe and all responsible. So let us start this month of disembarkation with cautious optimism, but also with fear and concern. Maybe it's a symptom of the moments we live in, full of doubts and uncertainties. At a time when governments had to deal with one of the most important challenges the world has faced in the past decades. And in the effort to overcome the pandemic, the government continues to count on and will always count on our support. I wanted us to start this month of disembark with cautious optimism, with fears and with concern, with optimism from prudence. Epidemiological data are improving, although very slowly and with some kind of increase. This is true both in the index of contagious as well as people in ICUs. Lowers the hospital pressure and, therefore, they are very hopeful that they encourage us to follow in the path of responsibility and prudence. This second one has already taken on tired, exhausted, and particularly the health professionals who carry months fighting in the front line against this pandemic. Citizenship has also made a huge effort. So let's keep the maximum responsibility because the risk of a continuous rebound feels there. Precise optimism also because we have to touch on the approval of the General Presuppositions of the State, progressive presuppositions that suppose an opportunity to arrive in Catalonia more than 24,000_million euros to start the social reconstruction and economic recovery of the country. More than 2,300_million in investments and transfers to Catalonia. Good assumptions we can't let go because they offer us the opportunity to look at the future with more security, with more hope and also with more ambition. Aware that we are at a very complicated time, this new starting point can allow us to move forward towards a more cohesive and fair society, and we want to do so in parallel with the recovery of economic growth. He spoke of « cautious optimism because we will also be tending the first cows to all of Spain in the month of generation. There is an agreement of the Interterritorial Health Council to determine priorities and vaccination mechanisms. In Catalonia, Councilwoman Vergés announced that 900,000 doses of vaccine would be sold from the first quarter of the year. But I told them to start this month too with fears, fear of a third wave. Because it is true that we have begun the descalation, but with figures more similar to those of the end of September than those of the month of June, and in September you said that we were in one – I say – "critically disabled. Well, in this march we will face Nadal's festivities and, therefore, the utmost caution of the citizenry. So much. But also the best preparation on the part of the government to have all the control mechanisms in place, to ensure that a possible third round does not take us back to the counter. We are concerned to read these days that the same trackers say that they managed the tracking system by Ferrovial and, I quote literally, "is of a brutal inefficiency. Therefore, the virus's containment will have to go through to strengthen and keep the surveillance system in good condition and track. I am also afraid that the health sector, the professionals, have not been able to have any rest and, therefore, are in worse condition to face a third wave. And I take this opportunity to remind you that we need more dialogue, more negotiation, more collaboration with health professionals. They'll get all our support and our recognizance. A support that has to do with salary conditions, contractual conditions, stability in working conditions, and that also requires technical and emotional support. We all agree that the work of health professionals has been precisely the factor that has helped us most to respond to this crisis. And now, from the point of view of politics, let us respond to this effort. Fear, too, that the most affected economic sectors, the autonomies, the trade, the restoration, the sports, the culture can not endure without some promised help that they do not just arrive. And, therefore, and please, more support, the maximum support to the affected sectors. Aware of the limitations and conscious that we will probably never have enough, but really some of the sectors did not have enough presence in a crisis that has affected them, and it is a crisis on which they have no sense of responsibility, but which is preventing them from obtaining and generating tickets. The Secretary of Public Health said the other day that if we had the help of France, we would not raise the restrictions. I don't know. What we do know is that the autonomous communities have more scope to establish stronger compensatory measures. There are autonomous communities that are targeting more aid to affected economic sectors than Catalonia. We are demanding this from us, but also the most representative economic and social agents of Catalonia and the same local world. It calls for a social dialogue and an urgent economic proposal to compensate the sectors affected by the crisis and for the government to respond to the need for a dialogue that has been put in place for Foment, Pimec, Commissions and UGT. He also told them that this month we seem to face him with concern, concern for the increase in the vulnerability of the heaviest and insufficient aid from the Government of the Generality. Vice President, only one of the four people who have the right to perceive the guaranteed income of citizenship actually perceives it, and this was already before the health crisis. From our point of view, your government is not acting as effectively as possible, nor is it using all the resources available to avoid leaving anyone behind. For the time being, he's back locked, in October, with more than 900 million euros in the box. We said this before the crisis and we are maintaining it now: during this time there has been no new proposal, provision or service that has substantially improved the life of a large part of Catalans and Catalans. The waiting lists continue to grow, we have a very high index of severe poverty, we continue to feel the community autonomously with the least social reversal of the last two years and what is more triganizing to reverse the detail. If we want to manage – that we want – the minimum vital ingredient, we can already spavilate to do it well. Concern also that, again, the Government has issued contradictory messages, this time on whether or not to hold elections on February 14. The same day the disenfranchised plan was announced, it was said that perhaps the elections could not be held. There can be no more flagrant contradiction in the same sentence. Concern also because in every statement of the Government, in every decision, the internal division of the executive is obvious, and ultimately it is the citizenry that suffers the consequences. We have a government that dissipates, seems to have no score and does not stop detonating. And even at the worst moment, they're not able to have a behavior at the height of their responsibility. And if that wasn't enough, opposition groups and citizens don't have enough information and truth. There is no evidence that transparency improves this respect. How is it possible to do so many press wheels and be so opaque? I let'm that' I put some examples there. Where are the epidemiological studies, health and civil protection recommendations that advise which is the best way to organize elections? Maybe we'll get ahold of each other and wait for her to meet up anxiously. What's the fate of the Covid fund? We believe that there is still a lack of information on who the presuppositional reprogramming was and who the concrete application of the extraordinary resources coming from the State was. And, therefore, we would be pleased that the government in this sense marked the step and avoid us having to insist on it. We want to know what these resources have concretely devoted themselves to, both for and from the State. Where is the audience of payments made to private health care for services offered during the pandemic? To find out if he's paid for it or not. How many resources have been devoted to improving epidemiological information systems? How many staff have we incorporated into the different health services and residences? Vice-President, you will understand that we want maximum information, maximum transparency, the most demanding retention of accounts, which is the only one that can generate the greatest confidence, which is what the citizens claim from us. Our parliamentary group has said this since the first moment: calyx and add effort, calyx and work together, calyx and co-operation between institutions. And it's especially at times like this that make a country effort, which involves acting with loyalty, firmness and responsibility. The attitude of the socialists during all these months of the assembly, of opposition to the Parliament of Catalonia and of the Government of Spain has been a responsible and loyal attitude, always with the offer of more extensive. And, on the other hand, we cannot say the same as the Government of the Generality, that the mass has often wanted to centrifugal responsibilities, elaborate heavy memorials and seek excuses. It is a classic of Catalan nationalism: it is always the fault of others. And you haven't stopped putting it in practice or in the toughest moments of the pandemic. Also today. Escotin, 329,675 workers were specially protected in September, with a cost of €449.1 million in social benefits. This past month, a total of 285,232 Catalan autonomes have rejected some kind of protection of social security, and from the rostrum the Government tells us that there has been no direct contribution from the Government of Spain to the autonomes. Look, don't tell lies, tell the truth. They may say, if they want, that up late and badly, that it's their usual excuse, but really the only government that's come late and it's barely theirs, with the aggravation that it got a lot later. And let's just say that what we want is that all that's done is we could have agreed before. I asked him before the corresponding question. We also wanted to have the foundations of a new covenant of salvation. President Tora often insisted, but you didn't settle down. It will have to be in the next legislature, hopefully with another government, who truly believes in the dialect, co-responsibility and loyalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.114.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, tell them what they want, but we are in a moment of descalation. That's how we all understand each other. Delicate moment, of complicated days, for the bridge, for the parties of Nadal, where socialization can re-shoot and where we are obviously responsible by everyone; no relaxation, because the consequences can be very hard, in aggravation of the economic crisis and in lives – in lives. But, as always, we insist on it: it is not only through the individual responsibility of the people who fall..., that we will get out of it. We need you to do everything else; from reinforcements not yet done enough – go, we don't know what happened – to the residences and the health system; to ensure an effective and correct tracking that didn't work in the descalation of the estuary, such as the outsourced part of Ferroser, and with a brave strategy of rapid tests, many, as much as any, to detect, to stop the spread of the virus, and with enough help that the people can shut down when they fall, do forty, without risk of losing the job, without risk of not having to fill the refrigerator or without risk of closing their business. We still have the feeling that the government doesn't do everything it can and what it does doesn't just do it right. And, therefore, we will come back to this plenary, to this debate about managing the crisis with proposals, with advice. Three: plan, spend and correct past errors. I'm on my way. Plan, because to avoid death, to prevent the economy from falling more and with it the living conditions of thousands of people, we need planning of the extraordinary expense; planning in the health system and public health conditions that we need; planning in which is the social protection system, such as strengthening it to have a real network so that no one falls, and planning in direct aids, that now fall, powerful, sufficient, because the maximum number of people and possible autonomies can hold the time and can be referred after without having had to close, because then it is much more complicated, if they had to close. And we do not see them planning, neither with us, with Parliament, with the sectors, nor with the main representatives of the entrepreneurs and the workers. The president of my parliamentary group also asked him this morning, Mr Aragonès, why they are not having a dialogue with the main employers and the main unions, who have made him a letter to claim them social dialogue. Look, it's a social dialogue that the state government has put in place the main tools that are effective so that the economy doesn't fall so much, or because not so many people fall: ERTOS, the vital minimum income or the increase in liquidity for businesses. And it is with political dialogue that the Government of the State has taken the most effective measures because it can be making policies so that people do not fall: the flexibility of the deficit, the Covid and now assumptions fund or a royal decree law on the issue of denunciations, which is about to be made. In Catalonia the political and social dialogue are missing. We talk about real dialog, not information, not information meetings, real dialog. Neither one of the measures has been consulted by Parliament before launching it, nor one. And the main business and work sectors are not planning with them either. We understand, therefore... Miri, that the situation must be overflowing, unexpectedly, uncertainly, but it's new now. It's not the first part of this crisis situation. We're wearing new months, and we've got one year ahead of us. You're a working government, and for the middle, there's a few choices, where there's... Go, there's a change of government. Therefore, everything is more necessary than ever..., first of all, because it is better to do things like this, but also because of the political circumstances in Catalonia, specific, it is more necessary than ever that everything is done based on planning from accords. Maybe they're distracting their internal sound, constant bars, or they just don't know more, but whatever it is, please, they're listening proactively. We may be right; we sure as hell are not right – we don't have all the information either – but we may be right, the ones we advise from the outside, from the outside, from the outside, from the inside, from the inside, from the inside, from the inside, from the inside. It is always much more intelligent, and often much more uncertain, any solution when part of collective intelligence. So, escort, they're coming out of his candy. Even for very complicated day-to-day management, they can be much easier to do from shared planning. And I set an example for them. We managed to ask the Department of Health to set and explain clear, few, but sufficient, indicators that would allow us to explain and share under what conditions we would have to take some restrictions or some others or relax. You yourself, Mr. Aragonès – you have put it in value today – this is..., you have finally given that predictability has been applied to uncertainty and is allowing them to manage better what is to come, what is to come now and what is to come. Why don't they do it for everything? With regard to aid to the sector, with respect to the social protection network, they are not here, they follow the point of inici, of constant improvisation. We have to wait every Tuesday to see what new help appears, without plan or concert. There's no planning, we don't know what reason they answer. It's chaotic, for short, and for short, these aids. I listen to those who make proposals and to those who offer advice, plan, spend, spend whatever it takes. Second advice, wasteful, Mr. Aragones. It is not clear why the government's forecast is to close the 2020 exercise with a deficit between 0.6 and 0.7_per_cent. Why do they want to close 2020 with the same deficit as 2019? I said the secretary of economics, Natalia Mas. Circumstances are quite different. We are facing a health crisis, social crisis, economic crisis, brutal and, moreover, they have no limit of disability. The Government of the State has suspended the deficit targets and the expenditure rule. It's not just that they haven't created an effective new social measure to deal with the emergence, but... let me set them an example of yesterday itself. Yesterday they approved an extension for the coming year of the social services program contract, with an increment of 3_per_cent. The attendance of basic social services is increasing at least between 15 and 25 per cent at any meeting in Catalonia. There is no more to say: 25_per_cent, 3_per_cent. No, there is more to it, because it is that, moreover, the increase that they make– 7,3_million euros more for the coming year– is 7,3_million euros more respect to what was the contract program for this year or respect to what it ended up feeling? Because during this year it has increased by 10_million euros from Covid funds of the State. So, for the year that's coming, are they increasing or are they shrinking? And I'd like you to answer that question, Mr. Aragonès. Are these €7.3 million on the programme contract more than 10 million that have increased this year or not? Is it that they think that the coming year there is no social crisis to attend to our society? Is this not even a good way to spend money on lime at these times? Look, we don't just tell the commons, we're obsessed with what it's spent, it's the Pimec tells them, the most affected sectors tell them, the State, the European Union, and the International Monetary Fund recommends them. The third council, rectifier. In order not to have a third wave of heavy post-Nadal impact or even during the Nadal, we call, as I said, responsibility on the part of everyone, but also that the system works to detect, to control, to prevent there from being a Community infection again is. Therefore, I do not fall back into the mistakes of the previous descalada. U: They make the reinforcements announced to primary attention and public health, which we still don't know who did it. How much... – see if we get out today – how much of the staff who said they would put in primary care – of the last few months have made various announcements – how much have they put in? How many of the 1,800 people who said they'd be able to strengthen their homes are already in their possession? How many of the 370 infirmaries for these same centres have been incorporated? This was announced in July – July. Reticiquin also in not continuing to make part of the tracking from the company Ferroser. Look, tracking is one of the key points for pandemic control. It has been key to all countries, and, therefore, it cannot – it cannot – leave this in the hands of those who do not guarantee its correct functioning. And I'm saying this in light words, because I could tell you more about the roughness: it hasn't been working well and it's still not working well, and the workers of this service are still reporting it, and the workers of the rest of the healthcare system are still telling us that it doesn't work. I'm not going back to this mistake, please. They continue to negotiate with the outsourced health transport sector, which is in the middle of an undefined wave; more than fifty days ago they are in an indefinite wave. They follow and negotiate a solution. I don't pay the private the one that was paid in the first round – that we certainly don't know how much it paid, it would also be good if we were cleared up. And one last rectification recommendation, corrections: please – please – bring the release of this government, please. I stop publicly contradicting myself day yes day also with the government. The management of this crisis must pass over the electoral games they have between the two forces of this government. And the last example is the end of today's day – today's day – in this debate. Mrs. Budo, today you see us with the occurrence of the Mede funds again. I suppose it's inspired by Mr. Tremosa, who must have missed the black men controlling Europe's economy. Look, the Mede funds are a credit conditioned with worse conditions than that which is being used by the European Fund State, which are the Next Generation funds, which are allowing there to be, among other things – today's data – more than 13,000_million euros spent on ERTOS in the State, that there are 200,000 Catalans and Catalans who are not greying the lists of the time in Catalonia, that is to say, that is, that there is a point, because there are these ERTOS. But it's that, besides, Mrs. Budo, that I didn't buy it there or his economic vice president, that he doesn't agree with the Mede funds either. Stop happening, enough of the political fissure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.115.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.116.0	...of austerity. Neither the extremes of the – I finish, President – neoconvergents, who once again want black men here, nor that of the Republican Left, who believe that with a guany garrepa management in prestige and voting of convergent space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.117.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.118.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies; counselors, advisers. On June 25, 2018, Vice President Aragonès, and Economic Advisor, appeared for the first time in his parliament. He warned us that the effects of the 2008 crisis still persisted: a long-term perspective, job insecurity, poverty, social exclusion. Despite the false expectations of economic recovery that were expressed by different views on the basis of macroeconomic data, during the course of the legislature and before the pandemic, the taxes of the poor, of the poor wage earner, of the poor severe material, did not cease to grow. On March 14, 2020, the first Royal decree declaring the state of alarm was passed. Eight months have passed and days have passed since Covid-19 and restrictive measures and the limitation of social life are part of our daily life. On March 16, 2020, Iolanda Fresnillo, in an article published to La Directa, « Coronavirus and the new crisis of capitalism, claimed that the Covid-19, apart from having had huge consequences on the productive and reproductive economy, acted as a trigger, a trigger, of a deeper crisis than it had been for some time, as institutions like the International Monetary Fund have warned. When the effects of the previous crisis have not yet disappeared, the Covid-19 appears as a consequence and triggering the umpteenth crisis of a system based on inequalities and which today continues to cause suffering to thousands of families. The data speak for themselves: only in the first week of the pandemic the number of workers affected by an ERTO was almost 250,000 people and at the end of March it reached 500,000 people. Today in Catalonia 484,000 people are at the moment, a 24-percent more than the year passed on this same date. As the vice president said, behind the ashtrays, so there's emptiness. Summary, because eight months and days have passed: difficult days, state of alarm, remaining stumbling blocks, confinements; errors, but also learnings. The fever and fragility of the economic fabric and of a fragmented productive structure, with more than 500,000 people in their own right, the lack of resilience before the pandemic of an economic model based on historically privileged sectors based on informal work, temporality and precariousness, such as tourism, the real estate sector or automotive. The inability to obtain health materials in the midst of the pandemic as a result of the dependence of international trade, which is the result of economic policies that have prioritized the attraction of international capital. The incapacity of private sanitation to cope with the health emergency. We also have after that housing is a right and not a commodity, and that it is essential to live with dignity. The importance of valuing the essential jobs for life, these sectors that we call essential, which are not essential, valued: socio-health, cleanness, trade, distribution, agricultural or textile production. In Nancy Fraser's words, we have after that no society that systematically weakens social reproduction can endure mass. And last but not least, we are after, as Joan Benach tells us in an article published in Critic, that the coronavirus is a very strong threat to the poorest barrels and that the pandemic is related to the global alteration of ecosystems associated with the eco-social and climate crisis. Eight months and days later, when the consequences have been bad for most people, but when they have also given us time to think, to read, to reflect, to debate. And now, leaving behind the understandable improvisation of the first months, such as the restrictive measures, the plan for Nadal that you have announced yourself, or these massive cracks, come accompanied by social measures, support measures – as the Vice President said – and a model change of relationships that govern us, above all by a change of relationships that govern us, because in this way we can face the situation in a long term. We can make decisions like society, not just from the government or parliament. It is up to us to listen from humility and to be aware of the limits of these institutions. She told the Presidency Counsellor that we're doing well, that people are doing well. But not everyone can do just as well because not everyone has just as much coverage for their needs. There are a lot of people who have to go with public transport to work every day because they are not teleballing, and public transport has not increased enough frequency because they can be secure throughout the population. He talked about the binomial health and economy, and in this binomial always ends up losing the working class and also people's lives. We need to make precise decisions listening to everyone, political, social and cultural actors, to increase popular and social power and change to a new cycle. And if we share this analysis, which I believe we share, and the need for new spaces of cooperation and co-responsibility in the design of these solutions for an economic and social transformation, as we call for various social, trade union and popular movements and of the economic and academic world, then what we can do is to seek a collective solution. Ecological movements: Ecologists in Action, Engineers Sense Frontiers, Fridays for Future, Aigua es Vida, the ODG, OMAL, feminist movements and LGTBI, anti-feixist and anti-racist movement, trade union forces, autonomous workers, bombers, taxi drivers, neteja workers, kelly workers, health care workers in Lluta, tides, Rebel·lió Primària, vénial movement, associations of life with so much tradition to our society, taxi drivers, estabadores, health care workers in Lluta, tides, Rebel·lió Primària, vénénal movement, social associations with so much tradition to our society, educational community, mobility services in Lluta, medical services in the area, medical services in the area, medical services in the area, medical services in the area, medical services in the area Many already see them asking for a cycle change and a new postcoronavirus model. The academic world does that, too. A concrete example, for example, would be the Pact for Collective Salvation, Economic Democracy and Environmental Justice, among plural economic agents in which precisely we place ourselves to participate Ecat. We must work with the best that a country has, which in the end is its people, the organized people that always, but even more in a time of pandemic, has been the best instrument of resistance, of cohesion, of solidarity to deal precisely with this situation. We have a determined commitment to health, social, educational and curative models that prioritize property and public management accompanied by the dignity of the quality of service, but also by the working conditions of these workers who sustain life. To defend the social function of housing and to expand the public housing park by mixing the expropriations of the empty floors that have the benches, because every day there are families on the street while the benches have thousands of empty dwellings to speculate. A product and consumption model based on ecological transformation, in a bet to easily and effectively strengthen local agricultural production, for example, by mediating the public purchase of food to supply residences, groceries or hospitals. Strategies for strengthening and tightening self-employment and small and medium-sized enterprises, which comply with 80_percent of our country's production fabric and practically 60_percent of the value added of the economic structure – an economy, in short, planned–, to listen to the needs of local ecosystems, sharing tools and infrastructures in the service of the community. To decide collectively which is the economic activity that is attractive to our country; depending on what? Depending on what it brings to our economy, what it brings to the environmental level, what it brings to the social level, what it brings to the level of jobs of quality and coverage of collective needs, in contrast to an economy based on competitiveness and the accumulation of benefits. Vice-President, you spoke of democratic compromises, co-responsibility, solidarity before anxiety, persecution and denial, of doing everything in our hands to preserve life. In this first appearance, which we refer to at the beginning of the intervention, you said that "the Catalans are what the majority of Catalans want to be and, therefore, the future of our people depends on how this economic, health and environmental crisis is faced. Uncertainty, we know, is so great that we can only face it from collective intelligence. The complexity of the moment is so profound that new complex political articulations fall; governments cannot think that they will be able to face this uncertainty and complexity; political parties occupying institutional spaces will not be able to face the great health, social, economic and environmental challenges that arise; institutions must be able to be tools, and all administrative and institutional resources must be subject to popular and social power. All the political, social, economic and transformative energies that exist in our society must be able to conjure them up, to confluence them into a new institutionality: political proposals of the left, which draw a horizon of hope, of social change, of defense of the popular classes, of social solidarity, of redistribution of wealth, of defense of the public services, a new economic model post-capitalist, post-coronavirus, economic democracy, ecological transition with social justice, ecosocialism, ecofeminism, food sovereignty, industrial, technological, residential, cultural, energy... In short, alternatives materials that come out to the rights and needs of the popular and working majority of our country and that draw the foundations of a new society. To talk about economic democracy also means to talk about anti-capitalist material policies, about sovereignty, which today is the capacity of collective, political and social self-determination and economic democratisation. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] economics. And I finished, President. It must have enough social, economic and political power to discipline capitalism and subdue private empires to general interest and common good. That's republicanism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.119.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of deputy Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.120.0	Well, thank you very much. First of all, as always in these appearances, convey an emotional record to the victims of the Covid, support and condolences to their families, support also the health professionals and the rest of the professionals who are fighting the pandemic, and also a record and support the most disadvantaged collectivities, in this case, for the economic crisis resulting from this. Five points respect the last appearance we had here in Parliament. First, we insist that economics and salvation must be compatible if things are to be done well. They're talking to you today, and it's good that they're doing it, watching and tracking. At the beginning they did not talk much about this subject; they overshadowed this so decisive issue – that, of course, other places prioritized and made them better – by laying down certain economic sectors, such as the ocean and restoration. And we ask them not to make the same mistake again if at some point the figures are complicated, which could pass perfectly. Then I'll develop this idea in point 4. Two. The compensatory aids announced or not arrived – and you are announcing them in some cases, Mr Aragonès, with a certain frivolity, because they have not yet arrived – or they are manifestly insufficient. The question of the ridiculous use of self-help has not yet, in absolute terms, been repeated neither in economic terms nor in the methodology, which was, I insist, not only ridiculous but profoundly unfair. There are other cases, such as the 40_million dedicated to restoration and aesthetics, which are clearly insufficient. You say they don't have any money, but Catalans see how they continue to make announcements of spending in embassies, for example. Or much has been said – and has not only political connotations – about the space agency. So much good this space agency began to give positive news of innovation and added value – I would be the first to applaud – but the first news it has given are complaints by discretion or nepotism in staff selection. And I'm talking about structural personnel, not scientists. Therefore, this theory that I expressed here, which had the feeling that more than a space agency was a space agency, of the moment – of the moment – is what it seems. And, like a lot of money has been allocated, I don't know if it's the best time to spend money on these things, when, I insist, after they say they don't have money to help them, and, in the case of restoration and aesthetics, they talk about 40_million. Three. I'm still on the subject of help, oci and children's parks. I know there are some exceptions – they're serious, on a one-off basis, six thousand for the park and nine thousand for the music bars. It's a cipher that, taking into account the erosion of their business, is absolutely ridiculous. I, therefore, have something to do. I insist, they have a presupposition. You'll always say... you'll make a demand speech. They do whatever they want, but they have to manage reality, not utopia. I, therefore, manage reality. And they have to prioritize in times of pandemic. And they're not doing it. You're obvious. And I've given some examples before. Lleure educated. On November 10 they announced 20_millions. If it is necessary to correct me after you and I will not have any type of inconvenience to rectify it, but for the time being the call has not been made. And you announced it on November 10th. It's been a few days, huh? This must be done quickly. Therefore – I add another element – either they do not arrive, or they are insufficient, or after the announcement is not being managed very quickly, not only the payment, is that even the whole call. Four. So he was commenting on digging into the tracking and surveillance. While you... And I celebrate, I insist, that they tend to delve into this question, which gives results. Expand the opening plan. Why? Because in the same way that no cause-effect relationship has been demonstrated negative, round, scientific, clear between these areas of the ocean and restoration and the increase of the contagious – because we have other examples – in which a cause-effect relationship has indeed been demonstrated, in this case, positive is in tracking and vigilance. So if things get complicated, I insist, they have two options. I'm making this balance. Why am I saying that? Because, to the extent possible, it revisits timetables and municipal confinements. I say that because the professionals have invested in prevention; they are the first interested ones who do not tank them for this reason. They have invested it, in many cases. And, therefore, they are responsible. And signyalin. It was explained very well: the citizenry, when it suits them. When the decks, the city has to be directed for you, and when the decks and it's time for responsibilities, you turn the deck and the fault is for the city. Home, that's cheating on the loner, in this case, huh? Mr. Aragones. Therefore, what remains very clear is that these economic sectors would not be able to withstand another closure. And it has been shown that things can be done in a radically different way, worth the redundancy. And that leads me to the point. Instead of trying to weaken Madrid, apostin to strengthen Catalonia. I think it's pretty obvious. Before, at the control session, I think the debate has become clear. Among other things because there is an argument that is used from the left – not the whole left, but part of the left – when you say to "another world is possible, isn't it? I always say that utopia never comes up but the present is loaded, right? We are more modest, and what we say is that another way of doing it today – today, we don't have great utopias – is possible. You, the question... because, obviously, in Madrid, there are things that at first they themselves recognized that they didn't work, and they recognized it at an open grave, that is, without any kind of problem. But I invite you not to raise these debates in terms of identity, as if it were a Barça-Madrid. That is to say, there has come a time when some positive things have been done in Madrid and other autonomous communities... That is not what the People's Party is saying; that is a lot of people are saying – the other day I was talking about the Lords Oriol Mitjà and Lord Canadell, a little suspicious of being the PP. And then, when this comes out, you have the time to say – it is that I read it – that your statements respond, I quote textually – it is not your statement, Mr Aragonès, but it is of people, of social networks, of their ideological and partisan background – to personal motivations and grudges. Home, let's see..., no; that's to say, there are many Catalans of all ideologies who at first look at the management of Madrid in one way and now look at it from another. In concrete measures. I'm not saying... because here we have a problem that's not exactly the same. And that has to be done. But there are no sectarians: those things that work, not only from Madrid but from any other autonomous community, grab them; they don't have self-explanation, they don't have it, because here we're not talking about four votes, we're talking about being able to improve things. Because, if not, what will happen..., so if they are already saying that the Lords Canadell and Oriol Mitjà, therefore, are a handful of gruesome botiflers, there will come a time when there will be no Catalan that does not follow it – there will be no Catalan that does not follow it, won't there? Therefore, be generous, remain objective at the time of management, have an open look at the experiences that work to rule out those that are not working, and do not think of an electoral key, in their dealings with their partners, do not think about it – do not think about it – among other things because this will harm everyone, and me, that electorally the perjury, as you may imagine, worries me little, but that the people end up patenting the consequences of their dealings indeed worries me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.121.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of Deputy Sergi Sabrià, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.122.0	Good afternoon – good morning. Thank you, Vice-President of Parliament. Vice President, advisors, deputies, deputies and all the people who are following us, we are already carrying a few days of re-opening, and, despite the fact that it is still small, shops, bars, restaurants and most of the sectors affected by the restrictions have been able to start grabbing a little bit of air. We are, therefore, at the heart of this reopening plan which could be applied thanks to the good data obtained for the measures taken by the Government so far. I believe that today we can say, and to do so without inwards and fully convinced, that the management that has taken place from the government of this second year has been a complete success. But we know the virus, we know it's not defeated, and if we're not careful, and if we're not every day, if we're not responsible in these spaces of freedom and openness that we already have today, we'll go back another time back. And this could be absolutely defined for some sectors. We've got to stay the way we are. And it's in our hands; it's in our hands, in each of us. And I think the data from the past few hours should serve as a warning. In any case, if the activity could be restarted as it has been after several weeks of restrictions, it is because the measures decreed have worked, because the Health Department's proposals have gone well. I can't put the guard down. But they worked. Despite the sound, despite the demagoguery that we have to feel once more, thanks to the measures of the government, but also to the responsible behavior of all and each of the citizens of this country, the crow has been able to fall, at a time remembering, at a time when other areas have not managed, reducing all the parameters and avoiding this col·lapse as much as we care about the health system. But now we have to keep working to keep it going. Things have gone well. And today we see how, despite some criticism, analyzing, anticipating, and being blunt has rewards. From Catalonia we have had to make very difficult decisions, decisions that have not always been well understood for everyone, decisions involving important sacrifices for sectors of our people. All these difficult decisions had as their object, as always – as always – to save the maximum number of lives. This is and will always be our priority. And we think these sacrifices were worth it. Thanks to the immense effort of our public health, a sanitation that we must remember is underfunded, that it does not have the resources it deserves, and with professionals tired but of an enormous human and technical quality, Catalonia has been, this second time, the area of the State with the least deaths per inhabitant, together with the Canaries. Thanks to the sacrifices of the restaurateurs, of the professionals of culture, of the clinics of aesthetics; thanks to the limitations of mobility and to the restrictions that we have imposed, we have saved many lives; we have saved lives and we have managed to keep the schools open. And that's what we have to remember every time, because that's also a success of all. We must appreciate the efforts of everyone, of health professionals, of educational professionals and of all the people in general. We may not have shut down the restoration as Madrid did, but it is also true that we have studies that tell us that today we can have four times as many deaths as we have in this second year, and thanks to everyone's sacrifices – thanks to everyone's sacrifices – has not passed. And that's not the only success we've achieved. I said it and I say it again, and I think we have to repeat it every time: the management of the schools is exemplary. In July there were many pressures, there were many doubts, and the same schools – and after weeks of work, the management of everything folded has been exemplary – they are safe spaces and they work perfectly. The government analyzed the situation, planned, and set aside a plan to keep the schools as safe as possible for the infants and also for the teachers who gave security to parents and the seas and relieved the situation that would have to be with children and children at home, at a time of confinement, and allowed them to continue with their training. And now the challenge is to keep the virus on track all winter. The risk of the third wave is always latent and we are all very aware of it. Therefore, as far as precautions are concerned, we try to place each of us our grit for Nadal, because the very Nadal we can all be at the table and contribute collectively to this day's fight against the virus. We must all be aware that today we do not have the resources of a state and that the state does not work for the citizens of Catalonia, and that it has been unable to engage in the management of this second issue as all European states have done. It is obvious that this also conditions our decisions at the time of making economic survival and fighting against the virus compatible. All decisions always seek this balance. The European states have allowed themselves to keep the closure to change great aids, which in Catalonia, despite the fact that we generate sufficient resources, as a result of the fiscal deficit we have, we do not have them and we cannot dedicate them to helping the people of our country. And we can never forget this situation when we assess and criticize the administration of the Government of the Generality. And that's why we know and remember every time independence is the only viable option if we want Catalonia to get sprung. And in this pandemic it makes us see it another time every day. Unfortunately, the abandonment of the Spanish Government and the limitation of resources of the Government of the Generality, despite the fact that the people of our country generate them, demonstrates to us, even more, the need and urgency of independence as the only viable option to work for truth and help our people, to have sufficient resources and tools to pull this country forward. And despite these huge limitations, the Government of Catalonia is leaving its skin to help as much as possible the people of our country who suffer every day as a consequence of the pandemic. And it's true that things don't always turn out as well as we want and I'm sure that here, as they always do, mistakes are made, but it's also that this government is doing a lot of things well and, as we say, the opening of schools is not an example, or the control and how the crow fell from the second wave, too. And now it's time to keep working and do it, above all, from an economic point of view, knowing that, sadly, everything that we do, the one that will be at our bottom will continue to be insufficient. We have the resources that we have and we'll put everything we can, even though it's poor, because we know that today's reception is reversal and never, ever, ever austerity. The State has the resources and is doing nothing in this second case. Although she does have the resources, she does get her hands full. We, despite the limitations we have, not only economics but also legal, are covering the holes of a state that doesn't do the job and so we can't go on. We denounce, once more, that the State, the Government of the State, is leaving the people of this country behind and we demand, once again, a rescue plan. They're doing it to all, to all, to all European countries. Call for direct help and reduce the impact of taxes on self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises. See, why do we want a close state? To serve and to help our people, not to look out for another gang. And we're not talking about 2021; we're talking about today and now. This situation reinforces us even more in our independent convictions, because while we do not get the Catalan republic we want, so that the State is laying the piles. And while we're fighting the virus, we need to start laying the foundations for reconstruction. And this is a job that can't wait either. This is a job we have to do in parallel. We are clear that the outcome of the crisis caused by the coronavirus will determine the future of this country at all levels. What we do today determines, absolutely, what tomorrow's Catalonia will be like. And that is why it is essential that we take advantage of this stage of reconstruction, which will start in the next few months, to build the foundations of the Catalan Republic for which we work, the society and the country we want. We cannot hear the country's socio-economic reconstruction agenda without the republican agenda. Meanwhile, I need to take advantage of all the tools and resources in our abyss to help the people of this country. Because one thing is very clear: for this new crisis... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The speaker addresses the first vice president.]] It's a little complicated, Mr. Costa. Thank you. We cannot hear the socio-economic reconstruction agenda of the country without the republican agenda and, meanwhile, it is necessary to take advantage of all the instruments and resources in our abyss to help the people of this country. Because one thing is very clear: this new crisis is not worth the old austerity receipts. We're not here to retail, like there are other girls before. From the 2008 crisis we tried to get out applying austerity measures and details from which we have not yet recovered. This can't happen again now, no matter what. The details of 2008 put at risk, for example, our public health system, the same public health system that today has saved us all from the catastrophe. We can bet and finance better than ever this system of salvation. That's exactly the opposite: investing in it, injecting money into the economy, even though it's a deficit, and that's what we'll do from all the institutions where we're here Republican Left. We represent a new way of doing the things that have been done so far. After I could do the different things. We never want the receptions of Boi Ruiz or Artur Mas for public salvation. We are here to help the people and we want to bet to reinforce the maximum, always, the public services, our public services, which have many shortcomings and in this situation have been on the rise. The people have been responsible and sacrificed, and now it is when it comes to the institutions that are on the rise, providing the resources needed to reengage the economy and get out of this crisis stronger, with better public services, more competitive and more resilient than before. Now we're all at the people's side. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.123.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the turn of the Juntas Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.124.0	President, advisors, advisors, members of the government, deputies, deputies, as always, we want to start this intervention with a high record for all families, for all friends, all people who have suffered victims and family affected by the Covid and, moreover, to wish a speedy recovery to all people who can..., and citizens who can suffer this disease. We would also like to thank the government's commitment to compare every fifteen days in this House for its management of the pandemic and the economic and social consequences that lie ahead. It is an act of transparency before an exceptional situation that we have to evaluate and oblige ourselves to take..., a context that obliges us to take complex measures and that involves a restriction of rights and freedoms. We would already like all the governments, and even the government of the Spanish State, to attend every fifteen days to give explanations about their actions, or not, before the Covid. We're in a situation where we can't lower our guard and we need to act responsibly. If we compare the figures of the last two weeks with the current data, we see that we cannot relax. They can't lower the guard, because certainly some indicators go down. The risk of rebound was 370 to 201. The 2,400 patients admitted, now there are about 1,718 and 547 patients admitted to ICUs, has decreased to 454. And yet, the continuing care pressure is high and the evolution of the Rt is still worrying and in the last few days it has risen from 0.78 to 0.84. I think all the parliamentary groups have asked for it. And we, as it cannot be otherwise, believe that we must congratulate ourselves on this parliamentary consensus that, in this sense, it is necessary to make a call to the individual and collective compromise, because it involves all of us, it concerns all of us. A person's individual attitude affects the company's joint venture and this pandemic situation has reinforced it and made us more aware of this situation. The government, parliamentary groups, civil society, citizens, every citizen in their field must act with the utmost responsibility, because of the individual responsibility of each citizen for the common good. Because we can't back down, that's not an option. It would be devastating that the narrow and low balance between health and economy is shattered. We need to save lives, all lives, and that's why the government is taking the necessary steps to get it out of the way. Life before everything and before any other consideration, cannot be in any other way. But we also need to be aware that without an economy there will be no life either. People want and need to work. Catalonia is a country of work and effort culture; it forms part of our DNA, of Catalans and Catalans. We are a country of small and medium-sized enterprises, of commerce, of entrepreneurs, of people who are happy raising the blind every day. We cannot bring the country to ruin or misery. On account of us, all of us, with complicity, with understanding, we can only overcome this evil and this situation that affects the jointness of our society. And, in this sense, the Government of the Generality continues to devote all its efforts and resources to power and cope with the bust of this situation – even though they are few – to combat a pandemic and the social economic effects as we currently have. Clearly, fighting this pandemic requires a lot of resources. We've got a few, we've got all of them, but they always need more. As well, it has to act on clear premises, as the members of the government have expressed very well and that together for Catalonia we have always defended from a good start: prevention, forecasting, balance between health and economy, as we have said, and the financing of the families worst affected by this economic crisis for the sectors that are most affected by their lives. In the field of prevention, and from his last appearance, in the field of prevention, and in his last appearance in this hemisphere, the government has intensified the massive cracks. It was a clearly claimed line that, at this time, is more necessary than ever. Thirty thousand people have been made during the last week and will continue at least for the next few weeks. As such, the Executive has incorporated five hundred professional supporters into the spread detection trail. And, at times, the government is already working on a vaccination strategy and has bought 10_million gypsies so they can start vaccinating the city. We are convinced that we will be prepared in terms of logistics, storage, distribution, priority criteria, vaccine records, among others. In the field of forecasting, epidemiological control has allowed the sectors of the hostelry, culture and sport to resume their activities, even though it is not in their totality, but they have been able to resume this activity taking into account that the re-opening plan decreed for the Process and which determines that the entry to the second stage may be from the second stage, if the data so permit. And in the area of finance, the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge has set aside a €13_million incentive programme to boost the conversion of the automotive sector. It should be remembered that this sector generates 143,000 jobs in Catalonia, from direct and indirect jobs, and an invoice of 23,800_million euros, a xifra that represents 10_percent of the country's GDP. In addition, we have learned that the micro and small business help line of the same Department of Business and Knowledge is delivering results and has helped to maintain more than 9,600 jobs indefinitely. Celebrate it. Thus, the Government has already set aside the self-register to bring back malfunctions in the docking of aid for almost one month, and thirty thousand people who can benefit, who have already registered. This goes for resources, it goes for the need for resources. I was warned by Dr. Argimon himself, who recognized us and warned that if we could pay the aid and keep the necessary resources – resources that Catalonia has for another band –, surely the Government, the Generality, the joint venture of the society would have to face with a different position the measures that are taking from this point of view by the Government and that obliges us to pandemic and its situation, and the situation of the pandemic. So this is about resources. And we will not fail to put on the table the need to have more resources, all the resources, all the resources that Catalonia generates, that generate Catalans and Catalans with their efforts, with their work, and that they are close to us, and that now there can be no excuse because they are not at the disposal of the welfare and salvation of most Catalans and Catalans. We already know that some of the members of this chamber – and we've felt them before – get them wrong in their ears when they hear of a fiscal deficit. If we dispose of the 16,000_million annuals that go to Madrid and do not return, what could be the benefits to vulnerable families? What could be the help for the business that they had to close during a few months their activities or that they could only partially reopen? How much money could we spend on strengthening the health system and hiring more professionals? The problem is not fiscal dumping in Madrid, the problem is the fiscal deficit that affects all of Catalonia and that affects Catalans and Catalans. It's 16,000 million euros that go out every year and don't come back. In order to stop a fiscal dumping it is not necessary to accept a financed LOAPA, it is only necessary to accept that the fiscal deficit in Catalonia is reduced and that the calamities of Catalans, the money of Catalans, are left in Catalonia and not in Marxine. And we could see with this crisis that we need to have the tools of a state. This crisis has made it very obvious. It has been evident in all stages of the government, that Catalonia needs and requires tools from a state. But we also need to have a state that doesn't run counter to the current situation, because it is very damaging to our citizens. Look, I'll give you three recent examples. We have seen that the Spanish State is against the application of the state of alarm, does not address teletreball, nor the subsidy for parents and mothers who have children in quarantine; nor does it contemplate any measure of economic fall, such as fiscal measures supporting business activity, or direct subsidisation lines for businesses, or exemptions or moratoria of social security payments, for example. We have seen that the Spanish State is against us with the way in which it wants to manage European foundations. While France and Italy have chosen to create commissions of independent experts to select the projects they will be able to choose from, Moncloa has chosen the single command and Moncloa will decide on a discretionary basis how to distribute these community aids. This can only wish for a capital failure. We have experience. At this time, Catalonia has already detected more than two hundred great innovative projects to present itself there, and it would be strange if we did not see or vote. And we've also seen how the Spanish State is countering us with its inability to resort to debt. The President's Counsellor said that the Spanish Government is charging 95 % of the taxes of all Catalans and Catalans to access the credit lines– of the SURE, the Mede, the European Central Bank, the purchase of public debt – at zero interest rates. In turn, Catalonia has no debt capacity, as it lost it in 2012 with the Automated Liquidity Fund, and the most progressive government in history has yet to recover it. We have said this before and I repeat: without economy there is no life, and the State does not help. I'm done. The Spanish State isn't even expecting it, but we won't be left with our arms open. We will continue to defend solvency and independence. Solvency must be necessary to act with rigour and responsibility to manage a situation without precedents of health, economic and social crisis, but also for independence. The two, solvency and independence, are two cares of the same coin to work for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, to build a better country, with better welfare, with more progress, with more democracy and more freedom. Thank you all very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. The representatives of parliamentary groups and sub-groups have once spoken, the Vice-President of the Government may speak, if he wishes. [[Pause.]] Therefore, the Vice President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.126.0	All right, thank you very much. Vice-President of Parliament, Councillor and Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, well, it is obvious that before such a complicated situation, we do what the Government does, be criticized for the opposition of this chamber. But we take the criticisms as a stimulus to keep getting better, to keep learning. In short, because all this learning has to be at the service of the citizenry. Because before this pandemic, I think that all folds, government and opposition, we need to have the most humility and empathy, and I think that this is the attitude we have to face. Obviously, I will take advantage of the opportunity given to us to be able, therefore, to answer, to matise, to provide information to some of the questions raised by the parliamentary groups, starting with Ciutadans, who has made a very focused criticism, well, on the political arguments that we always feel on the part of Ciutadans. Honestly, I think I've found myself missing the alternatives, the proposals, that other groups have made. Other groups have made proposals, you haven't made any. They have focused on criticism without explaining any other alternative. They've said a few things I think I need to brush up. One, no: you spoke of Catalonia as the country. Therefore, welcome the consent of this Parliament. We've already taken a very important step. Therefore, I am pleased that you, therefore, regard Catalonia as a country... [[Funnel veils]] Like so many Catalans and Catalans. You ask to move forward in the re-opening. Miri, the opening trams will be moving forward according to epidemiological data. And with this we must be extremely careful, and we do not want to take false steps – we do not want to take false steps. And, in fact, we'd be very careful with the data, obviously, for every time you get the chance of these fourteen days to get past the tram. And I think you need to look at the health data. We're not like Juny – we're not like Juny. We start reopening with an epidemiological situation of fragile balances, and we must continue to maintain this fragile balance. And we also do that because there is exhaustion in many economic sectors, obviously, and finding this balance is very difficult. But don't ask us to speed up, if the epidemiological situation doesn't recommend this acceleration. We will always follow – always – the epidemiological criteria. We have them, they're known: if the Rt is more than 0.90, keep the tram; if it's up 1, not back; if it's under 0.90, it's moving on the tram. And the same, equivalent to hospital admissions. So... And that's transparent. And that must also encourage us all to commit ourselves to the maximum in terms of our individual and collective responsibility. You spoke of Catalonia as a hell of an identity. So if Catalonia was an identity hell... When you refer to it from the point of view of economic dynamism, you say: « Catalonia is an identity hell and therefore we are damaging the country's economy. So I don't know any identity hell that concentrates 32_percent of multinational affiliates in a state, when it's only 16_percent of population and 19_percent of GDP; 19_percent of GDP, 32_percent of multinational affiliates in the state, with INE statistics – because, as you too believe Idecat, I serve the National Institute of Statistics – 32_percent of multinational affiliates in the Spanish state hold their own in Catalonia. So, go, I don't know very well, heaven and hell, as you interpret, we may have to reconnect the Dante and Petrarch. And then you say we take it all out of the city's responsibility. We have clearly explained that citizen responsibility is more of a part of the health system activity, preventive and reactive, that is, the cracks that we are doing, the whole detection part and the increase in hospital capacity. And the cost, obviously, of economic support measures. He made a proposal and I wanted to look at it to learn. You said: « Castella i Lleó, with a presupposition of 10,000_million, therefore, a third of the presupposition of Catalonia, has donated 290_million euros in aid. Well, we need to, because I wanted to look at it to learn, to improve. Of these 290_million euros in aid, 271 are credited or endorsed for holding credits, and only 19 are grants. And we have the companies, which, especially when we talk..., precisely why we talk to the sectors and say: "Listen, how can we best use the way to help you? And they say to us: "Do not believe, because we are in debt. What we need is direct help, come on, they say, huh? Allow me to express myself. And that's what we did. Only in the catering sector and we did 40, plus 50, plus 19, 109_million since October 15th in aid that are being implemented and executed. So, well, anyway, like you're the only proposal you've made, I've wanted to look at it and I think it's pretty matisable. I would like to remind you that, with three times as much pressure, the Catalan Institute of Finance has done five times as many downstream and credit measures. I therefore believe that what is important now are direct aid to the sectors. Because it's the... Go, when I talk to entrepreneurs, it's what they say to me: "Listen to me, don't give me any more credit, because I won't be able to pay you. And I want to maintain the solvency of my business. And thanks for the endorsements, thanks for everything, but what we need is direct help. That's what we're trying to do. The Socialist Party has spoken of cautious optimism – I agree – and has asked us for the best preparation. And in this sense, above all here, in this sense, I would like to point out: in detection we continued the massive cracks that had already been made during the month of September. I want to remember: the Florida bar of the Hospital, which was one of the areas of this country where we had a continuous high level of infection during the month of July and August, which cost a lot to lower. And, obviously, it teaches us that also, at certain times or at many times in the pandemic, the situation of contagion has much to see with the ability of winging and, therefore, with the economic capacity. But there we made massive cracks, we followed it also before the second wave. Obviously, at a time when the crow is being shot, what you have to do is a strategy of mitigation, so measures that reduce social interaction. And, as soon as it starts to go down, we'll be back with the massive cracks, incorporating new techniques, such as antigen texts, which also the scientific evidence has shown us in the last few weeks that we can use a lot more in scope than we did a few months ago. And we have to try to do that, that's to say, the scientific evidence has to go by helping us keep each time longer. Maximum preparation in the post as well, with reactive ability. This month of generation will be the five multipurpose hospitals that in the end will be, so, like whites, let's say it, right? , of the country's referral hospitals, obviously accompanied by what are the personnel contracting processes, because we are very clear that empty hospitals do not feel, must be hospitals with personnel. In relation to staff, one of the decrees we have approved is precisely the ability to incorporate staff from the later courses of nursing, psychology, medicine, pharmacy, and from the later courses of the higher grades, to have more TCAIs, is to say, for nursing assistants, gerontology, etc. This incorporation is what has allowed, for example, in the mass screening that we are doing in the city of Barcelona, in the entire area of Barcelona right and that has the nucleus, let us say, in which it is articulated in the Hospital of Sant Pau, which is carrying out the screening, obviously with the supervision and coordination of infirmary, primary care and mesgessionally of the Hospital of Sant Pau, they are students of last infirmary course, to which we are grateful that at the time of their formation they decide to take this step of courage. And we have to thank them and obviously pay them back, as we do properly. Personally, I agree with the MIRs. This past Tuesday we approved the government and explained it to Councilwoman Budo in which it is the press wheel. We have reached an agreement that I believe is a very positive agreement, which reflects the exit agreement of the MIRs, in which, therefore, there is an increase in the remuneration of resident internal doctors, residents of the country, right? And I'd like to detail it, because I think it's important: from October onwards, wages are already increasing by 5_per_cent, and they will continue to increase from '1 of generation; therefore, in the first year of formation the total annual income of a resident meth will become 18,264_euros and the fifth year will be – those who are in five years of formation– 24,829_euros, placing us above clearly the state media; precisely, by recognition for the effort they have been making and, above all, for attraction also of talent, and avoiding flight of talent. So in this sense we are working and we will continue working more. Afterward, Mr.Iceta also referred to the generality's surplus; well, I think that what you have to do is read correctly and know how the surplus is calculated, and it clearly indicates, therefore, that we are in a very different situation from what you tell us. I assure you that we will finish this year, in the Generalitat of Catalonia, with a very major execution of the..., not only that which there was the presumption, but also very much that it is fixed for the State as reference. You have gone before, and there will be a debate, which by September we had a surplus of EUR 891 million: no, this does not follow the accounting calculations to calculate the surplus. Following the accounting calculations, it is at 154_million euros, but it has an explanation: the same one that they would give him thirteen of the fifteen autonomous communities of common rule that were also in surplus, some much more than we, some much more than we respect their GDP, governed by the Socialist Party. You mean they're...? I'm for commons. You mean they're ticks? No, I mean that July is going to get the property tax, the liquidation; that it is going to get the liquidation, of the year 2018, of the financing model; I mean that September is the month that they have rejected the education fund, and I mean that October 5th – October, October, eh? – therefore, since April was half a year, half a year after the European Commission authorised it, the State decided that this year there would be no deficit targets, half a year later; we get the corresponding entries at 0.2_per_cent, and, obviously, then what we have is to spend them, which is not to spend them when we don't have them. And, therefore, I think I should be fair too and not explain that there is a surplus where it is not, because we will end up with a deficit. Then we'll see how in fifteen days your predictions, go, have varied in a very important amount. But we'll spend all our resources, and more than we need. And in this sense, you would ask me again – and ask me every... I have a feeling that I don't think we understand each other, Mr.Iceta – well, we don't understand many things, uh, let's just say, that that's why we defend ideologically antagonistic projects – but there's one thing that I'm sure we don't understand, that's that every time you appear, you ask for the execution of the Covid-19, I explain the execution of the Covid-19, and then you'll ask me again. So we'll get ready for the next 15 days, won't we? At these times, Mr Miri has been generated from Covid-19 funds, EUR 2,083 million, and we are about to generate 137 more in the field of transport, 57 which are in the field of Health and there will be approximately 150 new calls for assistance to the affected sectors: from help to Security through the Presidency Department, of 2_million_i_mig; all the authorization in the field of Health, of more than 846_million; education, of more than 100_million; in Treball, of 115_million; in 3.1_million of support, also in the field of trackers; in transport, of more than 846_million; in education, of more than 100_million; in Treball, of more than 115_million; in 3.1_million of support, also in the field of transport, of more than 50_million; in education, of more than 100_million; in Treball, of more than 115_million; in the field of transport, of more than 20 million; in the field of transport, more than 20 million; in the field of transport, more than 20 million; in the field of transport, more than in the field of transport, more than 20 million; in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the field of transport, more than in the field of transport, more than in the field of transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport; in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport; in the transport, more than in the field of the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport of the transport, more than in the transport, more than in the transport of the transport, more than in the transport; in the transport; in the transport of the transport; in the transport of the transport, more than in the transport of the transport of the transport of thetransport , more than in the transport of thetransport , more than in the transport of thetransport , more than in thetransport , more than in thetransport , more than in thetransport , more than in the transport of the transport ofthe I'll pass it again because from here to fifteen days, when I ask myself again, so keep the list absolutely updated. And the basis for the Health Pact, we are totally in agreement, but there is a fundamental element, which is this..., now we have some extraordinary health tickets; we have had them, we have had them this year 2020, we will have them 2021, and this is good news, but they are not structural entries, and the Metges's College xifra in 5,000_million euros this necessary increase in funding. When you vote here in Parliament this, you voted against it. So how can we make a deal without more resources on the table? We need these resources, and I think that in the next few months this must be an absolute priority, because when the pandemic passes we will have to strengthen the system of salvation much more, because we will have to recover from what has not been attended to, the lists of hope, which have unfortunately increased; we will also have to recover and strengthen the whole field of mental salvation; we will have to..., the symptoms of Covid-19 persist; we will have to do so many and so many things. So, we need these resources, and without that, it can't... Go, I think obviating this for a pact would be a mistake. The commons were talking about the need to make cracks, which we are doing; about quarantine..., here we continue to insist: temporary incapacity for the parents who need to take care of their children who are in close contact; we haven't gotten out, we can work together this, we don't have to be able to get out, because this for the parents who have economic capacity is not more likely to contag, but for those who don't have it, and especially for families who are in charge of a single parent, who is usually a woman, it's much more complicated to manage; a mother with two children, that one must be confined to being in close contact – at this time we have come to the students of Catalonia who are usually in this situation – and that can't be done at all; but it can't be done at all. You asked for planning, spending and rectifying. Planning, opening plan; we have it, and I think it's published. Autonomous, we say we have to plan it ; granted the criteria with the Autonomous Work Council. Yesterday... today at 7:30 a.m. we already had 59,000 girl requests in the register. We'll lock up on the 7th, and based on the volume you have, we'll see how far from the aid goal we can get, that we want it to be the maximum. They wanted to spend... well, we've made a great deal of money. You say to us: "There are 900 million euros in surplus. Now they say: "It is that they are only at a 0_per_cent, a 0.7_per_cent, of deficit. Well, for now we've improved 2,300_million. So, we're going to adjust the calculus, aren't we? I insist, the important thing is how much more we spend, not only, because we have also had an increase in entrances, the result of the transfers of the Extraordinary Source of the State that we have claimed, that the State has done and that I did not have any problems in saying well done and recognizing it. Obviously, we want more, we always want more, don't we? But in this sense, we will then compare the expenditure in reference to the intervention of Mr Sabria. Reinforcements : 3,200 people incorporated in the area of primary school since March. 3,200. A good part of these will be structural. And one part, obviously important, is conjunctural to deal with the situation of the Covid-19, especially to free the health care workers from administrative tasks– also, because, if not, we will have optional, infirm and infirm, doing administrative work. I'm still with the CUP. I think he's done an analysis of the effects of the situation. I think that the obligation of all folds, in the end, is to concretely make this possible, which also explained the Cat Salut director the other day to paint the subsea without coming out of the water. In other words, we can't say we stop the economy and rebuild ourselves, but we have to go now. And it has made a recognition, to which I attach, to all the essential sectors that are often the precarious sectors. And in this sense, by opening up all the tools, the Next Generation U.S., we want to open up to the cooperative world and it will be essential that the social economy sector can access it. The People's Party says: "Helps to the local people have not corrected the methodology. We have changed: not a direct, emergency aid, but a planned register. As I said, until today at two-quarters in the morning, 59,747 requests entered; on the 7th we will shut it down and automatically help will be solved. Yeah, yeah. The alternative is to make a system for points that we would end up resolving – obviously, subject to appeal – the month of March or April, and the payment, to May. And the payment we need now, and the goal is to pay before the end of the year. Restoration and aesthetics. He spoke of 40_million, left 50 of the second call, 19 of the extraordinary call of the Department of Enterprise. The call for education, yesterday itself released a statement. He said: "Maybe I'm not on the case – I wasn't on the case – yesterday a statement came out in which tomorrow morning, until the 11th on the 8th of the evening, opens the call with 20_million expandable. Moreover, in this House is validated the law decree on these aids. Therefore, it is simply a question of looking at the order of the day. Expansion of the opening plan. I think we have a careful opening plan that finds balance, that has some criteria and we'll keep it. You say: "There is no scientific demonstration. If you want, I'll post a list of scientific articles on where there is the most risk of spread. And if he does, we'll give him the dice, too. Miri The Newspaper today, in which it is clearly explained how it has gone three times faster than the model you implicitly posed, which was that of the Community of Madrid, which is a model more lax respect for economic activities, but we have gone three times faster in reducing cases; three times faster. And also in the name of malfunctions the difference is very remarkable, too. Therefore, I believe that we also have to value all this and, unfortunately, the decisions that we take in this type of consequences, and this is extremely hard for the citizenry, but we have to make the right decisions and we believe that we are near them. And we'll never turn the wheel on this country, ever, ever. You may not agree, but you can't tell us, you can't tell us, that we're turning the switch to this country. And to Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya I want to thank the support to the Government, the recognition of the needs, and therefore fix that when an expansive proposal has been requested, an exit from the economic expansion point of view, with the data that we have today, with today's forecast, respects 2019, this year there will be a higher expenditure in 4,801_million euros compared to 2019. And respect the approved assumption, there will be a major expense – today, therefore, this is likely to increase – of 3,781_million euros. Therefore, this government is acting, putting all its efforts to it. I think we have responded to your requests and, therefore, we are at your disposal to expand the information whenever I need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.127.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next, there's the words of the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.128.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Deputies and Deputies. First of all, I would like to explain again that the difference, therefore, in this case, from the Government of the Spanish State, which decided that it would appear before the deputies and deputies every two months, this Government undertook to compare every fifteen days in an exercise of transparency and with the will to share with all of you the information and measures we are taking to manage, in this case, this second issue of the Covid-19. I think it's important to reschedule it, which is the compromise and which is the Government of Catalonia's willingness to the Parliament of our country. And so to begin with, and we have always said that we would tell the truth and that we would always be transparent and treat citizenship as an adult, which is what we do from the government of Catalonia, first of all I want to reiterate that we are not in a phase of descalation. Using this language can confuse the citizenry of the moment we find ourselves at the level of the epidemic. We're not in a stage of descalation. The phase of descalation we wanted to keep in the summer, where we had some ICUs with a lot of levels under what we have at this time, where we had a lot of R under what we have at this time, where we were actually facing a descalation, which meant that the virus was disappearing from our day to day and, therefore, that we had control of the contagions. And we're not here today. And that's why we don't talk about descaling and talking about opening, reopening. Why? So why did we find ourselves, as I explained in my first intervention, that we are managing, concretely, a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a -- a pandemic that went beyond a health crisis. At the first moment, we didn't know what we were up against. It was almost a hundred_per_cent of pandemic health management, from the point of view only of salvation. But this first wave has resulted in what we are now living in, which is an economic crisis and a social crisis of some magnitude still unpredictable in our country. And that, therefore, in order to manage this second, calm, obviously, health criteria, because it's a pandemic and it's a disease and it's a virus, but it also lowers the criteria that will allow us to accompany the economy and social welfare in our country. And this is the difference of this second. And so, even though we do not find ourselves in a phase of descalation, even though we are in a phase of virus mitigation, even though we are in a phase where the indexes, therefore, still make us very cautious, we have to take these re-opening measures and do so in a planned way, we do this by tram, we also agree with the criteria of the health authorities. But now, to give an answer, too, to the reality of our country. I think it's very important to frame where we find ourselves, at what stage we find ourselves. And, therefore, language... it may be different from what is a descalation from what is a re-opening plan, which is what we are applying at these times in the management of this second wave. Mr. Carrizosa, allow me to respond to your intervention. When a pandemic comes up, precisely, what is manifest is that if we want to manage, that if we want to save lives, that if we want to give response to the needs of people, businesses and the locals of our country, they are calling resources and tools to be able to do so. And that's it. Our reality at this time is that the Spanish State does not lay down the tools or the resources that they possess, for example, other states like France or Germany. And that's a reality. France or Germany make a direct injection of economic resources to entrepreneurs, workers and self-employed workers, to all those sectors affected by this pandemic, for measures, let's say, for collateral damage caused by this pandemic in the economy. And the Spanish state has nothing to do with it. And so, so, that's it. And, listen to me, this is why we demand to be a state, to have and dispose of the appropriate resources so that we can decide freely how we can and want to manage these resources. There has also been much talk today – I think Mr. Iceta was commenting on it – of the epidemiological data of the pandemic, of the effort of everyone, certainly of the effort of everyone, of responsibilities, of complicity with health professionals – obviously, all, absolutely, we agree. And, if I may, I would also like to raise the issue with Minister Illa. I think it's important, let's put it in value. There's been a good conversation with the minister in this sense. In fact, since the Government of Catalonia we have always said that we want to work cooperatively and in coordination with the Government of the Spanish State. And the offer has been since the first moment. Now, let me tell you that it's also a shame that as far as social protection and economic measures are concerned, when we cheat at the door of the Government of the Spanish State there's no one on the other side. And that's it. And they find us day after day. Let's talk about ERTO. Gentlemen of the PSC, lords of the commons who are part of the most progressive government of history, since August 12 they are not charging ERTO. And that's a reality. All those ERTOS that have been processed since August 12, today, are not being charged. And that affects a lot of workers in our country. And we can't store the head under the wing. That's it. Since August 12, all ERTOs that have been processed since that time are still not being charged. Perhaps the occurrence, Mrs Ribas, is that the wallets are found with a stack of cards, notifications of ERTOs, where they say: « Covid Street-19. Maybe this is the case. That it is managed in this way the communication with the citizens of this country to know if they can charge or can not charge or how is the state of the processing of their ERTO. That's a occurrence. Sometimes it looks, even, like a skin socket – even a skin socket. Because, look, more than 4,000_million euros for Catalonia that could give the Mede fund, this does not seem to me to happen. Some background Mede that, if I may say it, is a credit at 0.1_per_cent interest at thirty years, without practically conditionality. A measure that would allow health spending to be financed and, therefore, that would allow a lot of resources to be released to devote them to other policies that are also absolutely necessary. And that does it to all autonomous communities. But you know what? That since June when President Torra sent the letter to President Sánchez requesting this, the answer until today has been silence. They didn't even dare answer this letter with a statement or a denial. Not even with an explanation. The silence per answer. I'm done. I told you, from the very first moment, this government we've worked with the utmost willingness to cooperate and coordinate to manage this pandemic with the government of the Spanish state. They will remember that President Torra put on the table that document of forty concrete measures that we proposed to the Government of the Spanish State to accompany in the management of this health crisis. I don't know, a document that, for example, talked about the EUR 710_million pending accumulated for the non-payment of the third additional provision of the Statute, huh? They know that there are commitments to pay 2019, 2020 and 2021. Or he spoke, for example, of the 418_million euros of lack of State funding in the law of dependence. He also asked – today's answer is still zero – those lines of direct subsidisation to companies, giving liquidity and injection of liquidity to the peppers, direct aid to lost funds. Or the suspension of the collection of taxes while the state of alarm continues to exist – that the majority of taxes, we must remember, those linked to the productive economy are state competence. And so it could be a good part of these forty steps that already at the beginning of the pandemic President Torra was calling on the Government of the Spanish State, and, unfortunately, and once again, the response of the Government of the Spanish State was the same as always, neither expected nor good was the satisfaction. And that is why it is for this reason, and I repeat more than ever, that the situation generated by this Covid-19 reveals again the infra-financing of the Generality, that this situation generated by the crisis of the Covid-19 poses before the Mirall the Spanish Government, a government that makes people and businesses pay for the economic crisis, that the situation generated by the crisis of the Covid-19 shows again that the only opportunity for progress and the welfare of citizens and citizens of Catalonia is independence, that is to dispose of the tools and resources of a similar state. Thank you, Vice-President, Councillors, Members, Members, Vice-President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.129.0	Thank you, Counselor. The representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups then have the right to reply, and the first word is the Member of Parliament Carlos Carrizosa, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.130.0	Thank you. Look, we're going to pass very quickly on what I was commenting on in my intervention of the fights and the inefficiency of the fights that you have between you, which, for example, yesterday contracted over whether or not the restrictions were softened by Monday, December 7, those fights that in the end make people not know what to attend to, citizens don't know where you're going. You have not entered into it, of course, in this forum. You can understand that you don't want to wash your dirty rags in public, even more in public. As soon as... – I had left the mask. As for the... your passion to blame others, in that you absolutely agree, Mr Aragonés, d'Esquerra Republicana, with Mrs Budó or Mr Batet, of Junts per Catalunya. Hey, it's Spain's fault. If we had the state tools... but let's see, hey, an autonomy is state, the tools you use are those that a state uses to fight a pandemic. Mrs Budó, you refer to Germany. Germany is a decentralized country, of which more, and what has it done? It has centrally assumed the fight against the pandemic, like France, which is indeed a centralist state. That's what you've done in the rest of Europe, what happens is that you're always going to blame Madrid, which steals from us. You deny the « identity hell, but seven thousand companies have left Catalonia, have fled from you since 2017, because you make speeches that sow hatred. You say that the rich of Madrid live at the expense of the poor of Catalonia. But what demagogy is that? What serious analysis of a tax system is that? If the reality is that the rich Madridns, the rich Andalusians and the rich extremists are in solidarity with the poor Catalans and the poor throughout Spain, because the Spanish tax system guarantees equality, the redistribution of wealth among people. Nationalist gentlemen don't pay the territories, people pay the taxes. I agree with Mr Batet that money should not leave Catalonia, and what happens is that I say it should not go to Brussels. The neglect of the injured, look, we have mentioned this too, you, the injured groups, tell them what you have decided, never talk to them about the measures you are going to take in advance, you always hear from the press. Zero empathy with the affected sectors, and policy of fait accompli. You here today have not made any progress in this orphanage that has all the sectors affected by care and being heard by your government. As for the waste, very related to that endemic lack of money that you complain about. Look, zero proposals for retriorizing the Generalitat's spending, zero contrition acts of what you're spending badly, where you're going with the money, zero. The promise is more of the same, than the ones tightening the belt are the citizens. The Catalan administration is not going to tighten its belt, is not going to review its superfluous expenses, is not going to remove the fat and leave the muscle. You have said nothing about reducing chiringuits, reconsidering your space programs, not giving so much money to TV3. Nothing, more of the same. And finally, yes, Mr Aragonès, another way of governing is possible. Don't be so haughty, look at your surroundings, there are other communities that also participate in a common project, as in all decentralized countries, which are not permanently questioned about belonging to the state to which they belong. Mrs Budó's speech, if it was all the proposals that I made, then I have made, the truth, I have seen it a little announcement of 012. « Keep the masks, keep the distances, wash your hands. Nor are the major measures expected of managers. Then what happens happens and you, then, are not up to it and blame others. In spite of everything, we hold hands. We're going to have the quiet awareness of our performance in this pandemic, I don't know if you'll have it, I don't know if you've done everything you could. We will redouble our efforts to overcome the virus, and that, for that, the Catalans have us with their hands stretched out. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.131.0	Thank you. The words of MP Miquel Iceta, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.132.0	Thank you, President, and very briefly. Some questions of figures, the Generalitat has rejected 3,165.6 million euros, and still needs to be addressed a few more. You say to us: "We have not spent until we have rejected them. Well, then they might have thought that those who were already compromised could have spent. This is always a discussion and a margin of discretion. You say: "We will take advantage of the greatest margin of deficit. We'll see at the end of the year, and we'll be delighted to see that, because we're supporters. About what happened and what the State did. Home, the month of September there were 329,675 protected workers with some type of subsidies, help or ERTO, 285,232 autonomes have rejected some type of social security performance. Certainly, it is not direct aid, but it does support EUR 15,233.2 million to 110,397 Catalan enterprises. They can always say: "There should be no more. Well, those who want more resources in Catalonia are still in time, they can vote for the assumptions, they have this opportunity. There are groups of this chamber that have done it, not girls that we are part of the government and I want to recognize that effort, because, sense of doubt, they would want a lot more, sure, but they considered the adventure to be meaningful and, therefore, sufficient. Miri, Mrs. Budó, if you had managed the ERTOs, first, I don't know if there had been any ERTOs, but in any case only for the first hundred_ thousand. Let's adjust to what's happened, and you, for the first hundred thousand. Well, we've done it with a little bit more... Now, you're right: there are things that need to be refined and adjusted. There are databases that are not powerful enough. There was a need to invent this postal code, to say so, imagine, and you're right and need to get better, obviously. Now, I would not minimize the effort, among other things, because it is an effort that we make among all from our taxes, because the money, apart from those that come from Europe without needing to be repaid, but it is money that comes from the people. To the vice president, well, surely we will not agree, but recognize one thing: you today, in response to my request for more information, have been more detailed than on other occasions. That's easy to prove. And so, the problem is not that we don't agree, it's that we're probably asking for more details and concreteness and information, so to speak, about the paper we've had; that we'll have it, perfect, because it's here that we all serve the best possible way to our fellow citizens. I wanted to make some reference to what we think may and may be an additional effort, in an effort to agree. It is true, when a pandemic – and it has passed to all governments – and overflows, what you have to do is manage and throw away and many times that prevents you from doing things in another way, certainly. Now, when we're talking about the economic sectors to be compensated for, man, it would be very convenient if there was an agreement, an complicity, an information, an anticipated negotiation effort. And, therefore, we believe that this effort must be made and that the government, in this land, can and must do more. Back, fine-tuned. In the end things come about by trial and error. They find there's room for improvement. Every day there's room for improvement, so let's take advantage of it and let's really have the peace of mind that when we find a mistake, we figure it out, and when we see how things can be done better, we do it. Then, spend. You're telling us it's gonna spend everything you can and more, so let's trust this. And then, something that doesn't come up with a word, explain without sound. Because, of course, the Government of Catalonia has, and you say and rightly so, says: "Miri, every coalition government has its internal debate, but of course, before it is said: "Whether it's going to the Mede or not going to the Mede, and we, the truth, agree more with the position that the Vice-President and Councillor of Economy and Finance has always expressed, that not with which the other government partner sets up. And, lastly, the priorities remain the same: primary, tracking and follow-up, professional, alert to the increase of waiting lists, support to affected economic sectors and maximum transparency. That's what we're asking. We believe the government can do more in these lands. We'd celebrate what you're doing and, as you know, our attitude is always helpful, supportive, because it's happening to all of us and, well, I don't think you're exaggerating, life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.133.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pueblo, has the word of Congresswoman Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.134.0	Thank you. All right, let's go. He did not answer me, Vice-President, he respects three of the things I asked him very concretely and I tell him why we would keep asking, obviously he won't answer me now, but we still don't know how much reinforcement has been made to the staff promised to the residences, why Ferroser's topic is not being re-examined in the screening and what is happening with the issue of the social service contract. Is it really a reinforcement or isn't it a reinforcement? It is that the mouth of infra-financing is filled so much and that you have in co-management with the local world, so we are not quite clear that they are doing so, precisely with sufficient funding. That's not what I wanted to focus on, but two thoughts. In two thoughts. Obviously, it's hard to imagine a different Nadal, for all of us, without finding that every family unit we do, so, with our partners, with our friends, with our families. Nadal's ordinary findings, but it's harder to imagine an estue without these esteemed ones, because he's infected with Covid in Nadal and has not been able to overcome it. And I ask everyone to put themselves in these circumstances, that these are the ones we have. They can't have no relaxation. All the prudence and all the necessary restraints. It's the last great effort, surely that of this Nadal, which we will be able to do in this sense, even though we still have months ahead of us, a whole year ahead of us, surely, still with the Covid. And that, obviously, has to be balanced with supporting the economy, because it is essential, also for everyone's own salvation. To sustain the economy, we must not risk a new tank. And, therefore, the first of all is that we don't have a third round and that we put all the resources in place to help the affected sectors and spend it planned and fine-tuned. Therefore, we insist on the government: plan, listen to people and spend whatever they want, because now it is more necessary than ever that this is the priority with which we are acting. But don't confound, or go on, stop being a confusing factor. See, it has to be advanced in the re-opening plan if the indicators follow, if not, no. Today, the Health Counselor has said that it is will do the measures of flexibility of the Nadal pass what passes, follow the indicators. No, no, It must be possible to make Nadal's flexibility if the indicators follow, and if not, no. Let's work out all the pleas for indicators to accompany, but stop being an element of uncertainty. The re-opening plan should be to create a certain predictability to the uncertainty, and you, once again, continue with this uncertainty towards the citizenry for the constant contradictions of how they express themselves, what they express themselves, how they express themselves. By responsibility, please, stop generating sound, stop generating uncertainty, remain predictable. At least in what they have planned to complete the plan, they strictly complete the plan, and not in the sea more the citizenry. And a second reflection, and let me, in this case..., in the first person, as the deputy who is at the door of leaving him, and if I don't blow it: govern, please, be responsible. They come out of the candy; they always need to get out of the candy and listen to the others, but it's now more than ever, the government and the parliamentary groups. Now, no constant complaint about the fiscal deficit, no willingness to build an independent state, no electoral toilets, very legitimate, but none of this is useful at this time. This now does not go from what electoral rate one or the other pays to make more or less mistakes or to make a better job of the other, to save lives, to save jobs, to save life projects, to save the country, in short. There is no need to hold election rallies in the debate we have to hold in this Parliament respecting the management of the Covid crisis. It has to be political in capital, sub-rattling and cursive, useful policy, indeed. Government, groups, please, more than ever, with a government in place, with elections at the door and with a health, economic and social crisis, leaving electoralism at the expense of once and still useful to the citizenry. We don't serve unless we do good politics, and we all benefit from people trusting politics and politics at a time as delicate as this. They do politics, they're responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.135.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, it's the turn of the CUP Subgroup - Constituent Cry. There's a word from Congresswoman Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.136.0	Thank you, President. Well, you've all been talking a lot about the European Union's help and the various formats. So far, and since the pandemic began, there have been several different types of aid based on these European lines, and for the moment what we are seeing is that ICO has rescued Vueling, Iberia, OHL and NH Hotels ; that, through the ECB, CEPSA, Repsol, Suez and Naturgy has been rescued ; that through the EIB, Santander, BBVA, Iberdrola and Gestamp, and this has been done with the aid that has come from the European Union and has been done by the Government of the State. And, therefore, the bank, the car, the airlines, the big energy companies are rescuing itself again, and all this to the detriment of the people. We will set a very concrete example: CEPSA, right? CEPSA is a company dedicated to the exploitation, production, refining, transport and commercialization of oil and gas. The oil dependency was very good for the vice president as the economic advisor when he first appeared before his parliament, wasn't it? That we can't depend so much on oil because it affects our economy a lot and that we have to make a transition. So, far from making this transition, we are paying with public money 2,586 ERTES to CEPSA, an economic benefits of practically 16,000_million euros in fiscal year 2019. We exempt them from paying for social security and workers. And, therefore, we are still rescuing the same businesses. We see the shareholders of this company: 67_per_cent is Mubadala, a state foundation of Abu Dhabi which, moreover, has origins in connection with certain other negotiations, with which I will not be entertained now. And the 33_per_cent of the other shareholders are Carlyle, who are a source of United States with origins linked to Reagan and Bush administration. Therefore, if this is the rescue they want to do – or the ‘reconstruction, which you say – on the basis of the European foundation, then the truth is that we cannot disagree more. We talked about the Next Generation, and he said to the response to our intervention, the vice president, that they want to devote these funds to the social and solidary economy. We have already said in the plenary that if these funds are to be distributed practically all 2021 as a support office, and that this support office has to accompany the social economy and solidary to present all the paperwork and all the paperwork. But it is that we are seeing a royal decree of the Government of the State that consolidates the model of public-private collaborations, and that exempts it from the application of the Law, for example, of public-sector contracts, 9/2017, exceptionalizing the authorization to contract and sometimes without public competition. And, therefore, they will be these centralized aids to the State, will sort out the State to which it gives them, and sometimes, therefore, said and excepting the prior authorities of the public contract. In fact, this royal decree also amends Law 40/2015, of 1 October, of the public sector. And, therefore, each time is more necessary, as we say, the generation of a similar state, but to have a similar state we need to increase social power. And, mirin, the modification of the Criminal Code, some pardons that can be a legitimate individual solution or a new fiscal pact will not bring us in case we can manage to transform the system in which we find ourselves. And, therefore, we hope that we can work together in a total amnesty, for self-determination, but also for a pact of economic and social transformation that listens to all the views of Catalan society, because in this way we can increase social power and we can cope with these great enterprises that, again, in a context of crisis, again capture all public money to the detriment of the benefit of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.137.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the turn of deputy Alejandro Fernández, of the Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, from the escó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.138.0	Thank you very much. Very briefly. First, Mr. Aragonès, as I have already commented, when I wrote these lines yesterday, I said to him..., if there had been any changes in the announcement, in the call of the educated reader, I had no problem recognizing it, and therefore you gave me the gift. I would have liked you to do the same when I gave it... about 40 million in restoration and aesthetics. I have the updated data, only 10 have been distributed. Therefore, here I would have liked you to give me the right, as I do with the other given. And, finally, a reflection to deepen an idea that has just moved Mrs Ribas, in a timely and more well-expressed manner. Look, conditioning today's management to debates that won't find a solution either today or tomorrow or tomorrow, because they're very complex, it's deeply dishonest, and I'd say it has a certain point and all of immorality. To say that you can't do things right today for a finance model or for independence, I insist, debates that you won't find a quick solution either today or tomorrow or tomorrow, is, in the end, a way of taking responsibility for today's matters. You have the responsibility to manage now and today with the resources you have now and today. They can't run away from studying. Not now. Any other time could be more prone to certain debates, but not now. They have a responsibility, like us to the opposition, but theirs as the government is higher still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.139.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next is the return of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Deputy Sergi Sabrià has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.140.0	Very briefly. I only believe that a first thank you, for contrasting too, was emphasized by Councilwoman Budo; this will of every time she had to compare, to explain herself, to give information to the Chamber and to the citizenry of Catalonia and to do so every time she was needed. I also, I believe, appreciate the content of the answers, the willingness to give answers to each of the parliamentary groups; and to the groups, too, the soul with which this debate has taken place. And that said, it seems to me that you just heard, because the rest I think has been very complete, answering to those who don't have the built soul. And, therefore, simply answer Ciutadans, because I think things can't stay that way. And tell him very clearly that there are no bandages here, which are very difficult decisions that they want to protect today's life to save the economy today and tomorrow; that bandages are surely the populism to which they have accustomed us since they arrived and, therefore, that this no longer outrages us or surprises us greatly. Now, when they plant here and pose Madrid as a reference to the pandemic management, it seems to me that someone has to clear things up, because in Madrid they have trigated up to three times more to fall the crow. Three times more is as much to say that the crow has fallen naturally and not because of policy action. But it's three times more, when we put on the table the ratio of the dead between one place and the other... I think I'd have to shame him. But that's why you have to keep a little. And look, they have the honor, I honestly believe, of having been the biggest group to the opposition of Parliament's history. And if they're not aware of it today, time will put them in place. They are the party that leads the most uprooted opposition and the sun of history, and the only fate they have is that they are elected, and that they will surely remain so small that they will not be left or sorted as president of a parliamentary group. And the legislature made itself very long – very long –, very long, as long as its permanent arguments, pamphlets and soots will laugh. But they don't laugh because we're talking about people who suffer, and in the background every time we talk about the pandemic, we're talking about dead people. I, therefore, do not laugh.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.141.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, it is the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The word has the deputy Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.142.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. From here, from the point of view, I reiterate three ideas that have marked the different debates and discussions that we have had by parliamentary groups here in the House. The first is responsibility. That doesn't solve a single person. This does not solve a single government, even though there is no president. This is not solved by the most progressive government in history, because you are here today defending one thing and the week you see..., or today itself, as it has now passed, the Council of Ministers denies things that you were defending. Because reality is complex and reality is changing. And it affects the mayors, the mayors, the different political parties, the citizenry and everyone. The compromise is individual and collectible. And it requires a lot of responsibility on the part of everyone. We legitimately believe that this is about resources, that it is about guaranteeing salvation to people and guaranteeing life, and that is why we need resources. That's why we need money. The health counselor needs money. Residents need money. The government needs money. Listen to me, and here, let me know, the miracle of bread and fish hasn't happened yet. The money's still coming from Madrid. Because we have a huge tax deficit. Miri, we would be willing to approve assumptions of the State, our political formation. That's what Mrs. Delete said. Mr. Iceta here now makes reference. But we're talking about the tax deficit. How to solve the €16,000_million in Catalonia that go in and don't come back and that now Catalans and Catalans need them. Even so – you, Mr.Iceta, who spoke of the Constitution of Germany –, the German Constitution, to its constitution, says that solidarity between the lands is limited. [[Widow's remorse.]] Even the German Constitution. [[Widow's remorse.]] I've listened to them with great attention, and I also need the same respect. I know they're nervous when we talk about fiscal deficit and Catalan solidarity, but that's the way it is. We have the legitimacy to defend it, because that goes with resources. Dr. Argimon said the other day: "One government with resources can take one type of decision and is in a different position than another. And that's the reality. Or we're talking about the funding of the Dependency Law. How is it that the Spanish State, from the government of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, today, etc., has not financed the law of dependence as close as possible, as approved by Mr Zapatero? And that's what the Catalonian Government has to pay for. Or we're talking about the infra-financing of the health system, the historical debt of social security. I remember here, in past times, when we already shared the Health Commission some Members, that this was the great – the great – demand at that time to the Government. And it hasn't been paid yet. Can we talk about these things? Because the resources are the ones that will make and give a guarantee of salvation, this balance between life and the economy. And that goes through the dialog, the politics, to want to deal with the issues. Indeed, we have this will. We have it. What we won't do is give up there. What we won't do is say: "No, no, no; we don't have to solve the problems. Yes, because the big problems have to be solved in complicated times. And, finally – I finish – this is solvency and independence, and I think this crisis has made it manifest. We defend it and defend it with all the normality of the world. We have our right and our duty to defend our political project and to believe that in Catalonia, with more resources, with more skills, directly managing ourselves, and not with the centralization that there was at the first stage, not with centralised decision-making, as we see with European foundations, so there would be no limitations and understatement also towards people, Catalans and Catalans, who, in short, pay their taxes to have quality services and a government that has these resources necessary to guarantee life and guarantee the economy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.143.0	Thank you, Congressman. I understand that we have exhausted this point of the order of the day, this debate. [[Asking the Government about the impetus of the economy]] [[300-00342/12]] Therefore, we turn to the eighth item of the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the impetus of the economy, presented by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose the inquiry, has the word the deputy Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.144.0	Thank you, Vice President. Vice-President, Economic Adviser, Members and Members, this crisis obviously has three aspects. It has its origin in a health crisis, of which we have been speaking good part of the morning, but it also involves an economic crisis and a social crisis in the past. The three are closely linked. And in this question we want to focus a little more on the economic aspect, which, of course, also has effects on the social landscape. And the economic, macroeconomic indicators are worrying. I'm convinced you know them well. A rest of the main ones. The decline in the third quarter of the Catalan economy was 9.1_per_cent. The lockdown forecasts for the 2019 fiscal year, according to their department, were – they were said to be because they are perhaps a little old, we are talking about a few months back – between 10 and 12_per_cent. The trading chamber places this decrease, the forecasts of this decrease in a 13_per_cent. Without going any further, yesterday the OECD itself placed Spain in a situation of a fall of the '11.6_per_cent, at the cua of forty-six countries analyzed. But what was most alarming about the data that the OECD gave us yesterday was that we would cheat more than two years into recovering the pre-pandemic level. And all these data have effects, and the effects are that the recorded event has increased, in today's data, 24.4_per_cent. The atur rate is located at 13,2_per_cent; at the beginning of year was 10,5_per_cent. And the security forecasts for the weather are between 15 and 16 per cent, according to the forecasts of its own department, which means about 200,000 more people in the weather, and therefore exceed the xifra of the 600,000 people in the weather. And in this scene it is obvious that economic measures are essential, economic measures that must go in two ways. A sense is to avoid corporate bonds, and therefore to keep jobs, but also to keep businesses, because then we can re-invigorate the growth of the economy and consolidate businesses and, obviously, consolidate jobs, and, therefore, also consolidate a society of social welfare, starting from the creation of employment and growth. The measures to reduce the impact..., have taken measures to reduce the impact of health measures that have been more restrictive But, listen to us, we cannot assume that we can end up in between 25 and 30 percent of businesses, which is what employers are telling us, and it is what the company advisor says he has taken. We don't want to resign, we don't want to take over. And, therefore, we believe that we must try to take the necessary measures to prevent this from happening. You've been creating and calling for a lot of different help in the long months, but frankly – we haven't spoken a good Estonian this morning – don't let anyone be very satisfied. All of us, obviously, when I ask for help, for what it is, I appreciate it, but they don't just let anyone be satisfied; and the most obvious exhibition is the disproposal with the autonomes: two thousand helpers, 400,000 autonomes that were left without being able to access the web in order to ask for help. And, look, we don't know what they're spending, spending, spending, like some other group says, or spending everything else, but what we're asking is that where you're spending it well; if it's done this way, we won't bring it back. Now it is necessary to spend, but it is necessary to spend well and to go to those sectors that most need to consolidate their situation and to be able to retire with a situation of new growth. But what we find to be lacking, in a very intense way, is a bit of coordination – a little enough, of coordination – between the departments, which try to avoid overlaps and, above all, that they avoid leaving sectors unprotected, because there are sectors that are unprotected, and, more importantly, sectors that have not been escorted – also in the long run of the day several groups have referred to sectors that have not been escorted either by one department or by another department, and therefore have not been escorted by the Government. Allow me to quote two: one – perhaps they have already corrected it –, the sector of the night oci, has spent many months asking for talks with the government and had not, or another, yet today is still a complaint of the same, a smaller, but important, sector of the firaries. And the perception that at the end of the government's transfer is that every department goes to its own. If I may, and with all due respect, it looks a little like Pancho Villa's army, huh? , where cadascú goes to his. And I'm going to give you two more examples: you're helping bars, restaurants and beauty centres, and you're helping 1,500_euros, of which I'm sure 10_millions have been tied up; it's like, in a hurry, in a hurry, but in a hurry, it's announcing and it's more expensive to distribute. It was done by the Department of Enterprise, and after the Department of Labour also announced some help for the two-billion-euro autonomous. What's going on is, for example, bars and restaurants and aesthetic centers... only bars and restaurants there are 40,000 in Catalonia and there are 550,000 in their own right. So, of course, going to one thing 40_million and the other 20_million seems to us to be a little, as at least, disproportionate – as at least disproportionate. Or another disproportion: the Department of Education allocates 20_millions to education, which seems magnificent to us, and 20_millions later also to the autonomous, which I think gives an idea that there is a disproportion here. Or another element of dissonance: aids to cinemas are for cinema companies, or for performing arts, in general, with independence from the quantity of salts that can be held by the same company, so that they can only access an aid. On the other hand, in the case of the night octopus, the aid is for the establishment. So, well, they generate these dissonances that they don't quite understand. So, one thing is that you're a lot free to mess with each other, with the different departments, to get up from the falls to take the picture or not know what..., but the other is that you're not talking to each other. And I think what we're missing is that there's more dialogue between the members of the government, that there's more dialogue between the government departments, to try to coordinate and do a single and coherent government action in itself, which is what we don't think it is at these times. I can admit that the government of Spain was missing. And it is true: unlike most of the countries around us, France, Germany, have cited..., Italy, where restrictive health care measures are accompanied by powerful economic measures so as to try to compensate for these restrictions..., this has not happened in Spain, and in the absence of such measures must have been accompanied by the measures that the communities may well last. But as long as they're done, at least, let's get them done with as much coherence as possible. Not so, the International Monetary Fund, but also the same OECD, they say that Spain is one of the countries that will cost it the most to recover from this economic crisis, because it is one of the countries that has also taken less measures to give support to the productive sectors and workers. But in any case, this is already being brought back to you, to the Government of Sanchez and Churches, or we are already bringing back all the petitions to the Government of Sánchez-Iglesias and to your parliamentary support, some of which give the impression that they are more busy for the taxation of the Community of Madrid than for the taxation of Catalonia, because also through the taxation it is possible to help entrepreneurs and workers. But you, Mr. Aragones, have renounced it, and now you want others to do it too. As you look at Madrid, here you generate – and we recognize this – broad consensus. Miri, el derrer: Foment, Pimec, Workers' Commissions and UGT retain the lack of proposals in the framework of the social dialogue to address measures to compensate the sectors affected by the descalation. And it's not the first time they've had the toilets, and if they don't have the social and economic agents, they've already done it with the Economic Reactivation and Social Protection Pact of July. And now I would like to talk more about the economy of the future, but as time runs out, I will leave the postpandemic for the next intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.145.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Deputy President of the Government, Mr Pere Aragonès, now has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.146.0	Thank you, President. Mr Rodríguez, in your question you are placing, well, one of the most worrying elements and the most working on the current pandemic situation, because it is obvious, therefore, that the restrictive measures that have come to an end, but not only the restrictive measures, but also the same economic situation resulting from the smallest activity in many areas of our economy is causing a significant impact, in certain sectors of the country's activities, is it not? We had to take drastic measures to protect the lives, to protect ourselves from the second wave of the pandemic, and we had a very clear objective, which was that we did not pass to Catalonia what had unfortunately to pass, for example, to France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, the Netherlands also during the weeks, to Austria, from measures that were very clean to the total confinement. And we have taken decisive measures, certainly, but measures that have avoided total confinement. And to avoid total confinement does not mean merely to have prevented us from being locked at home, to remain locked at home; it does not mean merely to have avoided, therefore, the cessation of industrial activity, from trade to detail, the closure of educational services, which is what would have provoked, but also to have prevented the damage in health care from being greater. I think this is absolutely important. We have, therefore, completed a plan for re-opening, we are well aware that health care measures, such as the massive cracks, like all the reinforcement – that we are already doing and that is done, right? , and that we will continue to improve – in the field of detection, but also economic aid to the most affected sectors, also, obviously, for cross-sectional areas, such as the autonomous ones, as well as, therefore, for which they are more sectoral. Miri, this late, that we can say the measures of the second one, I would like to take a rest from the measures that have been taken, because you have gone from criticizing that no measures are being taken..., now criticizing the content or some more technical aspects of some measures. Well, anyway, we're getting better, let's just say. But we, from the end of October, in which we had to take really tougher measures... for example, and I have explained before, the increase of EUR 125_million in the field of social emergency; the support in the field of the third sector, which has an increase in the price to which we pay the services of EUR 35_million; the law on suspension of charges, which, after several doubts, the courts already say that, well... that they are obliged to apply it, therefore, they are obliged to apply a law of the Parliament of Catalonia. We have approved a deduction from the IRPF to avoid a tax overcharge for workers under EUR 22,000 who have had to collide with an ERTO. In the area of associations, social initiative cooperatives that are dedicated to the care of vulnerable communities, 3.6_million. We have reinforced funding in the areas of locals: 20_million arriving before the end of the year, 100_million during the coming year. In the realm of autonomes and pimes, after this first aid with a single payment of two thousand euros, which has benefited up to two thousand autonomes, so, obviously, attuned to the limitation and which was of an emergent character, we would make a more structural support. And in this sense, for that reason, precisely, so that we can properly scale and prepare ourselves to be quick in helping, we change the help request system to pre-registration in a register where we already have the data, to go fast. We had to adapt and change the usual system of aid to the economic sectors that had, not the Generality, any Administration – any Administration. The system of non-competitive competition and which is by temporary order has been applied by administrations of all types – of all types, right? – and, therefore, we have to look, therefore, how it can get better. And I think that in this sense the news we have from the register, which is evolving, now we already have about seventy thousand people registered, so we give ourselves the size, then we see the compliment of requests on these of how many, but we think it will be an important part. So, let's go, then, repairing and adapting what are the mechanisms that the government has to support the sector, right? We have improved the 100_per_cent of the ITP for all that is the administrative concessions of terraces, public road occupations for catering and street markets. You have made reference to the firaries; the forecast we have is that in the own governments there is a transfer of EUR 26_million to the Department of Enterprise to strengthen new aids, reinforcing new aids in the field of the affected sectors in which, obviously, there will also be the sector of the firaries, which is also an area of concern to us and which have seen much reduced its activity to practically zero, many of them – practically zero, many of them – during this year 2020. Not only the 90_million in restoration aid complemented with 19_million euros in the tourism sector. In the field of inn, we have dedicated ourselves to helping the establishments of the night octopus, and, in fact with the night octopus we have found ourselves, I myself have found myself, more than once and twice. In any case, the dialogue does not always end with the satisfaction of the sectors, that what they want is to reopen their activities. But there are activities that are suspended in Catalonia, in the State and in Europe. And, therefore, to be the first to re-open it, we must be very sure. And in these moments, there's no such thing as health security to be able to do it. And that's why we're articulating measures. Certainly, we could be accompanied by other administrations. And in the field of the cultural sector, measures also directed to workers, to cultural workers. Therefore, we have been implementing help. His criticism is no longer that we are not in fact, but that he does not just like the technical criteria with which we apply them, but in any case they are the appropriate criteria that every government in the world believes are the right ones, and obviously they start from a coordination, above all because they can get there quickly. And, in this sense, we have been reviewing all the bases, and, in fact, there have been a few days when the measures taken have stopped: revision of the bases, enlargement of the supposition parties, the nature of this presupposition and the strengthening of the entire information system in order to facilitate this situation. Information collapsing situations have occurred in various government administrations by different parties, huh? So did I. And that's what happens when you have a system of help that was designed for a few thousand and a lot of innovation, to the new investments when we now have to take return guarantee measures, for certain economic sectors, or, in the end, of inputs when the activity is shut down and they become social help, right? In the field of the sport sector, EUR 25 million. The deadline for requests was opened on 30 November. And on November 30th, too, the term for which the measures are, therefore, was opened..., because we must not stop thinking about those sectors that are undergoing a very rapid transformation in a context of sacseig, such as the one provoked by Covid-19, for example, in the automotive sector, with these 13_million euros of high impact investments in the automotive sector, as I said. And what is, therefore, autonomous people and businesses holding youth facilities, not only what is the activity itself, but also the large entities, will be allocated appropriate support measures to their situation. Therefore, we have been working intensively, we need to continue to maintain this aid and support scheme. And I think that what we need to allow, precisely..., the work that we need to be able to deepen much more with social workers is that, I am aware that we will have, therefore, a winter with many folds and a spring with many folds and that probably for a lot and a lot of people it will be long, which is close, so it is to agree on a continuous scheme of help that will have to hold sufficient funding. Doing this is not easy, because we are governing uncertainty and managing uncertainty, as all governments are doing, and, therefore, the will is to be able to have this help scheme as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr President; ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.147.0	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, now the paragraph of Congressman Santi Rodríguez has been added.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.148.0	Well, vice president, it's what's going on day by day, it's going to take some time. Because I wanted to focus more on the future, more on the post-pandemic. Actually, I think we all want to talk about the post-pandemic, don't we? To be able to put a horitzó, a date and be able to talk about the postpandemic. In the post-pandemic period, the impulse of economic growth will be essential, as a result of the circumstance that we have been explaining before and the macro data that we have before. And here there are two sectors that worry us – we worry all sectors –, basically two of the most important: the industrial sector, with a GDP fall of 8.2_per_cent; or the tourism and trade sector, with a fall of 40_per_cent. Where, for example, it's from envelopes known the tourism path where overnight stays have fallen, logically, an 88_per_cent, right? You're referring to aid to the automotive sector, support for the automotive sector. It was about 13 million euros before the pandemic in the sector. And the business advisor had also committed herself to the sector at a contribution of 50_million euros. Now we're talking about 13, even though the reality is that there are 2_million euros in the budget, on the assumption that they approved the April, it's possible that something has changed now. But that was reality. We also wanted to comment or we wanted to ask you to explain briefly – we have an appearance the week you see – as you are focusing the debate with the Government of Spain in relation to the Next Generation fund. And in this sense, to expose him that our main concern is not that he manages resources, but that it is five projects that are capable of presenting and five projects that are capable of financing for special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, right? And, therefore, it was a little bit of what he wanted to raise, a little bit of future tea, because even his term of office has already expired, and regardless of whether he will renew it or not, as the government has to put on a kind of policies. In relation to your intervention, you told us that non-competitive competition by temporary order does not work. It doesn't work if it's bad size. I already said in the last Ple to the advisor of Treball: to plant some help« first than above, first than rep for two thousand people for a world of 550,000, and leads to the most absolute failure, which is what actually happened. Now, if the universe is smaller and you help them give all over the universe, there's absolutely no problem. And that's what I think at the time failed. But the criticism I made of him was the lack of coordination between departments at the time of planting the aids and the lack of proportionality. They're also minses – they're minses too – but here I've already shared it with criticism of the Government of Spain, in the sense that they didn't help, either, in this sense, in order to strengthen all these aids. And criticism also went to those sectors that have been oblivious. Because, of course, what is dialogical, nor with social and economic agents, has there been much dialog, not to say that people – and it is every time, that they claim that they want to see and want to give their opinion and that they can help improve the decisions they make –, nor with the different economic sectors that suffer from particularities and that want to be listened to by the government to expose their particularities, because, surely, this would also be the way for the government to engage more in time to design certain aids for all sectors. And that... there are also many sectors that complain that they haven't had this dialogue with the government or with the departments. And I finish my question, Counselor, by referring again to what I gave to the first intervention, you have now proposed to focus on the taxation of the Community of Madrid in accounts of re-establishing the taxation of Catalonia, which I believe would be better and the Catalans would like it. Miri, I will now deliver a letter, which is the letter sent by the councillor of the Madrid Community to the minister. It's his counterpart to the Madrid Community. I am sure that you, after reading this letter, will empathize with everything that he expresses to you, because I am convinced that if you are in the same situation as the Councillor of Madrid, I would say exactly the same as he told the minister in this letter. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, for the reply, the words of the Vice President and Councillor of Economy and History are again used.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.150.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, let's go to Pam, and that's how I'll try to give an answer to everything you've raised. In the first place, he spoke with the sectors, we have and permanently, not only for the articulation of support measures, not only to share with as much advance as possible what are measures that can restrict the activity, but also to share the management of the opening. In this sense, for example, what is the opening of the catering sector, is an opening that requires the complicity of those responsible for each establishment; it needs the complicity to ensure the distance between diners of different tables to the terraces, which must be two_metres; to ensure that it is the maximum of 30_per_cent to the interior; to ensure that it is correctly marked also the distance between tables, as marked by the criteria of the Process. There is a vast majority who are making an important effort to manage it properly. This effort involves a certain loss of the capacity of their businesses, but the other day I was tricked by the owner of an important restaurant chain in the country and I was moved by the need to increase, precisely, the control, the inspections, because it says: "We don't have to suffer if there is someone who doesn't do it right, and in this sense we are already compromises, but what is fundamental is the responsibility of all those who are at the head of the establishments, and also of the customers who are going to help put it easy, for this reason these cries to citizenship. On the future, it has located two sectors that are very uplifting, and that are two sectors that are patenting, but probably the way to the future is different. The tourism sector. The tourism sector, basically, while international mobility is restricted due to the pandemic, will suffer. They especially suffer those areas of the country where tourism is a highly vocational tourism, and I can think, for example, in the coastal areas, especially Costa Daurada, possibly Costa Brava Sud, Costa de Barcelona-Maresme and the city of Barcelona. And, in this sense, what we have to try is that the maximum tourist infrastructure, when international mobility is regained, continues. The ICOs in the tourism sector have been important, so I transferred to Vice President Calvin the need to widen and not to start making the return of ICOs to April, but more years ago. He's moved forward in this sense, and he's probably going to have to move forward. We must therefore continue to support this sector, a sector that will recover its activity when international mobility is recovered, and especially not only the most tourist holiday areas, but also the city of Barcelona. One of the bets is Barcelona with its congresses and firs. In the presupposition of this 2020 we incorporate, precisely incorporated that it will be the expansion of the Fira de Barcelona, but this enlargement does not serve if at the cost there is no hotel infrastructure, and the current hotel infrastructure, which is enough, must be able to maintain. And, in this sense, the support measures have to go all the way here. Another sector is the automotive sector, which is in a much deeper process of transformation, much deeper because the combustion engine is displaced by the electric motor, and therefore means that the way of production is changed, the role of suppliers is changed, we need new training for workers and workers, and we need to situate those elements that may be the focal point of the production in Catalonia. The fact of being able to have batteries factories that allow... that in the end the batteries factories, in the case of the electric car, are the ones that mark the slots that each company can produce. The fact of being able to place them close, that at these times there is no such thing as this, must allow us, therefore, to have a much stronger automotive sector in our home and to make this change. That is why it is one of the sectors that must be given priority in the projects that we will have to accompany from the Generality, and in those that we will probably have to participate, therefore, being on the side of industry and technology transfer centres in the Next Generation fund, because, moreover, it fits perfectly into what is the need for a green agenda in the digitalisation process as well as in a much more resilient economy. So these are the lines. I think the week I see you I have a appearance in this sense accompanying the Tremosa advisor, and therefore we can give much more details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.151.0	Thank you, Vice President. Arriving at this point, we suspend the session until fifteen minutes later than the forecast, at a quarter of four, with the next point of the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.152.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Decrees Ill 38/2020 of 3 November, by which measures are taken in the cultural sphere to deal with the effects of the crisis generated by the Covid-19 pandemic, and 44/2020 of 17 November, by which the Cents of responsible cultural spaces are created]] [[203-00064/12 and 203-00068/12]] And we do so with the debate on the validation of Decree Law 38/2020 of 3 November, for which measures are taken in the cultural sphere to deal with the effects of the crisis generated by the Covid-19 pandemic. The fact is that the Board of Spokesmen agreed to substantiate this debate jointly with the fourth point of the order of the day, that is, the report to the debate on the validation of Decree Ill 44/2020 of 17 November, for which is created the Cent of responsible cultural spaces. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of Culture will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated; these decrees. Go ahead, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.153.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, this item on the agenda is aimed at the control and validation of two decrees which were approved by the Government, as the President has said now, as urgent measures to give support to the cultural sector of our country in this second wave of the pandemic. A sector that was newly affected by the effects of the October end Covid-19, which pointed to a new critical situation of the contagion and which required the implementation of exceptional actions in addition to the context of continuous abnormality, in a _marc that poses political and constant management challenges. At that time, we defended with good arguments and until now the opening of the living spaces of art, but it was important to prioritize the epidemiological data that were in a critical situation and to respect the indications of the health authorities. On 22 September, the Government declared culture as essential, as you know, in an agreement that intended to preserve culture before the new restrictions and establish measures for the survival of the sector. They recognize culture as a right of citizenship and as a quarter of the welfare state. It was not possible to avoid the closure of the living arts or popular culture spaces, but this statement did allow the opening of museums and art galleries, exhibition halls, centres of creation and visual arts, archives, shoots with reduced space and conditions, as well as the library server reserved. The Council of Culture was very aware of the economic impact of the measures taken for the resolution of salvation, as they entailed reducing economic and social activity to the same time as restricting mobility. Even if they were temporary measures, they required government action to compensate for lost and basic needs, in our case, of all agents in the cultural sector. It is to say, from one band, to compensate the various collections of professionals of culture and especially of the performing arts, visual arts and live music, which has seen its activity paralyzed in the application of these measures. And, as a result, the drastic loss of entrances, assembling the continued suspension of its activities from the pandemic's iniquitous. On the other hand, helping cultural areas develop these activities and the businesses that manage them, which have also seen imports undermining to cope with basic structural expenditure and maintain their economic activity. In this sense, the Government of the Generality is committed to ensuring the survival of cultural structures, workers and businesses engaged in the cultural sector. And it had to be done on an extraordinary and urgent basis, in order to meet a social need to support the cultural sector of first order and with the celerity that required the moment. It is for this willingness to speed up and compromise with the sector with which it was in constant contact, that it worked intensively so that four days after the approval of the resolution of salvation, on October 29th, the decrees were adopted which would allow to activate, in the shortest possible time, the lines of subsidies directed to the professional and the enterprises of the cultural sector in order to deal with the effects of the closure and cancellation of activities. One of these decrees is Decree 38/2020, which we present today for control and validation in this Parliament. And in which two lines of subsidies managed through the Department of Culture and endowed with a budget of €8.200.000 were approved. It is a series of lines of grants that have been worked together with the sector during the days following the resolution of health and that have allowed for the definition of broad call bases, including and shared by the different reference entities. Decree 38 includes, of a band, a line of subsidies to contribute economically to compensating for the reduction of the corresponding entrances to the cancellation of performances and cultural activities in the face of this health crisis, in this second instance. The persons benefiting from this grant line are physical persons, self-employed enterprises, civil societies and private businesses, and self-employed entities carrying out paid professional, artistic and technical activities. It also leads to the assumption of non-profit entities organizing cultural payment activities and who have seen the tickets go to the right of this fence. This line has rejected a presuppositional endowment of 3,700,000 euros. Initially, it was approved three million, which then it was possible to expand. The call for help is effective from November 12th and the period of application will end on December 10th. Covering all scheduled cancellations between October 30th and December 31st. This morning 486 requests had already been rejected, in a call that is still open and that is estimated to be able to give cover to all the petitions that arrive, since the assumption is that, if necessary, it can be expanded. On the other hand, in this decree, a few lines of grants are approved to support the financing of operating expenses of businesses and cultural entities during the health crisis. This line is presumably €4,700,000, and also covers expenditure from 1 to 30 November. And it would have expanded in a new line, in case it continued with the closure of these spaces. In this case, the petition presentation period ended this last Sunday, November 30. A total of 390 applications have been rejected. These summonses, as they have seen in the official publication, take place by means of a non-competitive competition procedure. This procedure, provided for in the General Law of Subsidies, is provided for exceptionally, as is the case, and is concrete in some important aspects, to give unconditional support to the sector. There has been no competitiveness among the applicants, everyone who fulfills the requirements is right, since it is about managing the effects of an extraordinary situation, of a crisis situation. On the other hand, this system allows administrative efficiency, since it avoids unnecessary delays for the beneficiaries. It is a fixed grant, covering a number of survivors and avoiding intermediate transactions such as the provisional proposal and acceptance of the grant. Moreover, and very important, a payment of the cent_per_cent of the grant is established at the time of the grant. That's why the social and economic circumstances of the difficult time we're going through would make it impossible for physical people, businesses and entities to take part in these losers. It should also be noted that he has worked actively and in contact with professionals and organisations to expedite procedures as much as possible and to provide tailored advice to all grant requests, as well as information sessions aimed at the various areas, so that no one in the sector is left behind, either via the #CultureResponse channel or live view channel. These grants will have no presuppositional endowment problems, as it gives priority in this line of help. And if it is necessary, then it will expand. In any case, there is a precedent for the first call for these aids, which was opened from May until October 30. And in which all the requests were answered. In fact, these 8,200,000_euros, linked to the law decree, form part of an initial extraordinary budgetary increase of 17,200,000_euros, to counter these losses that previously explained to them, which went on to expand these past weeks into 5 million euros more, to increase these social benefits and subsidies per cancellation of music festivals. These imports are in addition to an increase in the budget of the Department of Culture of 26 million, which was achieved during the months of September and October, to promote cultural activity and which allowed the expansion of the subsidy lines previously opened and to increase participation and imports in cultural projects in all cultural disciplines. In all, approximately 48_million euros of increase in the pressure during this late, these last months, to ensure that the sector can maintain itself, that the cultural spaces can follow open and that the various professionals of the culture can sustain themselves temporarily until they return to work with normality. It should also be noted, even though it is not the object of this session today, that on 3 November another decree was approved by law, linked to the working people of the culture, that it was carried through the Department of Labour and that it was already under the control and validation in the previous Plenary of the Parliament. This call has adjusted the presupposition, and has reached up to EUR 6_million_i_mig. An import that can give coverage to everyone who asks for it. This morning, concretely, 3,245 requests had been received for this performance. But the premise is equipped with a calculation that can reach up to 8,700 people. It may be noted that in this session, also today, we are subject to control and validation of this Parliament another decree of law, Decree 44/2020, for which it is created the Hundred of responsible cultural spaces, which was approved at the government session on November 17, as an urgent measure intended to give security to citizens and prestige to cultural spaces. It is a decree supplementing the previous one, which was dealt with separately and after the first, in order to be able to give the urgency of the sector's aid, not to delay it and to gain time, but to share the objective of strengthening the sector and ensuring its sustainability. It's two decrees you think of, in fact, as a unit. The Government has passed this decree to which I referred to in order to give diffusion to cultural spaces adopting health protocols that determine the competent authorities, and which is committed to adopting and implementing social inclusion programmes. Thus, all the spaces that form part of the hundred will obtain an accredited distinction of responsible culture space, that can make visible to their installations and that will be a guarantee of security for the viewer beyond the Covid-19 and that, at the same time, it will add value to the space as a guarantee of accessibility and universality of culture. To form part of the census, it is necessary to make a simple request through the Tramits portal. Cat, and today we have also been able to prove that, while a few days ago it is in force, there are already forty-nine areas of responsible culture. In these hundreds there are accepted spaces of all kinds, where most cultural activities are developed, and which complement all the conditions of the Procicate's action plan to emerge and any risk activities. At the same time, we also ask for censuses of cultural areas which, through their activities, promote inclusive measures, in order to avoid the risk of social exclusion of particularly vulnerable collections for economic, social, genera or social inclusion reasons. The creation of the census is part of the actions that the Department of Culture is driving through the long term the recovery of activity in the cultural sector; a dam that also articulates itself with other aids, such as the new line of subsidies to compensate for the limitation of supply to 50_per_cent, in a call for subsidies published this week to cover the difference between compulsory supply up to 70_per_cent, which is that the sector needs, and therefore can make its opening viable; a compensation that facilitates the opening that allows professionals to work. Because what the cultural sector wants isn't about subsidies, it's about working. And we also start from the base that we like to help economically to promote cultural activity rather than for cultural closure. For this reason, the declaration of culture as essential was made in terms of dams; so that, together with urgent measures, the Department of Culture is activating measures that focus on promoting cultural activity and financing those activities that allow professionals to donate work. So, we have been supporting cultural activity through programs and initiatives, also in communication media. We want to go beyond the short term, we want to have a look at the medium and long term that the cultural sector needs. That is why we are pushing initiatives, which you know, as is the assumption of Culture that once upon a time this 2_per_cent of the generality's global assumption. We also engage with cultural workers and workers at the various meetings held to find a solution for their work situation and, in particular, for those intermittent collectors who are still tainting the consequences of the pandemic, to give legal stability and security to their work. In this sense, I can already inform you that the hundreds of artists will be a reality in fifteen days, we will inform you in due course, and that the interdepartmental table of the cultural sector is being set up to initially address two priority themes – the financing of culture and the contracting and working conditions of the professionals of culture – so that you can go ahead and help them get out of their precarious work. So, we will continue to work to give support to the sector. I count on all of you to make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.154.0	Thank you, Counselor. It is now the turn of the interventions of parliamentary groups. And we start, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, for Mr Hector Amello. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.155.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, very good afternoon. Look, this morning I asked a question, we were talking about the crisis of the Covid, how it threatened to take many companies ahead and how it also threatened to take hundreds of cultural workers ahead, and also told it there that the cultural sector is composed of about forty-thousand companies dedicated to cultural activities, which add up to about 105,000 workers and whose gross added value is around 4,500_million_euros per year, which represents approximately 2,1_percent of the wealth generated by the whole Catalan economy. And I also told him that this is the magnitude of the figures in the cultural sector that the Government of the Generalitat, from our point of view, is putting at risk during this parliamentary term in Catalonia. The decisions of the Government, from our point of view, have been characterized by their improvisation, their mismanagement and because, obviously, throughout this legislature, they have shown that their priorities remain the confrontation and division of Catalans, and their last concern has been culture. Since the implementation of measures to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, the cultural sector has been one of the most affected. It faced, like other activities, a closure that has led to endless cancellations of shows and cultural activities that have led to a reduction and loss of millions of income for businesses and cultural workers. During this time, they have been forced to temporarily cease their activity, have been without income, without billing and with a maximum cancellation of activities; companies and self-employed have also seen how they should continue to pay their quotas, pay bills, pay taxes and bear all the structural costs arising from the sector's own activity. With this scenario, these subsidies can hardly alleviate the economic damage caused to the sector every time it is closed and prevented from working. And yes, I share with you, letting them work with all the security measures is what the sector wants. The sector wants to work, of course. The total money intended to sustain the sector by the losses caused is insufficient to support a sector that covers forty_ thousand enterprises, 105,000 workers and generates a wealth of 4,500_million_of_euro. But it is clear that companies and workers, at the moment, do need these aids to compensate for losses due to cancellation of shows and cultural activities, and they also need aid to support the financing of the operating expenses of companies and cultural entities during the health crisis caused by this crisis of the Covid. And I would like to start with Decree Law 38/2020, on measures to alleviate the effects of the crisis generated by the Covid pandemic, because, when I have read it, I have the feeling that you have either drafted the decree very quickly, too quickly, or have not taken into account some of the singularities in the forms of recruitment of the cultural sector. And it is that the decree has some gaps that it is important that they be resolved so that they can accommodate the maximum number of companies and workers, which now, from our point of view, does not happen in this decree. As the decree states, some natural persons who have been cancelled the cultural activities they had contracted, because they are not going to be able to accept these subsidies, because they are not among the assumptions of the beneficiaries, because they are neither natural business persons, nor civil and commercial societies, nor are they private entities, which are covered by the decree. So certain workers or technicians who have seen their activity cancelled are going to stay out of this subsidy again. In the same way, many beneficiaries will have problems in being able to justify the cultural shows cancelled under the conditions required by the decree. And the government knows that well, even if it makes deaf ears. When it comes to the precariousness of the cultural sector, one of the most affected issues is in the forms of recruitment. Then you say that you have the right to receive compensation for cancellation losses those who had an order to make translations and corrections of texts in Catalan and in spiders. Are you going to discriminate against Spanish here too? In this decree, too. But there are more reasons that create us doubts. In the operating cost subsidy, the aid is per enterprise and not per activity. For example, if a company manages several rooms, but they are all under the same corporate name, it will only be eligible for a grant regardless of the number of rooms it manages. On the other hand, a company that has rooms for different social reasons will not have this type of limitation. This situation from our point of view is an important comparative aggravation when it comes to accessing the grant and in practice assumes that many rooms are left without being able to opt for the grant. Look, what we recommend and what we think is necessary is to look for formulas to ensure that these aids are proportional to the real size of the establishments, and thus adapted to the level of the public and better harmonised to the actual losses that each company is bearing. We know that different associations and guilds have conveyed to them these concerns that we are expressing to them today and have found no response from them. Look, we think you have a strange ability that every time you develop aid to deal with the Covid crisis, in the cultural sector you leave people without access to these aids, and there are more people out there who can actually benefit from these aids. Thus, even if they create the aid, the problem does not end up being solved, because the vast majority of people affected by the impact of the Covid measures do not or do not end up meeting the requirements for access to the aid. That is why we believe that with regard to the decree law that addresses these issues as important as it is to face the reduction of revenue by cancellation or to cover operating expenses..., therefore, what it requires is a rethinking of some points in order to be able to accommodate the maximum of beneficiaries. That is why, bearing in mind the short time that we have left in the legislature, we believe that we must urgently draft a new law, which corrects shortcomings, is more flexible and inclusive, in order to prevent any company or worker from staying on the road, and to be able to preserve their livelihoods. With regard to Decree-Law 44/2020, on the creation of a census of responsible cultural spaces, look, from the very first moment the companies and cultural workers admitted and acquired a firm commitment and did the right thing; they assumed the responsibility to ensure that the cultural activity was safe, the health and safety measures and restrictions imposed on them by the Government of the Generalitat have been adapted and complied with at all times. The inclusion in this census involves being able to use the distinctive'responsible cultural spaces', but I want to say a number of things to you. One: the spaces of culture have already shown that they are responsible, and demonstrated it from the very beginning. The cultural sector wants to work, and it knows that for that it must comply with all measures, it must generate trust in the public, and that is why they have endeavoured to be safe spaces of culture. Cultural spaces have invested money to adapt their rooms to measures to deal with the Covid. Many of them have invested very large sums of money, at a time when they had virtually no income, and have made a great financial effort looking for resources where they did not have them. Or they've had to go into debt. And I ask you: is this government going to create an aid plan for the sector to take the health measures they are demanding or are going to leave them alone again? Do you know what the cultural sector has received for doing things right and taking all security measures? For what it has received from the government are constant bandages, constant changes of opinion and a decree of cultural closure by this government. It has been the Government of the Generalitat that, with its decisions, has generated uncertainty in the sector, mistrust in the public and in those attending cultural events. You with one hand write that culture is safe and with the other hand sign a decree where you literally say that you close the cultural spaces because there is scientific evidence that they are at greater risk for community transmission, and in this regard, among others, the opening of cultural activities to the public is suspended. And, secondly, it has taken eight months in this government to push this badge, a further sign that they are constantly late. If culture is safe, it has proved that it is, they should have created this badge, because much, much earlier, and thus support the sector and give consumers the guarantee of tranquility and compliance with all health standards. This Government is lagging behind in promoting measures that restore confidence to the public, spectators and cultural assistants. Third. The distinctive'responsible cultural spaces' requires a specific campaign to make the distinctive known, to put it in value and to make it known to the citizens. And that's it, fourth. To be included in the census of cultural spaces you propose that you must commit to promoting inclusive measures. The cultural sector has long been committed to inclusion because of its sensitivity. But I wonder, in this decree, where is this government's commitment to inclusion? , or is it only a matter of corporate social responsibility? I propose that you promote cultural inclusion programmes, measures and plans and that you provide them with a budget. But the cultural sector also needs other complementary measures, such as an institutional marketing and communication campaign that generates confidence and stimulates public assistance to cultural events. Or it also requires lines of grants to implement public management plans. Does the Government remember the motion that was adopted here, on the proposal of Citizens, with eighty measures for culture to confront the crisis of the Covid? For I propose that you comply with it, that you comply with all the measures adopted, that in addition most of them were adopted unanimously, because the cultural sector is precisely what it needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mr Rafel Bruguera has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.157.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, deputies and deputies, good afternoon. I want to start by commenting on the last words of the Councilwoman's intervention, in which she made a call in the sense of saying I count on all of you to pull forward. You will advise, you know that, at least on behalf of our group, beyond the differences and discrepancies that we may have in concrete day-to-day policies, we have been able to draw global policies from the point of view of our country's culture, I repeat, beyond the logical differences that we can have in day-to-day and in concrete management. I do not want to extend'm, but from the Conca, passing through the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization and many others, the cultural 2_per_cent, we have been in great themes and we will continue to be there. And, more than that, we're delighted with life. And so, of course, you can count on us in the same way that we would like you to be more receptive, or a little more receptive, to the proposals that we make to you, not just my group, but opposition groups. We are dealing, as you have explained, with two decrees: 38 and 44/2020; 38 on grants to compensate for losses due to cancellation of performances and cultural activities, with 3.7_millions, and another line of grants to give support to the financing of operating expenses of enterprises and entities, with around 4.7_millions of euros. Obviously they are necessary measures, we do not ask in absolute question, we do not discuss them from a general point of view. We could say they're coming late, they're coming too late. But, in any case, welcome continues. And, therefore, it is not us who will stick to the wheels that can be implemented as quickly as possible. Now, we have some doubts about its actual effectiveness. As for example, the 750_euro aids designed for eight thousand professional and technical culture. If I'm not mistaken... well, you've given the data, but it seems to me that the deadline for requests ends two days from now, huh? And so... Actually, I was thinking, this help, for eight thousand professionals, at these times there are 3,200 who have asked for it, surely it will increase, but the question that we are asking is..., well, if they have only asked for it approximately one third or about half of those who could have asked for it, the question is clear: why does this happen, right? Why not everyone who theoretically has a right to ask for it? , when we agree and value and analyze the really complicated situation of the cultural sector since March, right? Surely the answer we have to look for in the precarious conditions of good part of the workers of culture and that the call does not take into account: precariousness, intermittentness, the whole issue of the autonomes, false autonomes, contracts through the agreement of the metal, etcetera, right? And, therefore, it makes us why these same mistakes are being made in Decree 38. « Requirements and conditions. The activities or cultural performances contracted must be credibly accredited. Well, how do you prove it? You all know, counselor... I've been mayor and I know how... maybe it's gotten better now, but at my time it was very... well, it was clearly better the method of contracting the cultural sector. I'm afraid it's gotten a little better, but we're not in the best position yet. And we all know that sometimes the contract isn't there. We all know that a bunch of sardans sign the contract, if it's the sign, when they come up to the town to play the sardans hearing, and that one time they finish the hearing or just before they start they cover the box. Therefore, we fear that there will be many people who will find it difficult to prove in a reliable way that he had a contract, that he was contracted. This is a first problem that seems to us not to solve the decree sufficiently. It also says: "The activities that give right to the grant must have been cancelled by the entity or organizing company. Well, cancels, how? In what way? Through a resolution, a decree of the mayor's office? Through a phone call? Through social networks? Orally? Therefore, we are very concerned that there will be sectors, or a number of important sectors, which are precisely the most precarious, which will have difficulty accessing this line of grants. And yet another doubt. How do you guarantee that the help up to the technicians and external workers to the contracted company? Because if you've precarioused in the contract, let's say, of the programmer, the technicians who rise up..., either alone or in the light– and they've explained it to us, they've explained it to you and they've explained it to us–, very often they know in the morning that they're going to work on the evening, huh? Or the day before. Therefore, how will it be ensured that the grant is actually up and running for the entire channel that should have theoretically participated in the event that has been cancelled or cancelled? So, we actually see that... it seems to us, go, that there are some worrying elements that will make a part of the sector have access to calls blocked. And that worries us. And that's why we say that this decree should be dealt with and improved in some aspect as at least. On the other hand, the call to give support to the financing of the operating expenses of enterprises and cultural entities, sincerely, counsel, we see it much clearer, we see it quite adjusted and we see it quite well designed. We hope that this will correspond to the petitions that are coming and, therefore, that the presuppositional game will be exhausted and, finally, expanded if necessary. For what I do to Decree 44, which created the Cent of Responsible Cultural Spaces, I will also say to you with a lot of frankness: when I went to the electronic mail in which I saw in the title, I thought, "Look, the cents of artists, and it wasn't the cents of artists, it was another cents, which I don't say is not necessary, but that obviously culture has shown enough that it has taken all the measures approved for the Process and that it has even taken all of its own. Therefore, it is true, he said – said Mr. Amello, I think we will tell all the spokespersons that we will intervene –: culture has shown that it is safe, that there have been no outbreaks and that it has not only followed all the recommendations of the Process but in many cases it has improved them or been with their own measures, with self-regulation measures that say a lot for the benefit of the cultural sectors. What seems to us to have contemplated this decree, and with this I have ended, are two questions: for a band, help to adapt to the measures, that there has not been, and, in parallel to creating this cent and anagram, the secret of responsible culture or of responsible culture space, we believe that it should have been accompanied by a public policy, that is, an incentive policy, to encourage cultural consumption. I believe that in the image of all Catalans, culture is secure, but probably lacks the ability to just make the decision to participate in the cultural activity in a general way. And, therefore, in parallel with this decree, we have been pleased that there has also been a trade-off for what it does to the empowerment of public policy. We'll abstain, Mr. President, we'll abstain... [[for technical reasons, no part of the speaker's intervention was recorded]] ...decrees, both 38 and 44. Thank you very much. And nice late.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.158.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, you have the word MP Concepción Abellán. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.159.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, advise, I will start by the end, by Decree 44/2020; it seems a good initiative to pose as a quality seal to the responsible cultural space and to hold its control from the department through a hundred. Surely, after all these months of general uncertainty, there has been a feeling or feeling of uneasiness and insecurity of the citizenry, in order to attend the theatre, the cinemas, in concert or any cultural act, based on the pandemic situation caused by the Covid. But perhaps this insecurity we have generated from all the institutions, and especially from the same government of the Generality. They have treated as a pandemic focus any cultural space, starting with concert halls, cinemas, following theatres or ending with major parties. The sector has demonstrated by active and passive knowledge of what measures to apply and how to apply them, so as to demonstrate that culture is safe. To watch dance, for example, is compatible with meeting minimum standards and not being a focus of the beginning. Culture is safe, and not because I say it, but because it's proven to be so. Now they find that they need to give security to space and viewers. And it must be given the poor communication management that the same government has done during these months, generating insecurity and uncertainty, and also to be able to compete, to see who does the help first and competing with the other autonomous communities to see who manages to get out before this crisis. All this has generated, therefore, more chaos, webs collapsing in time to process aids and cessations, as we have already seen in the Department of Work. For another band, to be a safe cultural space, it seems that rights and job security do not count, to be a safe space. In this case, it would have been safe to incorporate all necessary measures into the health and prevention of work risks for space staff, as well as a stable contractual relationship with good conditions. So it would be a secret of safe space at the health level and also at the work level. It seems to us to be a tough and warm decree once again, a measure in the right direction but misguided and misexplained, as it gives room for misinterpretation, and that is why there are doubts about it. Who will be responsible for the responsibility of a broth in a cultural space if there is none? Let's hope you don't use this decree to rent your hands before such a complicated situation. This decree will generate more bureaucracy, as if we don't have enough. And all this without putting on the political table that really encourages the participation of the citizenry in cultural acts. That's why we're abstaining. About Decree 38/2020. Our parliamentary group was already calling for the cancellations of cultural acts to be compensated. The work done by the cultural workers is not just what we see at the moment, but there is a work of preparation for days and weeks. We do not understand why cultural acts are cancelled without direct compensation for workers, but rather a very precarious and unstable sector. This morning, Mrs Ponsa, she was answering a Member of another parliamentary group who said that she had spoken to the whole sector. And, actually, they did, sure, but keeping them in mind is another thing. They have listened to the main actors, but they have not listened to their requests and have not translated them into this decree. We have spoken to the sector and we have been told: "They have not done so and have not changed the decree as we asked and as we have already told you. And the interdepartmental table up late and poorly. He told me this morning... so welcome to continue the call, but up very late. We came up with a decree that leaves out the worst we've ever been through, that we've already been through the previous crisis, and that's gotten deeper with this pandemic. We know that the Department of Culture has gathered with the sector, with unions, associations, entities, with companies, that the sector has made proposals to them and that these compensations are being made as before – well, it was a demand for broad consensus – for all. But when we read the decree, we see how they leave the workers and cultural workers..., leave them out. Those who raise the culture every day depend on the enterprise to be able to recover the much needed help. This decree tells the worker to go to the company to ask for his help – and that puts it in the decree, I don't say. The workers and the workers of culture, mostly, are possible, have no real connection with the enterprise. The company solicits the jobs, and has a portfolio of workers who cry out to them with two or three days or a week – sometimes a little before simply – of antelacion. Therefore, it seems complicated to be able to prove the cancellation of a job that you know you will do, but that you do not have a signed contract. Artists and technicians, who are contracted in a special artists' or general rule, cannot access this help even if 'lshagi' cancels a cake. This does not only create inequality, but also does not shield the working rights of cultural workers. Neither do we see that it is the worker or the worker, as I have said, who has to go back from the company in order to be able to recover the subsidy by cancellation. What he does is to believe, first, in the good faith of the enterprise, to over-bureaucratize the aid, and, at the end, to do a research and demanding work that does not correspond to them. How do you know if the companies have joined the aid? If the worker can't do it, what does he do? Following back and making them waste their time? Is it going to make it easier for workers and workers urgently and immediately to list the companies that go to grants so that they can claim what belongs to them? If the company doesn't ask for help, can the worker ask for it? (Pause.) I left it in the air. Or on behalf of the company why can you make this complaint and this processing? It's intolerable that she's played this way with the working people. I understand and share that companies need to have direct help to survive in times of crisis, and it is everyone's responsibility to do so, but we cannot let go of those who are supported by culture every day, those who are supported by it, those who are created by it, those who are all and know that it is a hard and very precarious profession, continue to work tirelessly and work tirelessly to follow culture, so necessary for our lives. The vocation and delivery must be compensated with decent labor rights, enabled, direct help and involving all administrations so that the culture and its workers have the place they deserve. Culture workers have been living in a very precarious, unstable and temporary way for many years. Moreover, many people, attending to the intermittence and lack of regularity of labor, charge through cooperatives and businesses, which then generates important management problems. Will this case be taken into account in the enabled aids? The workers and the workers of culture are essential, they are vital to ensure the welfare. We take care of who with so much effort continues to leave the soul so that culture permeates our lives. In this sense, and in accordance with the decree, we shall abstain. However, if we could deal with it as a bill, we would vote in favour of it, as long as we understand that the base is good and that it can be better included in this process. We are aware of the calendar, the times and the difficulties, but it is worth trying to make an effort to ensure that we all have our degree of suspense and try to improve the content with great urgency, for the sector and especially for the workers of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, the Member of the House of Commons has the word Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.161.0	Bona tarta, president, deputies, deputies; bona tarta, councillor. Many of the questions that we want to put on the table have already been put on the table, and we will reiterate some of the main themes of the two decrees that we are bringing today to debate and vote. The first, for what it does in Decree 38, we have not spoken many times, we have had... – despite the little time it takes to the front of the council – we have had the opportunity not only with the Members of the Chamber, but also with the collections affected, with the workers and workers of the culture, to talk about one of the most important issues that affects them: the intermittence of the workers and workers of the culture, the non-compliment of the legal mark on the part of both the private sector and the public sector. We will not tire of repeating it, the public sector, and I am focusing on this very area now, is systematically incomplicating, so many assemblies, district councils, parliaments, etc., incomplete legislation on the contracting of workers and workers of culture, and this has consequences. There are consequences and that have worsened with the health crisis we are living in. The consequences of the lack of compliance with the rules governing the employment relationship that artists have to have when they work..., have consequences, for example, that when the activity ceases, they cannot access the aids planned or planned for the workers in general terms. Therefore, the workers of culture, in a systematic way, have remained outside the umbrella that should protect them. And these decrees also little of this reality, little of the reality of a bad practice instituted in a structural way, both institutions, insist, public as private companies. And, therefore, we ask ourselves about the conditions that are placed on the table in order to be able to cover these subsidies. Today there are companies that will be able to receive a grant, that we understand that there are companies and self-employed and collectors that will receive a grant, that they will be able to apply for a grant in order to be able to compensate for the cancellations that have taken place as a result of the pandemic measures..., but today there are companies that will be charged, they will be able to receive this grant, but that there is no conditionality, for example, to know whether they complement the rights of workers and workers. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to deepen, now that these types of decrees are being made, to help the cultural sector, to bring these questions to light. And it is fixed – fixed – a detail that may seem small to it, but which the same decree incorporates, or gives by fact these evils praxis. In article 4, on the amount, he said: "If the remuneration is fixed in a percentage of the box office, the subsidy will be... The same Department of Culture gives by normalization and by fact that the artists cover for the box office, cover a certain percentage of the box office, which they know perfectly well that it is a very established practice. We believe that when the Department of Culture has issued decrees of this kind, it should be rectifying and being exemplary in the good practices in the contracting of artists, and not giving in fact this reality. Or, if not, apply a progressive look to it, or a look in which it is more beneficial those businesses that do it well, or those in private that do it well. In this sense, it was the case of the Festival Cruïlla, which they would remember perfectly, that already in the midst of the pandemic it was made public that a circus company was cancelled a cake at the Festival Cruïlla, that in addition to the contract or agreement they had reached was of the 35_percent of the locker, and that the responsibility, in addition, to make the diffusion of that spectacle was of the company, and therefore of the workers and workers. And with which they were not complete, they were programmed. And I ask myself: with Decree 38, the Cruilla Festival, which applies these practices, can be charged and can be subsidized. We, therefore, this decree incorporating two subsidy lines, one of the main reasons why we don't give it to them, but to abstain is this. Do not raise the ability or willingness to get direct help to cultural workers. Besides, you, Counselor, were talking about the lack of competitiveness among solicitors. Yes, there is. It's, uh, a couple more times, a grant from the first one up, the first one to charge, isn't it? So correct it; I understand that in the saying point: "The grant procedure is handled in accordance with the non-competitive competition regime. I understand that this means that the first one to arrive... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now, then, in this case, let's just be glad that it's not like that. As we are also glad that in the 750_euro aid, as we know or know, we are correcting the way in which these direct aid is distributed to cultural workers and workers, and that therefore, applying progressive criteria, we hope that this will follow the line of work of the consultancy. Before the deputy of Catalonia in Comú Pomera spoke about the inter-departmental table that will be held the week you see. We also consider that up late, but at least up. And in this sense we would like to congratulate you, Counselor, because unlike the rest of your fellow counsels and advisers, what you do systematically is to hate what is approved in this Parliament, you, as a minimum, are applying an approved measure for parliamentary groups. And that's a lot, because if we compare it, I insist, with the rest of your colleagues advisors and counselors, as long as it's late, I agree – I wonder what the situation is with the parliamentary groups of Members and Members – we celebrate that this table is coming. And we would certainly like to know more about it or to place it, Madam Counselor, so that this table is representative, that everyone is there. We found ourselves a few days ago to ask the Department of Labour to rectify in one of the summonses that had been made to the collectives and associations represented by the workers of culture, because they had not been invited to everyone. Therefore, we understand that this table will be a table where everyone will be invited. Next question, on Decree 44. We'll give it support, though it's a decree that's what it's like. Why? Why do we have to make a hundred responsible cultural spaces, right? It's like, "Culture is safe, culture is safe, it's very safe, isn't it? It's like... we're going back to telling ourselves what's obvious. We believe that it can reinforce the declaration of culture as well as interest, but we insist, we will support it because we believe that it is a century that strengthens and helps this conception, because in material terms, you have to agree with me, which few consequences have. If the approval of this decree with the support of the Parliament of Catalonia helps her to lead the protection of the workers and workers of culture when she speaks to the Procicate or when she speaks to the rest of the councils, we will give her support. If this has to be useful, we can support it. What we do see is that being a decree that has few material consequences, it's a little ambiguous, isn't it? How many requests to be within the inclusion of the cents speak in its point of assuming the compromise by mediating the adoption of programmes of action, of promoting inclusive measures and better of the animal salvation of the citizenry oriented... It is an interesting statement of intentions, but we do not know how concrete it is, we do not know what we understand by inclusive and what we do not understand by inclusive, and therefore it is very generic and here we could enter everything. We are also responding to the demand, here is a point c, which is that the Cens d'espais de culture responsable has to include the guarantee of workers' and workers' rights to work. We're missing this conditioner, which we find indispensable. Despite that, we give it... I insist that we give it support. We also believe that there is a lack of concrete evidence that I have rewarded good practices – here we understand that a small number of people will have this kind of practice – and, at the same time, that they have been accompanied by assumptions for, in particular, those cultural spaces or those cultural equipment that are smaller or less capable of entrepreneurial competitiveness may have some help in order to be able to adapt to the health needs that mark the context of the pandemic, right? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And in this sense, we also found it missing. Despite everything, we insist, we abstain and vote in favour of the other decree. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I end up president. And precisely, if the table is up late, maybe if you've arrived before, today all the parliamentary groups could make a round-up of their decrees because we would have worked with a greater consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.162.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.163.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members, Members, few new things I will be able to bring to the debate on these two decrees, but one I would like to bring. The councillor and other Members say to us: "The sector culture what it wants is to work. And we absolutely agree, and in this sense, therefore, all the support. Obviously, they are not dedicated to what they are dedicated to seeking help and subsidies, but they are dedicated to what they are dedicated because they like them and because they know that they also contribute to the welfare of the spectators, right? And all this why do I think it's important and why do I think it's uplifting? Home, therefore, is because when there was the first wave and March 13-14 with the decree of state of alarm they had to close all cultural establishments, there was who said: "Home is that culture should be considered an essential good, right? , as if it were a food establishment. I believe that even the same Constellera Ponsa on 23 September made use of this expression: "Cultural establishments must be an essential asset, because if another pandemic situation comes back in which we have to reclose, that cultural establishments must not close. Ah, so, go on where, there's been the second wave and the cultural establishments have shut down by order of their own government, obviously. I'm not asking them whether it was appropriate or not; this, in any case, would be a question of salvation. But what I'm asking is why it's said that declaring culture as an essential good, when there's a tank, we'll be relieved that culture has to be sealed. This is the key to everything – this is the key to everything – because, effectively, the cultural sector wants to work. And now we're descaling – and now we're descaling – and culture has been able to open up with limitations of outgrowth; yes, but there are other limitations that affect culture a lot. I, miri, culture and non-culture. I say culture because the perimeters of the week limit the influx of spectators to the cultural spectacles. All of it. And also non-culture, because those municipalities we don't have – and now I've said it in the first person because I'm gone, huh? – but those municipalities that do not have cultural establishments are punished the end of the week without being able to enjoy an essential good as is culture. Well, then, that's the main problem the cultural sector has today. Why? Because, actually, what they want is to work. Now, said that, two decrees: one aid and the other of the hundred responsible cultural spaces. About the help, I add..., other spokespersons have said, for one thing, there are not all the circumstances and, therefore, there are actors of the world of culture – I don't mean actors as a profession, huh? – that they would stay out of access to these aids, for one thing. And on the other hand, as for the financing of the operating expenses of enterprises and cultural entities, to put in full - some other spokesman has also said - that is to consider the enterprises, is not to consider the salts, is not to consider the number of establishments. And with this I tell him that this morning to the vice president, to the councilman of Economy we say: "Listen to me, they are not speaking among the government, because there have been other departments that you have helped them for establishments? Then, man, then, sometimes it would be worth putting all of us in agreement and saying, "Listen, what's more just, what's more appropriate, than these help vaginas for establishments or vagrants for businesses? Because a company that has several establishments will receive aid if it is from the cultural sector, but if it is from another sector, it will receive as many aids as it has. So, I think it's worth it that I have some of these circumstances. And the second element, the second decree, that of the Cens d'espais de culture responsible. I believe that sincerely it does not bring re– it does not bring re. Well, a label, a classification, but what do you mean? What is to be completed..., is to say, to donate this label, to donate this certification, they must meet the conditions required for safety. What happens, that if they don't have this label, they don't have the obligation to comply with security conditions? I think so. Therefore, if it is something that is already mandatory, I do not see why it deserves a certain accreditation of these characteristics, beyond that we want to contribute all folds to spread that culture is safe because security measures have been adopted. If that's the point, listen, no problem. But because security guarantees are complete we don't see why a specific accreditation. And the other, promote social inclusion programs. That's what they have to do. And I'm sure there's only a voluntary push for social inclusion programs. But if we think it's important that businesses in the cultural field drive social inclusion programs, encourage them to do so. Not giving a label; giving the support and giving the necessary help or that is considered necessary because this can be done and because this is a reality. I mean, we're not discussing the object that's being pursued with the decree, we're not discussing the object that's being pursued with the cents, we're arguing that it's being provided to the object that's being pursued, and we think that, actually, they're not. Therefore, in our group, without opposing the decrees or the measures proposed in the decree, we shall abstain in both. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jenn Díaz has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.165.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone; good afternoon, counselor. Well, let's talk about it again. It's not like I'm barely talking about culture, I'm not misinterpreted, on the contrary, but I'm convinced that both the sector and ourselves, the cultural spokespersons of all groups, have a little sense of already seen the past few weeks, right? Yeah, why, as much in the committee as in the hemicicle, there's a bit of the same thing going on, don't you think? : the urgency to approach and regulate intermitency, the urgency to set up the professional sector, the urgency of a hundred– not that of secure space, as the deputy Bruguera said, but of artists–, the urgency of a statue. And probably a pandemic, right? It's the worst time to talk about emergencies. And, unfortunately, every time we have the opportunity – with a decree, with a proposal or with an appearance – we repeat ourselves, don't we? And let's say again – that we are convinced of what we are saying, that we do not lie – all those reasons for which, right? We're dealing with a matter of urgency with deep problems that shouldn't be dealt with from this moment on, are we? The good news is that we are talking about two decrees that seek to help the sector, and the bad news is that the systemic programs of culture are not managed either from the urgency or from direct aid. Listening to my opposition partners, they ask for this more decree than they asked for, don't they? , the sector and public cultural policies in the State and the governments. I believe that – and sharing all that my companies have said – this decree will not resolve it, it has to be solved... The reason for this decree is the only one that does, in any case, the same thing that the pandemic has done: to fill in all the questions that need to be solved in other respects, not with a decree of these characteristics. What we need is to reformulate it all so that urgency doesn't cover our deep needs, as I say, and the foundations that artists and cultural workers have. It is obvious that this bad endemic, these practical evils are neither the responsibility of this Government nor of these Members. And I would say that the Government of Catalonia, while that of the State makes us sort between cinema or life, during the first weeks, when the restrictive measures were so harsh, has done everything possible to save a sector that already has this precariousness and this imbalance before the pandemic. We are aware that Covid's data, its impact on Community space, is devastating, and the culture in life is a Community space, and so there is, therefore, this tension, isn't there? We are also aware that if governments have the ability to sustain the system without ingenuating the button of productivity, they will. But, as there is no magic rod that makes us survive, what we have to do is to ensure that the workers of culture can develop their pocket in the best of conditions, something so simple a priori, right? , and so complex to bring to practice these past months. We have no doubt that cultural spaces are secure, that they have put all their resources to the adaptation of their spaces to security measures, we have no doubt – I think there is no one left in Catalonia who has any doubt. But, as we say, counsel, if it serves to strengthen a weakened sector – which I think is the intent of this century – then. I think we all want to kill, don't we? And to make it clear that the hundred didn't compromise this premise, from which we all start, that culture is a safe space. The change in culture, however, cannot be based on the urgency, as I said, of the pandemic, and Covid has compromised our system and the way we live, not just cultural, right? , but all the effects. Culture doesn't care, it doesn't care about the pandemic to understand that the system we have doesn't work. The only thing the pandemic has done is impoverish the sector. But the strategic change was necessary from before. And we can see this very clearly from the Social and Economic Reactivation Study Commission, which was set up in Parliament, which we found a few days ago, right? , the same Members to talk about it, and the demands of the cultural sector, the conclusions to which we have come after the appearances, may well be the same without the fact that this 2020 we have met with a pandemic. For example, one of the conclusions was: a campaign for the dissemination of cultural heritage – before and before it serves us –; creation of decent work places – before and now –; that the Government of the State adapts itself to work intermittence and discontinuity – before and now –; encouraging programming – before and now –; approving the state of the artist – before and now –; taking into account the race of gender and collectives discriminated against at the time of programming and encouragement – very long before and now –; resuming the role of audiovisual motor of the corporation – before and now – and increasing the pressure – before and now. And I did the exercise of eliminating only the words "Covid", "remote", "pandemic of these conclusions, and the reality is that these conclusions and these objectives for the country tomorrow that we want are exactly the same as it was a year ago, when the Covid had not arrived in our country. So the only thing that shows us this pandemic, and probably the kind of stuff that we could do to these decrees, is that we were already coming from a very precarious situation and from total imbalance. But the conclusions are not only the same before the Covid that now, but also the reasons for which culture must be one of the strategic motors of Catalonia. We've done a lot of talking about culture as the fourth pot of welfare; we've done a lot of talking about culture from the point of view of salvation, haven't we? , that always go hand in hand, later on – the WHO has done a study linking health and culture for the first time– ; we have done enough to say that culture makes us more free, and we have done enough to say that culture makes us more critical, individually and collectively. And all these mantras that existed before the Covid, and now during the pandemic, they're feeling stronger, we've had enough of them and they're not lying, but the impact is no longer the same, because right now we're talking about an emergency. I understand that these two decrees speak of the air, of today, as much of yesterday and tomorrow, and I think we must aggravate them and therefore vote in favour. I believe that it does not, however, fit or specify, as I have said, whether a hundred cultural areas should make it easier for us to recover from the cultural sector in the future. And we also need to know how we're going to do the weekend of the weekend, so that we don't have to get to the same conclusions and the same requests, as I said, with the same reasons, when all this happened. When we return to the same point as we were a year ago or a year ago and half ago and the reasons for which culture has to be strategic if we are the same and the bad endemics are also the same, we will have to ask ourselves what we do not ask ourselves with this decree, right? , which is how we address all these issues that came out this late, not from a decree and not from a hundred of secure culture, but from the legislative changes that correspond. I also understand how tense the Department of Culture is at these times in all aspects, not just in resource questions, right? But I think that this campaign – and I'm referring to the electorate – must serve all groups and all parties to decide which is the future of culture, which goes beyond the pandemic and historical demands, because this is the problem, which is historical and we approach them from the point of view of a pandemic, right? It's obvious that we're going to be late for everything now, because we don't come with the work we've done before, and so the measures we're talking about now won't solve all the evils of culture. The reconstruction committee has given us the leads that the sector needs to be transformative and this requires ambition and expertise and calls for innovation. That said, thank the efforts of the Government and the Department of Culture to give it back and to look to deal with the effects of the Covid. And once we've got the pandemic stage and, as I say, we're going back to that before the pandemic, to recover the mantras and to recover the proposals and the deficiencies that I had, so instead of dealing with the effects of the Covid, we're going to have to deal with the effects of this system, of the cultural sector system that we have now; a system that leaves culture in the hands of inertia. And that's what we can't afford, and that's what went beyond this decree. So, today, more than coming to speak concretely to the small letter of this decree, what I would like to do is to bring out that all the evils that this decree can have are conditioned for all the evils that come before this pandemic. And, therefore, encourage us all to use this campaign, because we all decide, don't we? Which is our country's cultural model and, therefore, which is our country's model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Member of Parliament Francesc Ten has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.167.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late. Many things have already been said, and in some, obviously, we will insist, but with nuance, with our eyes looking for solutions and they do not see how some only see problems. I think, and forgive, of that anecdote of a counselor who read that he gave to his speaker: "I have this solution. What's the matter with you? Some of the things that have been felt, to be imprecise, seem to lie far away from finding solutions. Our parliamentary group, in change, and this government, aware of the toughness, the difficulties of the pandemic, this cruelty and complexity, what we want is to find solutions and work them out. Culture, I said, was one of the sectors that has most rejected the catastrophic effects of the pandemic with the paradox, the unjust paradox, that has been a sector that has helped us, has excited us during confinement, has accompanied us and has entertained us. Covid has put culture before the Mirall in her crueler, harder, more precarious vision, with some working conditions outside of any protection. And we can't just talk about cultural reconstruction, but we need to talk about building a new system that progressively recognizes better, and in this the intermittence of work is not a very urgent one that, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the PSC and Catalonia in Comú Pode, this you have at the top of the table. So it seems to me that we all have to be co-responsible. Citizens need more than ever the culture and work of the government and the institutions to take action to rescue it, as this councillor has explained to us. That the sector feels protected, that the artists, creators and workers of culture feel escorted and gathered for measures of support to their work, as this government is doing. And now help is as essential as reactivation of the entire cultural value chain. Impossible object, for another band, if it is not with a greater urgency of the resources of the Department of Culture and I think of the 2_per_cent and the recognition of all the effects of culture as an essential service, delegating regulation, delegating regulations and I like to add to it also considering culture as a _fourth pillar of the welfare state. And today it seems to me that it is important therefore to validate these two decrees so that they mean placing us on the right line of intervention before culture: rescue, reactivation and legal protection. Two decrees and three actions to address the effects of the pandemic crisis. Two decrees and three actions that are evidences in the struggle of this government, of the government Torra, to protect and avoid from all the ruin of professional culture and to resume the cultural habit, important. Two decrees and three actions which, moreover, fit in and deploy, as the compañera of the Republic Group has said, from my point of view some of the complaints and interventions of the parliamentary groups of all of us in the committee of study and social reconstruction, the CERSE, made just a week ago. Two decrees and three actions of your department, Constellera Ponsa, which amount to more than €8.200.000. The first decree, 38/2020, proposes the creation of two lines of grants, one – it has already been said – to contribute economically to compensate for the reduction of the corresponding entrances to the shows and cultural activities cancelled, with a endowment of 3,5_million euros. Members of Parliament, I only have a mail that believes the action is already valid to access this grant. It's an eminently anti-bureaucratic subsidy. The second line of grants to support the financing of the operating expenses of enterprises and cultural entities donated to the health crisis situation caused by the Covid... In both there is no competitive competition. All that I've filled out the requirements is right. The Department of Culture has the credit for this endowment enough. It's got a history, it's got a history of combos that look like it, and it's a implementation study of it. And it's also worth saying that this type of help isn't new because it's like other subsidy lines that were already raised in the first confinement. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, this department has already made grants to cover expenditure on health care measures. So there are already these. These grants represent a direct short-term benefit: keeping work and work places direct to beneficiaries who have as their object cultural activities. And a better service to the citizen, because, we will not tire of saying, in a situation of health and economic crisis like which the acuity of culture has generated, it must be a priority for the proper development of society. Counsel, Members and Members, let me mention which eligible expenditure we are talking about in this second line of grants, because, thanks to the continued dialogue with the sector, it has come to a very satisfactory compensation case. And I'd like to detail in detail the good work and the open layout that denotes what I gave them before: gain to bring solutions. It is considered eligible expenses, the following, and I find it interesting that we share them here: contributions to Social Security for the special scheme of self-employed workers and quotas of trade unions and professional associations, expenses of the workers of the applicant person, structural expenses of the establishment where the professional activity is carried out, share of the mortgage loan, lloger of the immovable, maintenance and conservation, sub-administration, netja, insurance, management, administrative expenses and expendable benefits, no doubt. And taxes, taxes whenever they are not liable to recovery or compensation, and are not eligible for personal income taxes. And then expenses related to the dissemination and communication of the activities of the applicants relating to the eligible period. On the promotion of communication and cultural consumer campaigns, it is also good to say that this same divination of the Department of Culture takes a new line of subsidisation in relation to this, to campaigns of communication of promotion and cultural consumption. Therefore, the Department of Culture is doing the work that surrounds it. Let's talk about the other decree, of the 44/2020 for which is created the Cens d'espais de culture responsabilis. We start from the fact that on September 22, the Government of the Generality agreed to declare culture an essential asset for the development of individual and collective personality. And we think that we need to develop, not just that, but that we need to develop regulations, as all of you have asked for, for another band, and to accompany the concept of safe culture, which society has made its own. And it happened before the evidence that there were no resurgences from the cultural sector and before the bad weather that the cultural equipment found itself all and had been extremely strict with the disconnection and with the measures of disinfection and ventilation. This decree is a simple, anti-bureaucratic instrument, it is only a register to ensure, to the cultural agents in particular and to the citizen in general, that the cultural activity spaces complete all the necessary health measures and take the compromise, in addition, to make it public, with the adoption of specific protocols of access for all people who are used in these spaces. A more normative tool to deploy that culture as it is essential. Therefore, it is created the Cent of responsible cultural spaces in which these cultural spaces can be inscribed that offer security before the situation of health crisis provoked by the Covid, because they fulfill all the conditions that the competent authorities require them in the mark, obviously, of the Procicat. Similarly, these equipments and cultural spaces surveyed, through their art and their activity, are responsible for minimizing the harmful effects that social integration can cause, and are committed to working for social inclusion from the cultural sphere. Culture gives community meaning to society, and these cultural spaces, therefore, must be able to continue working to offer society the product of its creativity, and that it can be implemented programs of social inclusion immediately, whenever the epidemiological situation permits. Let me make an appreciation because the future interdepartmental table has been discussed here. The goal is to do it in this first ton around all the living arts. I end up president. Validating these two decrees is important for the people, for the sector; otherwise, it seems to me, that we would not know how to be on the right line of intervention before the protection, before the rescue, before the reactivation and legal protection that culture claims. I thank my colleagues and cultural spokespersons of this legislature, and let me also, at the end, go to the end, his patience and cordiality, and my conviction that the differences that we have are part of the esteem for culture and its people. But let me also say that I will fight because we all understand that without freedom we cannot have a full culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.168.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the debate on items 3 and 4 of the order of the day, let's move on to the following as these, like the rest, will vote for them at the end of today's session. [[Decree-Law 41/2020 of 10 November on extraordinary social measures in educational centres and in the field of education in the reading and extra-curricular activities in order to deal with the consequences of the Covid-19]] [[203-00065/12]] So let's move on to the fifth, which is the debate on the validation of Decree 41/2020 of 10 November of extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in reading and extra-curricular activities to deal with the consequences of Covid-19. To defend him and expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated, the words of the Education Councillor, Mr. Josep Bargalló. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.169.0	Thank you, President. I emerge, as announced and as is the order of the day to defend, to explain the contents of Decree Law 41/2020, of extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in the classroom and of non-school entities. And also make the point of its modification that was established in Decree 43/2020, which will be substantiated in a later ple. The closure of school centres last March and the subsequent confinement had an expansive tone that also affected other sectors linked to education, such as those of the upper class, that of extra-curricular activities, in a broad spectrum that embraces from the strengthening activities to non-regulated teaching of languages, music, dance, performing arts or plastic arts, made in the enclosures of the educational centres or made outside the educational centres. These sectors were caught in the lockdown. A tank that was extended until the end of the course and, in some cases, part of the summer, and in others throughout the summer. The health measures applied, moreover, affected their re-opening by September, which limited group members and required spatial adaptations. Once the course began and the increase of the contagions that we all know has stopped, the October 29 resolution of the Procicate led to the suspension of all the activities of high school and non-school that were developing. This new shutdown has resulted in economic damage to a sector that was already in a very delicate situation as a result of the shutdown in the last quarter of the past course and these cost increases that have had to be faced in order to complete established security and prevention conditions. And, moreover, at a remarkable drop in enrolment in the course and in this first quarter, the product of the economic crisis, produced from a certain fear on the part of some families of security conditions, the product of uncertainty also of time. In the field of extracurriculars, we find a great variety of agents, from foundations of a remarkable size of activity with diverse establishments and forces actors to small businesses, self-employed workers, associations of families of an educational center, cultural couples of a village. And this diversity, however, also occupies an important part of the population. Often, sometimes, maybe with the second occupation. For example, we have been talking now about the culture sector. There are many cultural workers who also participate in out-of-school activities as agents, as monitors, as teachers or teachers. We must add, to all this sector, the entities, also, and the owners and managers of youth facilities, often promoters of extra-curricular activities, often recipients of extra-curricular activities produced by other agents. If this sector is not helped, which is very diverse, continuity can be put at risk. It is a sector that is strategic and we could also say, therefore, essential at the time to approach and combat the emotional consequences of the pandemic on our children and young people, at the time of combating non-socialization for a time, at the time of combating the need for this effect. For these reasons, this decree provides for three types of aid to be boosted with an initial endowment of 20_million euros, which – and I would like to point out this – if it is to be exhausted, will now be expanded immediately, now, in the light of the assumption of the year 21, of the year coming. But I want to reschedule it. If they are exhausted, they will be immediately extended, now, because of the proper presupposition. The modification that was made a posteriori in this Decree Ill 43 of November 17th... Then I wanted to specify another thing because the mechanism did not raise doubts, which was the system of backup. To make two questions clear. All requests that come back to us take into account only if they meet the requirements, are present at the time they are present in the set term. All will be accepted if they complete the requirements, are present in the first second of the first minute of the term, starting tomorrow, or in the last minute of the term that will be extended for two days. So I made myself clear. They're not helpers who have a limit price, a limit amount, these initial 20_millions are not limits. And they're not some help calling for a petition. That's what we wanted you to make clear in this very timely modification that was done afterward. Who are these helpers? It is basically divided into three large blocks: week-end leure activities, post-school activities and out-of-school activities between week-ends and help to holders or managers of youth facilities. Because if we did a single line of help, we had the evidence that we ended up feeling unfair to someone. If you help them are linear, we are unfair to those who have large installations, they do many activities. If the help was by number of installations and number of activities, the contributions have been small, laughable at all, for that small association of parents and mothers of a school, for that couple, that autonomous one that does activities in the world of the moon, that small association... Therefore, we have already started this diversity of help to try to reach all the cases and try to be the most just possible, with obviously the limitation of the call for everyone. First it's a help... The summons, as I said, is still open for you to say to the nine and you will be able to submit your requests until the 11th of December at 20 hours. The first block is an extraordinary one-time aid of EUR 500 to federations, entity coordinators, non-educational federations in the event of week-end activities directed at children and young people of three years old and who are enrolled in the Cens d'entités jeunesses of the Directorate-General for Youth of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. These federations and coordinators of education entities in the school will be able to opt for an import of five hundred euros for each centre or grouping that is attached to it. In other words, to give an example, the Federation of the Escorta Movement will be able to request a five-hundred-euro aid for each of the groups that are registered in that federation. For non-federal entities, the aid will consist of a single import of EUR 500, because they are normally side-by-side, individual entities. The initial allocation for this aid is €500,000, expandable, as I said, if necessary. According to the block, they are extraordinary and timely aids of a single payment of 3,500_euros to, first of all, entities that carry out activities of education between weeks, between dillons and divers, directed to infants and young people of three and divided years. In the second place, local authorities, businesses and other entities carrying out extra-curricular activities, among which are carried out at educational centres outside lectual hours, addresses to children and young people from among three and divided years out of school, non-regulated special rule teaching, non-regulated language teaching, music and dance-related training, plastic and scenic arts, technology-related education, non-individual reinforcement and school support provided in approved establishments and sports not dependent on sports federations. Here is an initial forecast of 16,800,000 euros. And, thirdly, an extraordinary and timely aid in the form of a single payment of EUR five thousand for private entities, businesses and self-employed holders or managers of youth facilities registered in the Register of Youth Establishments of the Directorate-General for Youth, is to say, cases of colonies, hostels, school barns, nature classrooms and camps: EUR five thousand for each facility, which has already opened the term today and which manages the Directorate-General for Youth. This decree that I defend for your approval today for Parliament has other points that I would like to comment on. In the first place, a measure that wants to speed up and improve the coordination between the departments of Education and Health at the time of acting for prevention and health in the centers. It is a measure to allow the intercommunication of data between the two departments, which until now, with the motivation of data protection regulations, could not be done if there was no support for a law, such as this decree, which allowed us to share data, so that we would eliminate paperwork from the CAPs or school centres so that they would duplicate lists of students to whom the test was carried out, lists of students who were confined, etc. And it will also allow Health Department officials to directly inform the direction of the test results centers that are carried out with covid-19 motivation, because they can take action and, therefore, will also speed up the response of the centers with confinement. This decree also wants to be a tool to ensure that everyone who accesses the educational centre does so with the corresponding protection measures. Until now the subject of compulsory masking was an agreement of the Process, but as there have been some complaints before the court of some families for compulsory masking, the fact that there is a support for this obligation in the decree also gives more guarantees to the addresses of the centres at the time of demanding that all students entering the centre of the masking. And, finally, in an additional we will find, you find, the guarantee of the continuity of the individual aid of the fooder in case a center is to be closed or when a situation of quarantine or domicile of the students is produced, in which it is guaranteed the preferential system to donate the service of the students beneficiaries of the fooder in the format of menu to carry, that there was also some situation that had damaged some AMPA that managed the fooder, or some direction of center that the manager or some company that held the management, at the time of being able to collect the food made for the students that had not gone to collect them. This is also a guarantee here, so this solution. In summary, the law that I am presenting here to Parliament in plenary is a necessary and fair rule to enable economic aid to a key sector for the education of our children and young people, such as the non-formal, non-formal, unregulated, reading and extra-curricular diets sector, a sector that has suffered from a very difficult situation, first of all, from the closure of schools and, then, from the restrictions required. With these help we want to collaborate from the government to its recovery, with a system that I didn't leave out anyone and that guarantees that everyone can recover. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.170.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.171.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Education goes beyond school hours, and that is why the whole sector of colonies, school teachers and out-of-school activities is essential to achieving a full and quality education. In these non-Lective activities, you can learn a sequence of values that are more difficult to transmit during lectual time, where you will always have to share resumes that are wider than not what time allows. My experience has always been extraordinary, as a student, because they are the most fun moments of the course, and as a teacher, because I can guarantee the quality of the service they offer, and I have to admit that I myself have much later when I have accompanied students of colonies, because the format programs are always excellent, and they bring them to professionally motivated and well-prepared terms. But despite being a sector with a good level of excellence, both for what it does to facilities and to professionals, this has been one of the sectors most affected by this economic crisis resulting from the health crisis. March was when school was closed and we were all confined home, and March is just when the high season of colonies began. With the closure of the schools and the confinement, this sector carries in many cases between six and eight months without billing, and many companies run the risk of having to close. We are talking about small and medium-sized businesses that work for many people, who are often young people, motivated and well-prepared people. It seems obvious that we cannot allow this sector to grow, and it also seems obvious that aid from the Generality is coming late and poorly, and it also seems obvious that the Generality has not listened sufficiently to the sector, even though I have to say that they do not have exclusivity, because in general with all the sectors that we have met, they always tell us the same thing, and it is that the Generality does not listen. We understand that the management of the pandemic and its economic crisis is very complicated, we understand that the Covid took us all by surprise and that it did not come with an instruction manual, but what we do not understand is that the Generality does not listen to the affected sectors, what we do not understand is the constant improvisation and lack of coordination of the Government, because this generates uncertainty and legal uncertainty in all the affected sectors, and also, obviously, severe economic harm. Since the pandemic began, we have made a responsible opposition from Citizens, and we have not stopped to meet with all affected sectors, and from listening to their requests and needs, we have made many proposals. We carry from March presenting initiatives to try to give solutions to the companies affected, but unfortunately, the Government of the Generality has not done so to us, because the Generality neither listens to the sectors affected nor listens to the opposition. In short, Councilman El Homrani has dedicated himself to decreeing a menu of famous games, which seemed so good to him that he pretended that all the help was that way. In fact, the first version that we were delivered from this decree also included some games of fame, but Councilman Bargalló, with very good criteria, disagreed, because, moreover, it was a scandal when these games of fame were announced, and, moreover, it was collapsing the web, with which the scandal was double, and they had to go back. Before a catastrophe of this magnitude, any councillor with a minimum of dignity has resigned, but it is not the case. Councillor El Homrani, in his accounts of admitting that he is not prepared for the job, in his accounts of admitting that he is a disgrace that absolutely everything that has fallen to his hands has been a disaster, in his accounts of admitting his incapacity and resigning, has ceased to be people of the second line, who also have to suffer for them, because they have already relocated them, because that's how nationalism works. Causes of all kinds of misdemeanours, well connected to falls, and while workers and self-employed pay for drinking. In this 2020, which has not yet finished, more than four hundred companies have already left Madrid, which are in addition to the seven_ thousand companies that have left Catalonia since 2017. It's what he knows as the Mont-real effect. Their separatist delusions, the legal insecurities they provoke, cause the companies to marxin. To this, there must be added the lack of planning and coordination, and the lack of help. And from Esquerra Republicana, looking at what's going on in Madrid and copying its good practices, is dedicated to trying to harm the Madridns. They're like little kids who want to punch the pilot because they lost the game. Look, if you were to better the locals, if you were to better the small and medium-sized enterprises, if you were to spend money on improving the business fabric of Catalonia in accounts of their separatist and special deliris, the non-Marxarian enterprises; on the contrary, they would come to Catalonia, as they did before. But how come they don't want to leave businesses, if with you it's a nyap to go back to another nyap? Miri, in Madrid they managed to bend the crow without having to close the negotiations, and here in Catalonia one day they said they would open the night octurnal, and two days later they said they were tanking it all, and they were tanking it without notifying the affected sectors, and the innkeepers and restore it took them with the snow filled with food that they had bought and paid and that they could not cook. Miri, in the accounts of making the guitza to Madrid, what they should do is retail money to TV3. In the accounts of making the guitza to Madrid, what they should do is retail money in high-rises. In the accounts of making the guitza to the madrilenys, what should be done is to cut money into false embassies. In the accounts of making the guitza to the madrilenys, what they should do is retail money on a star NASA. And in the accounts of making the guitza to the Madridns, what they should do, in short, is to cut money out of their little syllables and use that money to help the workers and the locals. And look, an idea to start off paying millions of dollars to syringuitos, Language Platform, the spies of the children of the col·legi patis. We already know that one of the obsessions of the Language Platform is to control in which language the students speak at the hour of the pati, the fooder and the extracurricular activities, and we know, among other things, because they themselves explain it very clearly in a document that they made public. And now, with the fear that the socialists have accepted them to the Celaá law, they can control in whose language the students speak to the father and to the extracurricular activities. The truth is, it's a shame that the socialists allow the spies of the collegiate ducks to finish writing an organic law. But look, from here I say, we won't allow it. We are going – as we are already doing – to the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and elsewhere to prevent xenophobics from being able to control in whose language our children are speaking. The government is presenting us today with this decree to bring aid to the extracurricular sector and to the latter, after the complaints of this sector and their demonstrations a few days ago. Insufficient help and coming late and ill. Some poorly designed helpers, with a single payment and that they don't have continuity in time. Some help that doesn't take into account the structures or the size of the entities, and that gives them all the same, I mean, it's a coffee for everyone, in the worst sense of the expression. Some helpers that have graces as much in the background as in the form. And if for all that is not – it is not –, you still harm more affected sectors with a poor communication that only serves to create more insecurity and uncertainty. For this reason, we cannot support this decree, but as we do not want to be an obstacle either because we can afford these aids, even though they are absolutely insufficient, we cannot vote against it and we will abstain. That's right, we'll keep working to get more help and a better deal to the leurean and out-of-school sector, the same way we'll keep working to get more help and a better deal to all sectors affected by the pandemic and listen to them, as long as you don't. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.172.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word now, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the PSC-Units, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.173.0	Okay. Thank you, Vice President. Good late councillor, deputies and deputies. I will talk about the decree, because today the government brings us this decree to validate, a decree focused on supporting the education sector in the classroom and extra-curricular activities, stop the decision that was taken at the end of October to suspend those activities of children and young people, of school sports and extra-curricular activities that are carried out outside the school schedule, both within and outside the centre, and so on to stop or contain the spread of the virus. Since the SCP we have always respected the decisions of the health authorities to protect the citizenry and thus to stop this risk of infection, but we have also been demanding at the time of demanding compensation for directly affected sectors, as is this case, right? And in effect, the education sector has been one of these very affected sectors since the pandemic principle, first lifting of the confinement by March during the remainder of the second quarter; also in the third quarter, when many inscriptions were lost for the suspension of all face-to-face activity, despite the effort made in many cases to maintain activities in a telematic way. And at the beginning of the course – the counselor said, too – I am again suffering an important amount of material because, surely, of many families, that their children can be infected outside the school candy group. And despite the efforts made to adapt to the health protocols, to complete the recommendations, the conditions of safety or prevention established in the plan of action of this course, so weeks ago I was waiting again for a shutdown. And in this sense, therefore, we want to convey the support of my group, of the Socialists and Units for Progress group, to the sector, to its managers, many small businesses, but also its workers and workers, usually young people, with contracts that are often precarious, who are patenting this pandemic in the first person, with important effects of reducing admissions and with the consequences and social and economic derivatives that it has. And we also want, on the other hand, to insist on the importance of a sector that does not form part of the lectual time of educational centres, but that in change it is essential at the time of bringing educational opportunities, enriching experiences to children and young people, that equals knowledge and has a very positive impact on life paths, educational paths, especially between that student of circumstances that are more disadvantaged than they may be, so the many of these are lacking. And this week that he was commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Charter of Educator Cities, it is every time clearer that education went beyond the school walls, right? And that it's important to ensure access to all these educational spaces and environments, as well as out-of-school ones. And so, for a band, we welcome this decree which seeks to compensate a sector through the establishment of these aids in the form of one-off economic payments for both businesses and self-employed persons and entities, and obviously also for out-of-school students, before a fall that has been totally involuntary, and at the same time drastic, of their entries for the Covid. And on the other hand, we also want to say that it is an insufficient game, that the councilman himself said that he expanded in Decree 43, that we are certainly debating in the own Ple, but I say insufficient because we are already leaving a very complicated situation, right? At this time, the activity of the colony houses fell by 80_per_cent this year, the extra-school activities until weeks ago had been suspected of 95_per_cent, because there are very few activities that coincide exactly with the school groups, and only during the summer were they able to maintain half of the usual activity. Therefore, they lost the spring campaign, resisted half-heartedly during the summer, and again, they lost the late campaign. And so, the sector is obviously hanging on a wire. And so, as we say, it seems that the game originally planned was not enough. For what he does to the manners – I won't insist, the counselor explained them very well – but in any case, we didn't just see, and that's why there's a doubt about what the counselor was saying, which is done linearly, which we wouldn't share. For example, there would be the same company that owns a colony house as one that owns thirty, wouldn't it? For what I see, it would have been amended in Decree 43. In any case, we are celebrating this, because we understand that in this case the correction would be positive. And besides, as I said, we know that this decree 43 increases, for example, the aid for educational activities carried out by dilluns to divendres, which also equip themselves with extracurricular activities. But in any case, then, today we are debating and voting on 41, and so we wanted to highlight what seemed better to us. And on the other hand, a question that we did not like about this decree was also Article 5, relating to the procedure for granting these aids, because it established, as was already the case with the disastrous management of the help of the autonomous people, so this chronological appointment to the presentation until the game was completed. And that, therefore, seemed to us to be another raffle that the Government itself understood to be unworthy, and we also see that it has changed and we also find that this correction is uncertain, but likewise, the decree incorporates other important issues and that we see necessary. First of all, therefore, the strengthening of the effectiveness of prevention and protection measures at health centres. The fact of enabling the Department of Education communicates to the Department of Health contact data, right? , from alumni, teaching staff, PAS, educational assistance, other external staff who have contact with alumni in this educational environment that seemed to us to be needed to manage more effectively, so, the current situation, facilitate the tracking and tracing of viruses, because it has passed often, right? , that sometimes family WhatsApp groups know it before it sanitizes or the same directions of centers. It seems to us that you are uncertain, in fi, this measure. And secondly, therefore, the obligation to adopt these self-protection measures in the centers: that the mask is mandatory to access the center throughout the summer and that it is mandatory to compliment, except for children up to P-5, because it seems to me that this contributes to minimizing the risk of community transmission of the virus. But, finally, it seemed very important to us also to comment on the later..., an additional provision that establishes measures to ensure the continuity of individual food aid in the cases of group or centre closures, which obviously affect the student beneficiaries of these aids. Here, for one thing, then, we see with good eyes that you have tried to maintain the service's performance, but we do not just share that you're doing the menu mode to take away, because we don't think it's entirely prudent to encourage families in quarantine to lie down at the centers to pick up these shoes when the schools are supposed to be and they're safe spaces, right? From our group we had preferred, and so we also commented on it at the councillor's meeting in August, which had re-edited the money plates, because it seemed to us that those students who, in the event of closure of their groups or of the same centre and who were prevented from making use of the cook would have been easier with these plates, first, by dignity, to make it easier for everyone to make use of the most suitable conditions, and second, especially because they would not, therefore, imply unnecessary displacements, right? In change, in this context we see that there are many families who by responsibility or other reasons do not end up collecting these menus. That's also an added cost that's regulated in this decree, isn't it? , which, obviously, shows an important malfunction that puts in danger the viability of this system. Because, of course, despite the fact that the provider company can do the expense, it can prepare the menu, the Administration that manages these aids, therefore, can only pay for this help if the student uses it. And, therefore, we see that this changes this text. But from now on, I also want to say that the Administration might have to pay for menus that haven't been used, right? And, therefore, this creates doubts for us. It seems to us perhaps not the most effective measure. And as I said before, we believe that with the coin tags it has been solved better, as at least, for families or for the students. And on the other hand, therefore, we understand that, thinking not so much of families, but of these enterprises, we would need additional aid and measures directed at this specific sector, because, obviously, this complexity already adds to a very precarious situation caused by the decrease in the number of users, by the defaults of the food service or by the fact that these enterprises at times of group closure have to continue paying part of the monitoring service, right? So, we see that this is a complicated situation to resolve. But in any case, therefore, it creates some doubts for us. But in short, it seems to us that it is a decree that is well-intentioned, that it wants to give support to a sector very affected by the suspension of face activity because of the Covid, which, moreover, as I said, no? , it is a key sector of society and the foundation for a society that we want rich in educational opportunities, which must contribute to progress and cohesion and which affects many people. But we think I've counted better elements, which I've tried to explain, some in the smallest, right? , which the same Government has amended in Decree 43, which today is not an object of debate, like all persons and entities and companies with right to perform, so they can access it if they expand the game, and therefore it is not converted into a new raffle. I don't know what I'm saying, do I? this last provision, the solution found to guarantee this maintenance of the food service has not just satisfied us, therefore, by responsibility, in respect of the sector, because we share some contributions that strengthen this coordination between Education and Health and because they have made these corrections in their own decree, we will not vote against it, but we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pom, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.175.0	Well; good late, counselor, deputies and deputies. Well, in today's decision to debate and vote basically, as explained, so there are two things: the central one, which is to create an extraordinary help, right? , intended for enterprises, self-employed persons, entities in the field of education and extra-curricular activities, and the second, which is, therefore, a series of specific measures to regulate the compulsory use of mascara at educational centres. Our parliamentary group shares the two objectives of this decree. Actually, we don't have anything to say about the second of the objectives, do we? , we understand the need to do so, even though it does not cease to surprise that it is done in a decree of November 10, when we all know that since September 14th, when the school year began, therefore, it has established the obligation to go with mask to student and teacher. But in any case, we believe that it is a legal basis to be able to apply this obligation and we believe that this is what is done with this decree. But let us go to the central issue of the decree, which is that of economic aid to the education and non-school sector: it is obvious that the sector needs this support, it needs these aids. That, obviously, so we didn't discuss it. We do want to put the emphasis, therefore, on the fact that this is a specific sector, with some characteristics that the difference from other sectors, is to say, it is true that in front of the restrictions that we are patenting as a consequence of the pandemic, and that we all understand, right? , different sectors demand economic support. And we understand that that's the way to do it, that's to say, that if we have to force the closure of certain activities, then, that some of the public powers can strengthen these activities with economic support for the damage that we're causing with the closure of these activities. Clearly, when we talk about the education sector, the extracurricular sector, which has an educational dimension, here the thing changes, because what this sector does, the function that it has is an educational function, it is not an economic function. And, therefore, effectively, therefore, it is necessary to give the economic support to deal with the damage caused, but we must not forget that closing these activities is also closing its main function that is the educational function. And, therefore, in this sense, we do want to emphasize the importance or the need to put on the table the need for this sector, so, as far as possible, to continue to develop its main activity, which is educational activity. Therefore, more than having to operate economically and compensate the sector economically, we believe that the emphasis should be on ensuring, wherever possible, that the activity continues to develop, because of its function, that it is different from that of all other sectors and that it has a social function in the field of education, that we believe that it is essential and that it is very important, and then I will try to reflect more in this sense. In any case, more than what the decree does, it's the economic support, isn't it? Clearly, the sector of reading, and that of non-formals and non-adjusted teachings and special rules, so, clearly, obviously they've been very affected by the lockout, right? It affected, therefore, the houses of colonies, school teachers, summer reading, couples, all out-of-school activities, etc. We met – as did other parliamentary groups, huh? – If I don't remember badly, the month of June with the employers of the educated, and then they were talking to us, right? , of great affect, that they calculated that between the tank that was produced the month of March... Because, of course, we have to think that the houses of colonies, for example, the month of March went from a 100_percent activity, in spring activity, to zero. So, one day for the other, his activity went to zero, at a time of maximum activity like spring, didn't it? So they tell us that they calculated that between March and August they might have stopped..., or stopped billing in the order of 50_million euros. Therefore, the impact, only in those months, was already very significant. Clearly, then he arrived late and we found ourselves with two realities. The first is that there was not, we believe, an effort to maintain the activity of colonies, for example, during the late days, and, before the second day, therefore, the activity of this sector – of colonies and other activities offered by the sector – was already very reduced. The extracurriculars too, with a caiguda of the inscriptions, etcetera, right? So, we've already gone on a late one with less activity in the usual sector, haven't we? But then, of course, with the second wave the sector went back to shutting down and, therefore, the impact, so, it got worse, didn't it? And, of course, cologne houses, for example, so we have to think that 70 percent of their activity is from the old school, right? Well, that's the context, isn't it? and, therefore, the importance of the measure. Clearly, we do share with some of the previous Members that we understand that this is a very reactive measure, with a certain degree of improvisation and with significant planning deficits, and it shows the fact, therefore, that the measure has to be corrected, right? At the end of a week, with a subsequent government agreement, they draw back and rectify some of the decisions they have made. I have to tell you that if you brought us the decree here with the modifications that were made to it later, so we obviously gave support to the decree. But that's not the case. And what we're debating today isn't 41 and 43, but it's 41, and that's our strength, therefore, to abstain from this decree, even as we already say, so let's celebrate the corrections that are made to Decree 43, and so, therefore, we understand that in the end it does pull forward, as it should have done, huh? Why are there elements in this first decree of economic insufficiency, for the quantity, is to say, we are talking about 20_million euros when we already knew that the sector, in three_months, could have an impact, only on the educated reader, so 50_million euros, so surely they heat up more resources, right? ; for linearity, which is also correct, or for the procedure of granting aid, which costs us a lot to hear that another time in this decree again to bet on the procedure of setting aid in non-competitive competition by order of presentation. I see everything that... they probably rectified later, but in any case, this had happened before with other help and it's something we don't understand. The other element we wanted to highlight is that this is a decree signed for four councils: its councillorship, that of Education, which is the one that goes to defend it, also Workball and Afers Socials, Health and Economy. Clearly, that also makes us think that, oysters, we, June and July, when we were asking that we needed a rich education, right? You say to us from the Education Department: "No, listen, this is about work and social matters, and the pilot passed on to each other, and in the end we had an estuary that wasn't at all a rich estuary, was it not? Why, if we look at the data we have, the summer of 2019 at the leurean activities had about 556,000 assistants, right? ; 2020, down to 370,000, that's one-third less. That is to say, we lost a third of participation or assistance in education activities during the summer when we needed it the most, that is to say, when we considered that this study was to be used to correct, to reverse the impact that the closure of schools had on March. Therefore, we should go to more; we went to less. We think that with a greater involvement of the Department of Education maybe that's not how much you've been. In any case, we celebrate that now, yes, so, that work together the different departments to pull these aids forward, eh? Another element we wanted to highlight: the fact that this decree puts in the same bag a series of activities, that we already understand that they all need an economic support, but we understand that they are not exactly the same. And here there are, so, special rules teachings not regulated, right? , which are teachings that make much more than out-of-school activities, that go much more there, that in fact give place, in many cases, to professional careers, right? , for example, in the case of music or dance, or which are the gateway to training for professional careers. But they are professionals who, unlike universities or vocational training, start, so with post-compulsory education, say, in this case, no, it is, in many cases, music, dance, they usually start in years, well, much more advanced, isn't it? Much more... with infants many times seven years old, isn't it? And they're starting to do this. Therefore, the fact of having closed these activities, first in March, but then again in this second, we understand that it has had a more specific impact, that it must be taken into account, and that, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, it must make every effort to ensure that these activities can continue to develop. And I end up with a couple of thoughts, which I've done on other occasions, huh? But beyond the economic support, which I have to tell you we share, we believe that everything outside of school needs to be approached with two essential elements. The first is to guarantee access to everyone, to all the students, because it's here, it's out of school where inequalities are most striking, it's here where inequalities are reproduced, because there are some families that have access to it and some that don't. And here it is necessary to convert non-lectual time into public policy; everything that goes on in non-lectual space and time must be a priority of the educational policy of this country in order to reverse inequalities. And, therefore, here we believe that proactive action by the department to make this possible. And the second element is that it calls for a comprehensive and community-based approach to education and, therefore, linking the territory, linking the municipalities, in this out-of-school activity with educational plans around it, among other instruments. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.176.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.177.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselling, in relation to the decree that today we are debating and voting, first of all, what we want to highlight and putting at the centre is that all the ensembles that represent extra-curricular activities, between the social reality of our country and our educational tradition, which represent music and artistic schools, which represent sport, basic sport, education, all that is sport education and all that is education, has been and is a foundational pillar of the construction of our country and society; it is a foundational factor in the field of education, in the cultural sphere and also has been and is a foundational pillar of the construction of our society from the community of vision, and so on. Therefore, we want to claim and claim the conjunction of this sector in its educational function – in its educational function, it seems to us that it is very important to highlight it – and also its foundational role in the construction and consolidation of our community and solidarity and inclusive networks in our society. Therefore, this sector requires public support, and more in times of crisis and in times of pandemic. Therefore, it cannot be object of public policies of second or third order, no, no; it must be object of very central public policies, because, seen in its conjunction..., also in each of its parts, but seen in its conjunction, represents a fundamental sector in the construction of our society. The second thing we want to reschedule. We believe, in view of the facts and in view of the data, that they are safe sectors, from an epidemiological point of view, from a point of view of risks of transmission. They're secure sectors. Much more, surely, that other sectors of which the Government believes that it is absolutely safe and we do not share it, such as many work centres, on which, from our point of view, there is not sufficient action to ensure that this security is such; not to talk about public transport and public transport and mass transport in certain public transports. Only in order to give two comparative examples, we consider that, in view of the data available, we can ensure that these sectors of which we are talking are sectors with a high level of security and that they could still be more so if public support, the necessary support from public policies, were to be provided. It's more, it's sectors that I think are very referential and exemplary in what is effort to adapt to the situation of the pandemic. They are entities, they are activities, they are collectors and institutions that have made a special effort of reference and exemplarity to adapt their activities, their spaces and their social relations to the situation of health prevention for Covid-19. Therefore, it is an essential sector in our society. On the other hand, it is a sector that we consider safe and paradoxically is a sector that has had to make a huge effort of survival through the period of confinement, that has paralysed it absolutely, that suffers an important davalada of the inscriptions and participation, in other words, because of the situation of insecurity, uncertainty and the davalada of economic resources of many families, and that does not return from our point of view the public support necessary, leaving workers, workers, autonomes, self-employed people, entities and businesses very untimely. And in that sense we want to insist, huh? , we note the educational importance of this sector; where the school equals it, if after the extracurricular, the reading, the sport, the artistic educations equals it, what we build for one side, we destroy it for the other. It is therefore important to maintain equitable and equal activity in this sector as well as to give it its education. And that is why, in this sense, we consider that the decree that they present us today, for a song, is insufficient from the economic point of view; the imports, the amounts, frankly, move much more to the level of the almoine than to a necessary public reversal. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm the president. We don't have them all that, despite the change, we don't stretch the sector with a correct one, with a race, huh? , so that you don't stay out. Therefore, this is important to age it. And I don't solve a very important issue that is the equal accessibility of the entire population to this activity. Therefore, social and economic benefits are being brought to families in order to gain universal access to this activity, and, on the other hand, this allows for widespread accessibility. For all this, because of the need to promote a public support that still does not offer this decree, we will abstain. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.178.0	Thank you, Congressman. Tea, on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, says the deputy Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.179.0	Thank you, Vice President. Counselling, Members, Members, new Decree Law on Aid to another sector, in this case, education, extra-curricular activities, youth facilities, and the first element that I wanted to see in relation to this Decree Law, which I believe is that someone has already signed up and that is why there has already been a first correction, is the uniformity and linearity of the aid to each of the agents in these three sectors, isn't it? And I imagine that this is what has caused, for example, in the field of education, those entities and businesses that offer the education of dillons to be sold and others to be different in the week-end. So, some of them have been left with the linear import of 1,500, others have moved on to the group of 3,500, and I think that's a lot deeper. Surely... surely, it cannot be simplified as much as the help they require, and because it is also provided at the level of activity of each entity or person or enterprise that these help require, right? Therefore, this is the first element that I believe is ratified, effectively, with the rectification that is being continued. Second element. Nor... that's enough cross-cutting in all the help the government is bringing in in these months of pandemic and law decrees to try to compensate, is it not? It's disproportion; we also give it in the morning, isn't it? It's the disproportion between some help and some other help. Clearly, these imports don't seem bad to us. I'm sure to people, to many, they'll seem a little bit. We have already received a complaint that this is small, and certainly depending on the size of the entities and the companies, so these imports are small. But the moment we compare with other sectors is when they start grinding things up. I do not assign responsibility to you, I attribute responsibility to the Government and to the need to coordinate the measures taken. For example: bars, restaurants, inn; help was 1,500_euros, 1,500, eh? Well, and surely, depending on the dimensions, so, we'll be exactly the same again, won't we? : the lack of proportionality between the two. But also, for example, we are talking about autonomes, to which, of course, these same people..., the same autonomes that are intended for these activities could access help for autonomes and they could also access these help. In change, the autonomes are dedicated 20_million euros, as in this sector, and it seems magnificent to me for this sector, but, of course, there are no autonomes of 550,000. And then what's going on – what's going on. And, therefore, this disproportionateness, right? And I take advantage of the link with the next element, which is that it's less wrong that he had time to correct the chronological order. I can't even imagine everything... because that was November 10th, the day the government passed this decree, which was the same day that there was a chicken on the web to ask for help from the local authorities, right? And this allowed them to be able to correct... There are three possibilities with non-competitive competition: one, to exhaust, and, therefore, for time, which is the most common is who went first; another is to provide, according to the name of the requests, to divide the total departure among the people who have asked for it, and the third is the one who have adopted, to expand the credit, because all those who have asked for it have access to this help. Therefore, from this point of view they have been uncertain about the rectification. And the last two elements, right? , the communication of data between Education and Health, and the obligation of self-protection measures to the educational centres. Not to mention, beyond the course began on September 14th and this measure was adopted on November 10th, right? I imagine they've adopted him because later they've found problems and complications in the ordinary functioning, and so they've wanted to correct him. You can hear it, can't you? But in any case I also understand that we will abstain from voting on this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the deputy Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.181.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Counselling, deputies, deputies, chamber staff... Well, today, therefore, we again bring to debate, like all of you, deputies and deputies who have already preceded me on the return of the word, have commented, this decree law; therefore, in force since November 10, decree law which I believe is so important today the ratification, the validation of this decree, as later, in the following plenary, we also find respect for the amendment of decree 43, for which it refers to the elements that the same adviser has been explaining to us. And a new decree to give answer in the fastest way... I understand that I don't like everyone, but as fast as possible, and from recognition to sectors that develop their activity around education in the classroom, known activities, right? , this large range of activities known as extracurricular activities, which therefore represent training, sports, playful activities, and then also youth installations. This term, let us use it, therefore, some of the Members and Members, this "outside school to which we make a lot of reference, right? When we refer to this full-time education, it must be understood from the broader concept. And, therefore, to put into value all these activities, each of them, from its peculiarity, in the field of education in reading..., are important at the time of treating them as well as part of this education, as I said, full-time of our infants and young people. Since the pandemic, we have always been grateful to the educational community, from here to the Faristol or from any other place... we have been grateful to the educational community, haven't we? We did not speak often when we referred to motions or motions for resolutions: thanks to the educational community for which it represented the opening of schools and the continuity of the course for benefit, did we not? , from this education of our infants and young people. But today we also have this opportunity, I think, that this is also an altar to give thanks enormously to the entire readership sector, in all its extension, to which it organizes extra-schools at the centres, to those federations and coordinators as well of the readership, to so many autonomous people, as has also been said here, that most of the times they are young people, and therefore, in a precarious working situation. To them too, thank you very much for doing this task; also to the associations of mothers and fathers that organize these activities at the centres, and also to businesses in the field and at the educational centres. They've adapted to the circumstances. Thanks for the resilience ahead of the adversities and to keep putting infants and young people at the center of their activities, always demanding with safety and prevention. Because it's been said here too, we all know it. That is to say, these types of activities... have proved to be safe, as are the safe schools, and that is what you see, therefore, with the indexes and the data that we can have, diaries, respect the center; also these types of activities, because after there are many responsible people and old people because these activities follow. But it's true that it had to be sorted and, at a given time, October 29th, it's true that it's all about these activities. The result of the Government's willingness to make decisions..., decisions that may not please them, and it is clear that there are sectors that the decisions made by the Government do not share them, but, in any case, a need to stop the contagious, to stop the pandemic and to stop the degree of socialization, that many times is not the problem the activity that is due to the same extracurricular activities, but the degree of socialization that is generated around these extracurricular activities with seas and pairs accompanying the channel to the activities, that no longer form part of these bonbola groups or of these stable groups in the educational centers. Therefore, it generates a lot of socialization around all these activities. This measure, this decree of today, the one he wants and the one he sets up..., with these three ways, that we understand and believe that everyone..., his reflection has been that they are uncertain... Therefore, adapting and amending this decree with the incorporation of youth facilities is also important, right? , great problems – companies and companies have said this – when, since the closing of the March, most of the activities of the schools, couples, colonies in the spring, etcetera..., all this remains truncated. And, therefore, it has cost a lot and very much to mention that it has tried to reactivate the fun activity in the summer. Therefore, all these activities or modalities – forgive – are reflected in this decree. When it comes to talking – make a mention, huh? – from out-of-school activities, I think it is also important to matify those organisations at the educational centres, and therefore these have certainly not seen the measures of October 29 so affected, because they allow them to continue to do some of these activities whenever they keep stable groups in the activities. But it is true that the affectation, we say, outside these educational centers, in activities organized by enterprises, organized by private centers, organized for what we say, eh? , federations or co-ordinators of the entities of the leurea, have certainly been very affected. And from these also make a mention of the richness of this concept which we know as extracurricular, but which is also very wide, among the studies not regulated, the recognition to music schools, dance schools, but certainly also to all those artistic studies that involve an beginning, right? , a base, a quarry for further studies. Aspects of this decree, too, which I would like to mention. One of them is what we have been talking about now, which I understand from his words, so all the parliamentary groups, except the two that we support the government, will abstain... I understand that, with the content of these incorporations into Decree 43, then their vote will be favorable, right? because we're going to incorporate all these things that you were claiming today and that you're going to refrain because, well, this decree 41 doesn't incorporate what it does incorporate 43. So, in the 43rd, we see each other, say yes, right? At the time of the vote. But in any case I believe that this incorporation, in the 43 that will come, respects the concession procedure. And it is obvious that it is important that everyone who completes the requests, regardless of the order of the request, will have this help. And, obviously, with a game..., I think the councilman's compromise is unquestionable..., from the increase in the departure of these resources. Also remarkable are the aspect of data processing, so..., how to integrate the Cens Covid Salut-School. We think this has to be allowed, don't we? , among many elements, the traceability, coming out of the same educational community to make this control and this epidemiological vigilance, and the control of public greetings, which is a competence attributed to Health, and, therefore, all this links much work in conjunction with these departments. Then the course certainly started on September 14th, but it's also true that the course is a non-static thing and, therefore, things happen, things are detected, and it's true that some reticence had been detected in a few times that they had to assume the center's directions, such as the issue of self-protection and, in this case, the subject of masks. Therefore, we understand that this point, this obligation to adopt self-protection measures and to ‘standardise this aspect, so what it does is to give this legal support to the directions of the educational centres before controlling the compliment of these protection measures. Therefore, everything you need to give legal support to directions and, to put it mildly, to release them from one side of the task such as data control or protection control is important. And we also believe that this additional arrangement determines the department's commitment, already being realized now, because we have already had confined groups, we have already had confined students, and therefore it respects to guarantee the individual help of the fooder, regulating it from the criteria of this will of families, they will have to notify if they want to be users of this service, of the method of the distribution, of the costs, of the financing, among others. Finally, we value this decree as a new Government effort to respond to the difficulties that this sector has experienced in cancelling its activity or in applying security measures and space restructuring to compliment its activity. Therefore, we do, Counselor, that we give support to this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Xavier Quinquilla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.183.0	Thank you, Vice President. Councillor, Members, Members, this decree of extraordinary measures specifically addressed to the field of the world of extracurriculars, the world of education in the Church, as has already been said, linked to a proper decree that will pass to approval during the proper plenary and on which I will not go, because I believe that there has already been a thorough explanation, and on which, therefore, from the outset I have already stated that we will give full support, it is a decree that, in this sense, we consider necessary, indispensable, in order to preserve this sector. It has been said, everyone agrees, that we are talking about a nuclear sector, a strategic sector, a very important sector; a sector, moreover, that has been very much affected and continues to be very much affected by restrictions, by limitations due to the pandemic; a sector that is made up of a very large large size by entities without jobs, by small businesses, by local authorities; therefore, a sector with a little or no economic thing to be able to face an extreme situation as it is living, as it has lived and as it is still living, and, therefore, a sector that deserves the support and these measures that accompany the decree. Talked to each other, huh? , of the colonies, a sector particularly affected, a sector which from the first moment on saw practically interrupted its activity, and a sector, to put an example, which, moreover, has strong structural expenditure. And, therefore, they are sectors that really if we can't take measures with which we approve today, they are sectors that can hardly survive. And this is a central objective, because if we talk about a strategic sector, a nuclear sector, we need everything to preserve the continuity of this sector; a sector that is in many areas on the border, with borders with different areas: Education, Youth, Work, Social Affairs... Therefore, this sector also suffers from these borders, I think we have to be aware, borderless ones that in this sense we also have to make self-criticism: the Administration does not pose it, does not pose it easy, because precisely this cross-sectional work is sometimes complex to develop. In any case it is a central sector because it is situated in this paradigm that we call policy 360, which we know is a key factor of social cohesion, but also a key factor in educational success. And as one of the priority objectives of the educational policies of this country is to advance in the implementation of this comprehensive school model, of this model on this idea, this vast community 360, it is not only important to preserve the sector but also to advance precisely this integration of lectual and non-lectual time, of the formal and non-formal environment, driving collaboration between the different actors, between the different centers, in the march of educational areas, empowering, and has been named, the educational plans to go back, etc.; that is, all that allows us to give a boost to this paradigm shift. All this is done, I insist, with the maximum that is preservation; but not only preservation: we have pending assignments that complex situations such as we are living make more obvious. And it is that we are ahead of a sector, and it has been commented upon, very diverse, very plural, very atomized; it is a sector that, in fact, we do not know in the measure that we should know, and therefore, to which we will have to replace, to preserve it, is to know it, and this means, among other things, to create a map of educational services from a non-formal background; this means advancing precisely in this recognition and in its integration between the system. And we will not do so if we do not first have a forecast of who are the actors that conform, which is what they offer, who they are, who are the professionals that develop the tasks, very diverse and plural; professionals that we are talking about thousands of professionals that we understand but that we do not know in depth, from educators of fooders or extracurricular activities up to professional professors highly specialized in very different subjects. And, therefore, we are ahead of a very underground sector, but it does not only have an import between the education sector, but also from the field of labour impact, so it does indeed have a relevance that it needs to recognise. And, therefore, the preservation band, the knowledge band that we need, we also need a third pot to advance in this consolidation, and it is also moving forward in which the regulation of the same sector is; that is, regulation because we have to be able to guarantee quality, we also have to be able to guarantee their educational, social, also work, and we have to, from here, facilitate their integration, in an effective way, between what is the same system. And here I want to make an example of an exception, and it is that we are talking about a sector as if it were a whole, but if we look, for example, at artistic teachings, they are teachings that are regulated, different from the rest of the sector; they are teachings of special rule, they are teachings that we know that there are no rules and no rules, all of them regulated, and that is important. We have an elementary level, in this case, of music or dance that is not regulated; therefore, there is no titular gain. But I think we need to be aware that, without wanting, we have gone into a series of misconceptions, because, in this case, the artistic teachings of music and dance are not regulated, even though there is no need to develop outside the regulation, because that is why there are authorized centers and not authorized centers. I know it's a little gallimaties, huh? But it is important that we remain aware that we have a gallimaties, and this gallimaties is what has caused closures, restrictions, that have an important educational impact on students, on academic itineraries that, it has been said, have continuity over time, that are based on professional teachings and, finally, on professional expectations at the higher level. And that, we have to recognize that from the outset it has an academic impact that needs to be taken into account. And that, therefore, we understand that it would be useful to consider the need for, in this case, lessons that are regulated to have the recognition of essential service. It's something that would, in any case, refocus. But what it would also be good to rethink is this gallimaties which are called special rules, which, if I may be allowed the law, almost seems more like a prison rules than the name of some teachings, in this case, huh? Therefore, here we have an important challenge, and it is that we must give it the downside, we must overcome this model, we must normalize and integrate, in this case, the artistic teachings between what the education system with European standards would be, and above all, avoid these equivocals. Beyond this anomaly, I would say that the sector in its conjunction suffers from a global anomaly that can be corrected. So, if we really want to move forward in 360 education policies, if we want to consolidate the new role of the school as a piece that forms part of a plural, rich, diverse, community tableau, with many more fish, in everything we say, huh? , extracurriculars, education.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We need, therefore, to insist, to move forward in its regulation. First, in his preservation, that's why we're here. But also in his regulation. And, therefore, we are ahead of a decree that, I insist, is a necessary decree, it is a decree – I think we also need to be honest – insufficient, because the urgency is many and the availability limited. And let me remind you that with the endemic fiscal deficit that we suffer, so we have the tools that we have. And, therefore, more than giving it support, it should serve us to recognize that there are not only short-term deficiencies but also structural ones to which we must give an answer. And I think that here we should take advantage of it to place ourselves, to put ourselves to work and to be able to give this quality leap in the present, but also in the future of the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.184.0	Thank you, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on the validation of Decree 41/2020 is going to take a long time to get the new item on the agenda. [[Decree Law 40/2020, of 10 November, authorizing the creation of 245 seats of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[203-00066/12]] The sixth point of the order of the day is: debate on the validation of Decree Law 40/2020, of November 10, for which the creation of 245 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is authorized. You have the word to introduce you to the advisor, Mr. Miquel Sàmper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.185.0	Thank you, Vice President. Members, Members, I appear before you today to present the Decree of 40/2020, as the Vice-President said, which, as you know, was approved by the Council on 10 November. I will begin by briefly exposing the situation of the Squad Coast by today's day, and I will do so by remunerating myself to the security board that celebrated the year 2006. At that time, the Government of Catalonia and the Ministry of the Interior agreed on the establishment of the Fossos d'Esquadra office in the number of 18,267 members, after the deployment. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra came to hold at a certain time 17,138 agents, on July 2012, but as each year is lost effect for falls, for deaths, retirements, excesses, etc., which cannot be covered with interns, more than fourteen years later, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra currently has 16,864 effect; that is to say, 1,403 fewer of those who had been granted as a support to the Board of Security of Catalonia in 2006. In view of this structural deficit which has arisen, Decree-Law 40/2020 of 10 November was approved, authorizing the creation of 245 seats in the Cos de Mossos, which, in addition to existing vacancies arising from retirements and other situations, provides for the provision of seats to be included in the public offer up to 435 in total. I make a small mention of the global context. These points on the situation of the staff of Mossos, I also want to mention that the policies of contention of the expenditure that the Administration of the Government of Catalonia had to apply in previous budgetary exercises, at the expense of the economic situation of that time, have markedly limited the approval of offers of public occupation for the incorporation of new staff into the Administration of the Generality for a long period of time. This situation has ended in a special way in the area of security, as the Generality Police - Squadron's staff has been affected by the lack of incorporation of us and the impossibility of doing interims to cover these services. Faced with this structural deficiency in these plants, which places these bodies in a situation that is significantly deficient in effect– a situation that concerns us with those responsible for the Department of Interior and that I am convinced that they share– was dictated by this Decree Law 8/2018 of 20 December, which authorized the creation of 750 effects of the Squadre Moss Cos and 250 places of the Generality's Bomber Cos, and also by Decree Law 14/2019 of 17 September, which also authorized the creation of 750 places of the Squadre Moss Cos and 250 places of the Generality's Bomber Cos. From the Government of the Generality it has been decided to proceed urgently to the creation of nine seats of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra with the objective of strengthening them, so as, as previously commented, to complete the number of effects granted to the Board of Security of the year 2006 and to cover the structural deficiencies that pour the cos, aggravates, now much, with the existence of the health crisis caused by the Covid-19. As of September 2020, the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has a lower number of staff than the number agreed to at the 2006 Safety Board. In addition, the pace of time and changes in the social context require a new quantitative assessment of the size of the Generality Police staff - Squads agreed to by the security board in order to achieve the optimal ratio in relation to the population. So, don't forget, you can't forget, that currently the declared terrorist alert level continues to feel 4_on_5, which makes it even more urgent and untimely to create nine seats. Thus, as I said, untimely, with urgency, the creation of these new places for an adequate performance of the public security service results in, as the Squadre Mosso Cos guarantees the need for security and the protection of the people and benefits of everything essential to our society. That is why, in order to meet the needs of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and to complete the plan of government of the Dotzena Legislature, approved on 25 September of 18, the commitments made for the Government in its parliament and the motions approved for the Parliament of Catalonia, the 35/XII, of 18 December of 2018, the 287/XII, of 13 February of 19 and Resolution 356/XII, of 27 March of 19, the ladder proceed to the creation of 245 places of the category of movements of the basic scale of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. I recall that the Government, through the Agreement of 21 July 2020, ratified the Agreement of 2 July 2020 between the Department of Interior and the trade union organizations of the Generality Police - Mossos d'Esquadra on early retirement and other improvements in working conditions. In this appearance I make them today to justify the need for the measure, I also want to briefly expose them to the legislative context that has taken the measure that I present today. As you know, the Law 4/2020, of 29 April, approved the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia by 2020, and the expected endowments and credits are those that consist of the essence of the law. Also, Law 6/2018, of the general assumptions of the State for the year 2018, extended by the Agreement of the Government of the State of 27 December of the 19th, regulates in its article dinovè the offer of public occupation, and, concretely, in the part seven of the precept stated, is attributed the character of basic legislation between others to apart 1 and 6, and are precisely these apartments in which the decree of summons which the Government – and which today wins to defend before all of you – has decreed. Thus, paragraph 1.5 of Article 19 of Law 6/2018 of 3 July 2018 allows us an effect repositioning fee of 115_per_cent in relation to the bodies of the autonomous police. For what it does to the paragraph of Article 19 of Law 6/2018, it states that, and it literally reads, "the repositioning rate of one or several priority sectors or collections may accumulate in other priority sectors or collections. These effects are considered to be priorities for all public administrations in the sectors and collections listed in Article 19 1.5. Similarly, the repositioning rate of non-priority sectors can accumulate in the priority sectors. In view of the fact that the Government of the Generality is entrusted with the competence to approve the offer of public employment, and that Article 25 of the same Legislative Decree 1 of 97 provides that the Government may authorise the subsequent approval of partial public employment offers in the same fiscal year in order to ensure the proper functioning of the services, the Government of the Generality, under the impetus of the department that is in charge at the present time, has carried out the accumulation of repositioning taxes corresponding to other sectors or collections to the taxes of the Mossos de Esquadra as to the sector that is to be covered with priority character. In this sense, the creation of 245 seats of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra fits in with the repositioning taxes at issue, enjoys the necessary presuppositional coverage and is an imperative necessity to which it would like to give compliments in an untiring way. And, therefore, and in the use of the authorization granted in Article 64 of the Statute of Autonomy, on the proposal of the Councillor of Interior, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History and of the Councillor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, and in agreement with the Government, the Executive Council of November 10, 2020 was authorized the creation of these 245 places of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra of the category of movement of the basic scale. As you can see, this Decree Law 40/2020 is the demonstration that security is a priority for the current Government of the Generality. Security is a key element in ensuring the quality of life of citizens; it serves us to guarantee democracy, coexistence and also to protect people and benefits. And this we have to do with safety professionals who are well trained and with the right means to achieve it. We'll need to keep working because with these effects, with these places, there's not much, we need more, but this effort is what we've been able to do so far. We are working to strengthen the security model and emerge in a context of many shortcomings that, in the face of human resources, cannot solve with inter-internship and therefore we must act. Our country has experienced extreme situations and has been grateful for the dedication of these professionals who have been able to cope with these situations. No one can doubt the professionalism of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Let me remind you of a fact that I always like to say, and it is that in the past this centre of opinion was indicated that the citizenry scored with a set on the performance of the Mosses and Emergencies in the management of the crisis of the Covid-19. That, along with putting our guard down, waits for us to keep working because there's always room for better, which we'll try to recoil. Thank you very much, Members, Members, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.186.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Alfonso Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.187.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, councillor, well, today the Government presents us a decree law for the convening of 245 squares of Mossos d'Esquadra, the 40/2010, of November 10. From Ciutadans, we welcome this future call as necessary as it is insufficient for a body more and more abandoned by the Government. As you will well know, from the Committee on the Interior we have urged you to the satisfaction of the need to equip the Mossos d'Esquadra with the material and human means necessary to be able to carry out their work with all the guarantees of security, in favour of the citizens to whom they must serve and protect. From here, I am already telling you that we will continue to be equally insistent on new calls in the coming years, a task that you not only have pending, but you have also had pending all your predecessors and will have pending your successors. The situation of the Mossos d'Esquadra passed a few years ago from being complicated to being unsustainable: we do not comply with the ratios to guarantee the safety of the citizens. According to the unions, they estimate that the autonomous community of Catalonia needs around 22,000 troops to be well; not left alone, but to be as we should be. You yourself in your decree explain that we do not meet the minimum requirements of the 2006 Catalan Security Board, fourteen years ago, and we should currently have more than eighteen_ thousand and we do not reach just seventeen_ thousand troops. And all this coupled with us being on a 4_on_5 level on a terrorist alert. As you will understand, the concern is general, both inside and outside the body. Trade unions, agents and even society are aware of the internal problems that the Department of Interior has, so we can already imagine the irrespirable environment that must be lived from within. If that image is given from the outside, internally it must be hell. And don't think 245 new squares are going to calm the moods. The Mossos have endured the unspeakable. And that all the scales have united against the Government for the sake of the body and society to which they protect is a symptom that the department and its adviser have not been able to live up to the management of the autonomous police. They arrive very late, five years ago or even before the trial. Then these squares should have been called to the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. And now that they are opening this new selection process, we have a question: How will they make that selection? Will it be like the latest evidence of the Generalitat fire call? They did three tests: proof of knowledge, as usual, the psychotechnician and a new personality test. 45_per_cent of those examined did not pass the personality test; 488 candidates. According to experts in preparing such interviews and selective processes, such a high percentage of suspensions is not credible. In fact, in several previous calls this percentage was around 8_per_cent. As a result of the controversy generated by this test, the company marketing this test which was carried out at an external level, has withdrawn it from the market, and therefore also access to the result of this assessment, so that the applicants concerned have not been able to claim a review because there is no copy of the corrected test. Why are the results hidden? Why can't seekers conduct a personality test review? Because you perform personality tests of separatist purity, tests where your ideological profile matters more than your merits and abilities, it is essential that the personality test be favorable. You may have pulled a ten in the knowledge test, you may have passed the psychotechnic, which is an approved test, but if we don't like you the way you are, you don't come in. How can it be that we have moved from a stable 8_per_cent of non-fits over time to a stable 45_per_cent? We do not want the same to happen with this call for Mossos d'Esquadra. That's crazy, isn't it? What I just said. And there are some facts that make you sow doubt about this selection process. You have already tested these methods, you have performed a simulation with the Praetorian guard of the fugitive Puigdemont and former President Torra choosing those who gave everything for the homeland, where you were overcoming different personal interviews to protect former President Torra during his day and the fugitive Puigdemont during his free hours. Or worse still, Víctor Terradellas, involved in the Volkhov case, was found a booklet with which he allegedly created political lists of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra according to his – and I quote textually – patriotism, charisma, institutional loyalty and even sexual orientation, as reported by Gaylespol, the LGTBI Police Association at the national level. There were some extra notes, in this list of Victor Terradellas, that highlighted the qualities of several agents of the body, and I give you some examples: « very Spanishist, « militant of Esquerra, « very red, « voter of the PP, « very religious, « lesbian, among many other adjectives. And this list was prepared in view of the imminent application of article 155. They were preparing the structure of the police of the republic, his, easily controlled by the president of Catalonia who, according to that constitution of the republic that promulgated the four winds, would also, in turn, be the president of the supreme court – come on, a separation of powers in every rule, right? And, from this blacklist, some who were graced with good note were later ascended. So the blacklist of Terradellas had a real effect on the structure of the Body of Mosses. And, on the other hand, we have also seen the persecution of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra for complying with the law, for keeping themselves neutral to the political decisions of the political leaders. Those political leaders do not like a professional agent; what they want is an obedient and, above all, patriotic agent; they do not like those leaders who are professionals and who do their work with complete freedom. But one thing is what the politician wants and another is what is in reality. It is the Mossos who put their physical integrity at risk when dealing with the violent. In different places in Catalonia, especially in Barcelona, there is no political command – an example, this very Monday in Vilafranca del Penedès. It is the Mossos who see their labour rights cut, not the political command; it is the Mossos who want to work freely, and that, the political command does not want it. So Ciutadans will always be next to the state's bodies and security forces, autonomous too, of course, so we will vote in favour of this decree. Very insufficient places, with a selection process that we will follow closely, and that we understand that they bring it to the vote now, to which it is surely the last or last plenary of this legislature, as a political opportunity to whiten something – something – the Department of the Interior in the face of imminent elections. Necessary places? Yes, that is why we will vote in favour. But I repeat again: a call for 245 places will not cover the ill-treatment to which the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps is being subjected. And remember something, to conclude: we are here temporarily, but the Mosses and Firemen will suffer their mismanagement for years or decades. So I ask you to make your way through this Chamber at least worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.188.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now it has, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units, the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen... I would like to begin by saying that we, together with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, welcome this proposal for a decree which implies, therefore, the creation of new seats for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. We are perfectly aware of the structural weakness of the body, as the counselor had rightly pointed out. I also had the figures, therefore, from the famous 2006 meeting, which gave an expectation of the number of effects that, in fact, has not been completed, and, moreover, it was necessary to suffer – and I can explain it, therefore, in particular – so that because of the restrictions on assumptions for a long time it is not possible to make a set of promotions that have helped in any way to hold a number of square moves sufficient to cope with the situations that the honourable Counselor had to do with so much to deal with the pandemic – and we share this value that makes the conjunction of the city, positive, of the behavior of the Mossos de Esquadra Cos in this and other contexts – as well as the exceptional situation that has extended to the crisis. Therefore, we are, in this sense, tense. Therefore, from the outset, to us, this decree – and the declaration of entry because we will then make important matters – seems good news, and we want to make it very clear that this is the case. Because, in addition, they will come to us, and so much good will come – and so much good will come – somehow prejubilations. So good, because the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. But you fixed it without your intervention. Honourable Councillor, I said: "The question... – and I referred to it in concrete terms to the number of effects, I said..., the quote seems to me to have pointed out it almost literally, says –"the passage of time also forces us to review some questions. And you also said that for what you do to the effect name of the Squad's Body, because there are different circumstances. I would say that it obliges us to review not only the numerical question of the number of the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, but that it obliges us to review some other things that are also, from our perspective, important, and we would like to believe that you do. And that's why we want to make him a very concrete proposal, in this sense. And I mean, there's also a B face of this decree, which is a lost opportunity. Miri, counselor, you, last week, took advantage of your account as a counselor, so the bonds of the Home-Girl Equality Plate in the Squad's Cos de Mossos. This decree is a lost opportunity to respect; this decree is a lost opportunity to make a reserve of places in place, as was done in other police units. This Parliament, and with a unanimous unanimity of the parliamentary groups; with an important unanimity, not easy, with the police unions; with the view, therefore, of all the circuit that must run, therefore, a parliamentary modification, modified the Law of the local police of Catalonia in the sense..., proposed in this case of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance and also of the group of the commons, and was voted in favour throughout the chamber, in the sense of making reservations for the movements. And, in this sense, this decree loses this opportunity, and our proposal – and the advance already –..., we obviously will not vote against a decree that calls for places, but we do ask it to consider the possibility seriously – and this will condition or abstain or our favourable vote, and ask the other parliamentary groups that also make this reflection – that, as many times as they have rectified their decrees – this morning I have entertained myself to count them; from forty, they have rectified one –, no longer will come from one, we will be given a new decree or in the proper Ple or well to the Permanent Diputation, if I escape, so that when it is allowed to the local police's law that you are able to apply in this case only in case of the affirmative action. There are feelings that are very explicit to respect. There are feelings that say: between the basic legislation and the call there must be an instrument with the rank of law that you allow. Local cops already have it sorted out, so we all wanted it, and we have the work done from that perspective; the political work done, the work done in agreement with the unions, the work done in the drafting of the decree and, if you want, I read it very accurately and it's only dealt with... And this is the petition that we make and that conditions the feeling of our vote, that, in a proper decree, what follows, you incorporate the same article that, for the sake of this chamber, we put into the Law of Local Police, in the Law of the Police of the Police of the Mounted Police, the Police of the Generality, of the Mounted Police, with which we would be little equal to all the police bodies. It doesn't matter, two dilluns ago, if I didn't go wrong, two dimes, to the Interior Commission, you were defending – and that's optimism, because there's only one ple_sol left – the new law of the police of Catalonia, which would have to collect these things. Miri, we're more modest. We already know that we can't make these movie lifts a law of the police of Catalonia, but we can change, through a decree of the law, a precept that gives us a catcher. Because the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra that, if we compare it to the police of the rest of Spain, is very good and we should say it, 21_percent of women in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and that is to applaud it, things for its name, if we look north there, as it is known that you please the councillor and parliamentary groups, we have a way to go. And if you want, I'll bring you some figures: Denmark, 27_per_cent; Sweden, Netherlands, Lithuania, 28_per_cent; Estonia, 34_per_cent. There's a way to run. And it goes in line with what you said, and about referring to the textual quote that said: "Changes in society force us to rethink the number and also the police model. And I'm sure we can come to terms here with the police model. And last week, all of us, without exception, so we're uniting against masculinist rapes and that's a lot to see with the groups. And this morning in a question that asked you, you answered the skill, the good work that the GAVs do, the groups of attention to victims, mostly composed for squad movements, for women of the squad mosss. Listen, don't let this opportunity get lost. And we put it in place, because we want to make a responsible and positive opposition. I do not share many of the things that have been said before respect how the police in our country are selected. And so we are very aware that we have structural deficiencies. And we are very aware of the government's efforts in this regard. But listen, how much does it cost us to take this other step? We invite him in an explicit, clear way, so let him fight here and say: "Listen, all right. All right, let's make this change. There's no excuse we have to debate it in the Police Council..., that this is indeed a deficiency: this did not pass through the Police Council, this decree, the summons. And justify it in the memoir, and say, "Well, how do we already have the presuppositional thing... Home, that's already passed through the Police Council, that's the joy of consensus, that's the joy of political consensus, union consensus, redaction, say, that has passed the test of the side in this sense and, moreover, to finish the claus, it has given positive results. It was immediately applied to the Barcelona Urban Guard and it worked and the number of women who were able to access the body of the Barcelona Urban Guard so it increased in the positive direction, because as you said in your intervention, the society is changing. And that's a lot to see with the police model we have. After that, we'll have a lot more, we'll have a lot more because I've been entertained looking at a little bit of women's figures in the Squad Coast and it's obvious that this 21_per_cent is distributed very unevenly and that's not a response..., if someone's not responsible, counselor, it's theirs. You've just arrived and so you don't have it. It's probably the ones who preceded it. And it has the same thing: the basic scale, 19_per_cent; the intermediate scale, 8.7_per_cent; the executive scale, 8.4, and the upper scale, 6_per_cent of women. We have a lot of ground to run, in line with what you were pointing out last week, when you were presenting the basics of the work of the Pla d'egalité. Therefore, we want to make this proposal in good faith. We're asking you why... yes, I do, that you come back here to the gallery to finish the debate and tell us if you accept this proposal. As simple as I say: "In the very decree that I come, I decree that I come, I will incorporate this, so that the evidence can already gather all that we have so much and so much mouth, and that we would not want this to be a lost opportunity. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.190.0	Thank you, Congressman. There is now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.191.0	Thank you, Vice President. Nice late again. Good afternoon, Counselor. A little more than a year ago, we were here in plenary debating and voting for the creation of 750 new moves and 250 new fire stations. Our group, therefore, gave support to that decree, because we understand that the one, and the previous one of 2018 and the one that you are bringing here today, therefore, compliments a planning of creating places to reach that effective name, so that the Security Board of Catalonia established already in the year 2006, and that we believe it is necessary to be able to face the reality that you have today Catalonia, right? Therefore, the first question I think we should ask ourselves before this decree is whether or not Catalonia really needs more police force. And I think the answer is yes, and that it needs them to face the reality that we are living in our society today. A reality with multiple uncertainties, with nine emergencies, each time more varied and global; with nine threats, with nine insecurities. Therefore, in order to face this reality, the number of effects that the Squad Mosses Cos currently has is obviously not enough. We need to be aware, more so, that in two years the 30_per_cent of the mover template will move to the second activity per age, and in fifteen years it will be 50_per_cent of the mover template. Therefore, we have this reality. And that, besides, if the working conditions of the body are not improved, so, for the nine more places that is vagina creating we will continue to have a mass exodus of agents to the local police, we have better working conditions. Therefore, this is also a reality, the exodus of moves to local police. Therefore, the first question: Does Catalonia need more effect? We think so. Second question, in a pandemic context, such as the one we have today on the table, that it is obvious that it accompanies us badly, therefore, we have to ask ourselves the question of whether in this context creating police places must be the first priority of the country. We don't think so. That, obviously, therefore, in a context like the present, what the country needs in a priority way are doctors, are health personnel, are teachers, aren't they? So this, then, is obvious. Now, we don't want to make a big deal out of this either. And if we did not understand it poorly, in its exposition, even though in the decree it was not understood well or not explained in the same way, we understood that the repositioning rate they make use of is exclusively that of the Department of Interior and that, therefore, does not affect other departments. And before this situation, what we do today is: okay. Therefore, using the repositioning rate of the Department of Interior we understand that this has been felt, but at the same time – and we know that we do not have to tell you, or not just you, but at the government's side – that just what we are doing today, or what we are debating today about Mossos, we also have to do it – and we should have done it in a priority way – for teachers, teachers, healthcare staff, or university professors in the field of research, who believe that it is also strategic. Therefore, I know that this is not the debate, but we do believe that the message must be 'we must do everything. So, don't need a seat in front of one another and take care of all the needs, and this one today is obviously not one. We also have to tell you that we are missing the creation of fire stations, because as in the previous decrees of the 18th and 19th years, places of movement and places of firemen were created, in this only they are imbued with Mossos. The situation of the Bombers continues to be worrying, because we must remember, therefore, that at the end of the 18th there were 2,093 professional bombers, four hundred less than there were, that there were 2,500, but there were almost two thousand less volunteer bombers; there were between five hundred and eight hundred when there were also 2,500. So the bombers also need this, and if they want to, we'll take it to the front. Let's also leave a discrepancy to what is expressed in the statement of reasons and to what have you made reference also in your statement, eh? You come to say and say to the statement of reasons: "The policies of containing the expenditure that the Administration of the Government of Catalonia has had to apply in the previous presupposition exercises have significantly limited the approval of the offer of public occupation for the incorporation of personnel into the Administration of the Generality. Therefore, as if there was no alternative, as if this had fallen from the cell. And it is certain that the PP government led by Mariano Rajoy imposed this limitation of the contract, but it is also certain that President Arthur Mas invested the year 2010 – certainly with the abstention of the PSC – and the subsequent assumptions, until the year 2012 – approved with the People's Party, after the ruling of the Constitutional Court, but in any case these are other debates –..., but it is certain that the report that there was at that time by the government and the flag that arose from the government was that of austerity. So it's not that we fell out of the cell, it's that we decided to do this. Therefore, we chose this option, and now we are not paying for the consequences, of two years of detail. So it's important we don't forget where we're coming from. In any case, our group, in principle, will not prevent this decree from coming forward, but we do want to make four reflections. The first is about five agents, and here we add to the claim or to the proposal made by the deputy Swordler, who preceded me in the use of the word; therefore, we too will decide the final meaning of our vote in function, therefore, that it is committed to making this correction in a later decree, incorporating this minimum of women, squad movements, in the convocation. Because you can do it, other cops have done it, we think you're fair. In fact, I think we must all also assume the responsibility for not having done so before, when 1,500 seats were created, which we could also have used these criteria, but we believe that it is a good proposal and therefore also, we are joining the initiative, and we hope that the groups that support the Government will also support this proposal. The second thought we wanted to do is about the typology: is it more agents to do what? And here we do have a debate about the police model in which, therefore, we have discussed on other occasions. We believe that more agents are called to guarantee rights and freedoms, and that can only be done with a democratic police force. And, therefore, this has to do with what kind of police role model, what we're going to do with these police functions. We believe that more agents dedicated to mediation, to citizen security, and no more anti-evasive agents to Brimo and ARRO units, and therefore here we do have a discrepancy about the fate of this type of agents that were created, and about the police model, ultimately. The third element or third reflection we wanted to put on the table is on the territorial distribution of these effects, right? I mean, where they're going. And we all know that, for example, in the city of Barcelona, therefore, they are more effective in addressing the problem of thefts, small crimes, certainly, a problem that has fallen victim to the pandemic; therefore, we are also in a new reality, but it is clear that we came from a situation of insufficiency that has begun to correct recently. Therefore, it is true, therefore, that Councillor Buch has already begun to reverse this situation, but it is many other municipalities in Catalonia that need even more effect and, therefore, here indeed, what we ask of him is that these effect is destiny where it is most lacking, and that it does not contribute to increasing the territorial inequalities that the country already has in the performance of different public services. And lastly, the question that we want to consider is how to deal with the commitments made in the field of work, and here we do ask that these effect, right? , that the convocation of us effect vaguely from the hand, therefore, also to complete with those labor commitments that have gone acquired and to deal with the different disputes that there is in this sense. And here I would like to recall or refer to two motions for resolutions that our group approved, and therefore that Parliament has already approved, so, a few months ago, and that they have not just seen the light in the implementation by the government all and have been approved for this Parliament, huh? The first has to do with the extraordinary bag of hours, that is to say, it is obvious that the creation of new places trigates a time to become effective, and that, therefore, the places that have already created year 18 and year 19, therefore, trigates to reach the street, right? Those we believe today, then, will also trig time to be effective on the street, and, therefore, what we proposed and approved was the creation of an extraordinary bag of hours, right? , is to say, guarantee this bag of hours enough to reduce the impact that the lack of effect generates on the service of the Mossos. So there's not enough to create nine seats, but also to have an extraordinary bag of hours, is there? , permanent, therefore, that allows to face these needs. Therefore, here we ask compliments of this bag of hours. And to the second motion for a resolution that we also approved and that we did not just see materialized was the creation of a working group for salary equipping, where we urged, therefore, the Government to create this working group with trade union organizations to study the process of remunerative equipping between the Cos dels Mossos and the other special collections of the Generality. So here too, therefore, we would ask you to face up to this petition approved in your Parliament, and, therefore, to launch these two proposals which we have approved a long time ago. For our part, thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.192.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.193.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, this decree speaks of a structural deficit in the squadron's staff. Structural defects of seedlings in certain public services are very common after decades of retailing. We have approved two decrees of 750 places of Mossos d'Esquadra, 1,500 places, plus 245,745 places. Now there is an article that was published in Roger Tugas, which carried by title « The pandemic will take priority, and explain to us..., the set of priorities where resources are lacking can be observed in the chart that appears in the article, but the major changes are given in the sanitation, from 66.8_per_cent to 79.5_per_cent, pushes the demand; education, from 58.1 to 66.8, and investigation, from 73.7 to 80.6. In change, it seems to be less needed now for the population's conjunction to devote more resources to citizen security, which falls from 54,1_per_cent to 38_per_cent. Therefore, it seems to us that this decree does not listen to the needs of Catalan society. You were talking to us about Article 19 of the Law on General State Presumptions and Reposition Taxes, and so you said that they can accumulate from other sectors or collections, right? , to the repositioning taxes of the Squadron Mosses, are already priority or non-priority. Therefore, we have done the exercise of going to the Law of general assumptions of the State which are these sectors that consider the law to be priorities. One of them, according to 19.3.a, is the master, right? , « to the determination of the number of places for access to toilets of working teachers. The other are, for example, the doctors, "respect the places of statutory staff and equivalent of the health services of the national health system. And, therefore, this accumulation of restorative taxes from other collections may have taken advantage of, therefore, to increase the seats of masters or meths, but this Parliament has preferred during this legislature to make two decrees extending the seats of Mossos d'Esquadra, but in no case have we made any decree extending nine seats of masters or meths. In any case, we've done a stability of the already existing template. On the other hand, we have to say that today's security model is not a security model that asks us. Now we're talking to the Llogateres Union, and it's already 48,000 euros in fines for a denunciation, which was an illegal denunciation. I suppose the Mossos would also be collaborating in denunciations, and it seems that the Lluïsa, New Barris, with a degree of accredited disability, would also want to make her out of her home in the middle of the pandemic. The Government of the Generality, in defense of the Mossos d'Esquadra, kept private accusations that blindly assume criminalizing reports of the independence movement and that pose the red captivating to the prosecution. Today we want to show our support to Adrian Sas, sentenced to prison thanks to the particular accusation of the Government of the Generality. We also want to show our solidarity with Marcel, who on the very 18th of December will face a trial in which the Generalitat claims him four years in prison. And we also want to show our solidarity with the Josant, who is also asked four years of imprisonment based on these crimes of the perfect triad that you know perfectly. We also want to show our solidarity with the feminist companies of 8_Mil Motius, to whom the Generalitat also accuses. And, on the other hand, we also want to denounce once again the case of political, illegal and cyber espionage that is produced against social movements and the independenceist left. Counselor, you saw the other day as Taser serving squad movements. That the instructions are made public, that the opacity is over, that we do not see police actions of these characteristics again, and that a radical remodeling of the security model before approving new seats of Squadron Mossos. Carousel techniques, use of foam projectiles at a distance that is practically two_metres; the other day, in Vilafranca. Opacitate, lack of transparency, lack of investigation and some audits that the only conclusion that extrudes is that we have to increase the number of squad movements and do not make clear in certain police actions. We will stand against this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Manuel Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.195.0	Thank you, President. Councillor; Members, Members of Parliament, I would like to begin by thanking the important work of the State Security Forces and Bodies: the Mossos d'Esquadra, the National Police, the Civil Guard, and also a special recognition of the work done by the local police. They are difficult moments, they are complicated moments; always those agents at the foot of the cannon, in the street, sacrificing, sometimes, also their safety, their life, and now, in these pandemic times, also that of their families. To all of them, this great recognition. Today, however, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia brings us a decree creating 245 new places of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra; a decree that arrives at the penultimate plenary of the legislature. Mr. Counselor, you arrive at the discount time. Clearly, a decree with electoral dyes, totally; an increase, in addition, of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra that comes due to the pressure that many mayors have made, demanding that those efforts that the local world is making, increasing the local police officers..., that that same effort also do so by the Generalitat of Catalonia. An effort that has not been proportional, and it is the municipalities that are putting all the weight on citizen security. Therefore, a decree that comes with totally electoralist hues, that comes late, and that, moreover, many more agents are needed in our streets, in our municipalities, throughout Catalonia. You, in April, approved a budget, a new budget, and told us about seven hundred and fifty new positions of agents from Mossos d'Esquadra. It has been almost eight months, they have had time to call those places and yet now comes with the December discounts, with 245 agents from Mossos d'Esquadra. What has happened in these seven, eight months so that such necessary places will not be called before? It is claimed by the mayors, it is claimed by the municipalities, the municipalities, the cities. What has happened so that in eight months the Generalitat of Catalonia did not take into account that priority and that need also in these pandemic times? Why has it not been done, Mr. Counselor, before? You have lost valuable time in previous years by extending budgets, not putting the necessary places that today are essential in the streets of Catalonia. Today we have a staff of men and women, from Mossos d'Esquadra, which does not reach the seventeen_ thousand agents, a figure totally inferior to that which you yourself recognize in the media, when few, few, days ago told us that Catalonia needs twenty-three_ thousand agents from Mossos d'Esquadra, and that you also already pointed out as a possible increase to equip the local police. Look, we are totally opposed to the Government of Spain staying with the treasury remnants of the municipalities, but we are also going to radically oppose the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia wanting to stay with the local police: for nothing – for nothing. We don't share that spirit, we don't share it. Security must be a priority for this government, and it has not been. We are on alert 4, as mentioned above, about 5, terrorist. Therefore, an imperative, important need to provide agents, means, resources to the Mossos d'Esquadra, throughout our territory, throughout our community. Look, I'll give you an example of a city: for example, Castelldefels, with almost seventy-thousand inhabitants, capital of nightlife, capital of tourism of Baix Llobregat. How can it be that on a Friday or Saturday night there are only one or two patrols to cover the entire municipality, for one hundred and eighty miles of road within the municipal term? How can neighbors be called and the answer always be ‘ we don't have available troops? It is not a problem of the agents of Castelldefels, of Gavà, no; it is a problem of the Government, that does not provide the resources, of the necessary agents, that ask the municipalities. You are not doing your job well, but for you there is always another guilty: the guilty will always be the Government of Spain, will be the courts, will be the judges, will be the media cave..., but you do not assume your responsibility, which is to take care of the police officers, who are the ones who care for us all Catalans. And don't take care of them, as we have seen recently at the Mollerussa police station, where there have been infections of Covid-19, and security distances have been breached. We have also seen a lot of complaints from the police on the subject of clothing, equipment. You are not providing our police officers with the necessary resources. And I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Counselor, if you don't invest in security, there will be no freedom. You, who like the word "freedom" as we like it, cannot have freedom or democracy if you do not guarantee security on the streets of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.196.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Fornells has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.197.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good afternoon to everyone. We find ourselves in front of the debate and validation vote of Decree 40/2020 of 10 November, which authorizes the creation of 245 squadron movements. First of all, on behalf of our group, we would like to thank and give support, as we have always done, and the recognition to the pocket of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for its dedication, for its effort, for its work due to term in the last years and also for its professionalism, vocation of service and compromises, especially in the last months of difficult management of the situation of the pandemic of Covid-19 in our country. We must never fail to recognize the task that comes to an end, always with this maximum will to guarantee the security of our country and its people to the cent_per_cent. In fact, in this Chamber, on different occasions, we have been able to debate, we have been able to speak, we have also been able to agree with questions that have been made to the different Internal Councillors that have been in existence in the last few years, and they have also been able to debate and agree with different proposals for the resolution of the Internal Commission, the fact of soliciting and calling for the incorporation of the new effect of the Structural Fund into our country. Because, as we all know, there are structural staffing deficits, there is a lack of effectiveness recognized for the advisers themselves who have agreed to it – and on different occasions – for the different parliamentary groups. As has been said and commented upon, the Councillor himself has stated, Catalonia is currently not yet in the hands of the Squadron's staff and the 2006 Security Board agreed that the effective level was 18,267 officers. Therefore, we are still far from achieving this optimal and necessary efficiency. It should also be remembered that for six years, there was no new promotion to the Police School of Catalonia for us. This led to the fact that the Security Board of Catalonia could not meet for eight years and also to the issue of the presuppositionary restrictions that were detrimental to the fact that it could not convene new Mossos seats. Therefore, this lack of effect is obvious. That is why it is very necessary for this new decree to be able to expand these 245 new seats that are attached to those that have already been completed in the last few years, these 1,500 seats that have been convened in the last few years. And then it is very important, therefore, to take into account that in the future it will be necessary to convene new seats and also to... Apart from to cover this eighth level that was marked by the Security Board in 2006, also to cover those retirements, those lower ones, those dead or those, say, excesses that followed the length of the years. Therefore, it will be necessary to work from all spheres to mitigate this structural deficit of the body's template and also to think about the challenges facing us in the future, and more so with the situation that our country today suffers from the 4_on_5 level of terrorist alert. Therefore, it is very important to have all the effects that are needed, more at the level of the territory, to be well covered. On the part of our group we believe that this new call must be an opportunity to take advantage of and add new notions to the knowledge test and incorporate a new test of psychoprofessional adequacy. We believe that it is very important, in order to integrate more deeply into the evidence on different topics, on interculturality, is to say, questions of racism, xenophobia and its consequences; also on vulnerable social collections, on prejudices, stereotypes and racist discrimination. Also in this new formation we should incorporate themes of culture and identity, coexistence and social cohesion, tolerance and respect and also questions of gender. It is very important, therefore, to design, in view of the new promotion, an integral training plan oriented towards education in ethics, values, ethics and respect for diversity. More than valuing the needs of the different services to equip them with the necessary skills with the objective of having a police of the Generality, a body of movements of the reference team and to end with any type of discrimination or racist belief that there may be within the body. Training is always very necessary and I think we should take advantage of this call and those that will surely come more forward to encourage these new training measures to ensure, therefore, that there is no form of discrimination. Mr. Swordler pointed it out and Mr. Parés also, the need for the incorporation of moving women from the squadron into the body. We also believe that it would be very important to make a positive discrimination in the calls of Mossos d'Esquadra to cover the demand that there are more women moving from the squad to the body. Therefore, to be able to make a feminization of the body. It was mentioned before by Mr. Swordaler, currently within the body there is a 21_percent of women, we are at some high and high levels of the different polices of Europe, it is a figure of the most..., where there are more women, say, in the different polices of Europe, however, it may continue to work to increase the number of women and to try to reach more equal figures and figures that come closer to the reality, therefore, of the country. Therefore, we must continue to work in this sense. Finally, remember that these new 245 seats in the area of Mossos's security will help to address one of the many requests in the body– apart from all the other requests at the material and vehicle level– that we have kept at the length of the last few years at the level of the different trade unions with which we have been bringing together the different parliamentary groups, is one of the requests that have always been passed on to us, which was lacking..., this lack of effectiveness. For this reason, our group will support this decree. And we are all aware of the shortcomings, the shortcomings that exist and we have not spoken at various times. Therefore, to continue working to address it, we must all conjure up to continue working folds and folds to deal with these problems, to solve these difficulties. Therefore, I believe that it is unanimous on the part of all the groups, it has manifested itself on the part of all, despite the fact that I do not share the words used by companion Sanchez and companion Kings, as they have addressed this situation, but I believe that we must do so with responsibility, without generating false hopes. Therefore, we have to work folds and folds to fight, to work, to try, therefore, to obtain more resources, more effective and improve the situation of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Our task as parliamentarians must be this, to work, to pressure and to make it possible for all the shortcomings that there are and deficits that there is in the body, to reverse them, and to make reality... Therefore, this call for moves helps to strengthen the body and its staff and, therefore, we will work to make possible all the other needs within the body and to guarantee the future of our country's security. Let's get down there; from our group we'll do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.198.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Ferran Roquer. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.199.0	Thank you, President. First of all to thank the staff of the Parliament, who always 'lsha to thank, but in particular since there is the Covid, the job they have every time we change the deputy that comes out here. President, councillor, deputies, deputies, is the third time I've come here, that I'm coming out to this Faristol, to announce the favorable vote of our group to a decree that increases the name of moves to the service of Catalonia. I did it on two other occasions, Mr. Kings. I did so in the case of Decree Ill 8/2018, of 20 December, in which 750 places were created, which are the 750 places that have been incorporated in the presupposition of 2020, because now they start working. I did so in Decree 14/2019, of 17 September, with 750 more seats, which are those who are in a selection process, and had made my company with 500 more agents than the 2017 promotion. This means that there will be 17,369 police officers in Catalonia on September 2020, which was marked by the famous 18,267 effective Security Board of September 2006. This decree gives coverage to one of the parties to the government agreement of the Dozen Legislature of the Government of the Generality, which says, in one of its objectives: "Strengthening the model of security to guarantee democracy and coexistence and the protection of people and their benefits. To do so, establish that the name of Squad Moves is increased and set an indicator, an indicator to value the compliment of this objective, which is the name of Squad Moves in service. So, this decree obeys a planning of the government's name of moves. It also gives cover to Motion 35/XII, of 18 December 18, or two resolutions in the same sense as the Commission d'Interior. And I want to give some thought to the name of squadron moves that were agreed to by the Catalan Security Board in 2006. As the digit indicates, 2006, it was an agreement designed for 2006, with the population of 2006, less population than today. At this time, Catalan society, I believe, has changed its standards of quality towards security. Catalan society is a society that you don't see with good eyes the use of force on the part of the police. Since 2006, there has been an increase in the need for police to perform mediation functions, for example, to resolve conflicts. We need a police force to deal with the terrorist threat – said here, the deputies who preceded me: we are on an alert level 4_on_5. We need to implement a new civil security model. We need to deal with nine forms of crime. We need to create knowledge through police intelligence, create police knowledge. No one in 2006 thought it would be necessary to manage a pandemic that would prevent people from leaving their homes. Of these 17,369 police officers serving in Catalonia, 450 are in the second activity, and this involves a limitation of the duties of these people. In fact, if we look at the age pyramid of the Generality Police, of the Squadron Mosses, and we keep the limit of the 18,267 Squadron moves of the Security Board of 2006, the number of operatives in the year 2026 would be less than 16,000, and the year 29 would be under the 14,134 that there were in 2008. So... And, for what it does in second activities, taking into account the spaces, activities and the names of people who do in second activities, of movements that by psychophysical circumstances are not yet in retirement age, as there could be at most 3,900 people, 3,900 employees in second activity in Catalonia. It may also take into consideration the Agreement of Government, referred to by the Councillor of 21 July 2020, which ratified the Agreement between Trade Unions and the Department of the Interior, by virtue of which they may retire when they are sixty years old, or when they are fifty-nine years old if they hold loans of thirty-five years of service. This same agreement recognized the problem with the lack of effect. And considering also that each call is deserted approximately 8 per cent of the seats, because there are moves that do not just pass the selection process or give up the square that they have approved because they go to other things, it seems that all these circumstances make us think that the number of effects, 18,362 are few. In fact, if it compares the population and demography of Catalonia with other areas of the State, there would have to be between a 2.6 and a 2.7_per_1,000 squadron moves to Catalonia, which would make the optimal staff between 20.224 and 22.557 squadron moves. Therefore, it seems obvious that what the government should do outside of calling these places, increasing this number of effects, but we find ourselves with a problem, in fact we find ourselves with the problem of Catalonia, because the adviser who should propose this is not part of a government that has all the tools to make policies to ensure the security of Catalans. In order to increase the number of staff, Mr Reyes, he should go to the Ministry of the Interior, that Ministry of the Interior which had a minister who boasted that he had done evil the health system of Catalonia, there in that ministry, and should request him to have more seats. The Catalunya Security Board should have ratified it. I, mirin, according to data from the Department of the Vice-President and Economy and History, the State has a debt with Catalonia of 1,249,3_million euros of the financing of movements of the period 2013-2019. And this generates a recurrence of 111_millions every year – every year. If there was to be this increase in moves, I'd have to add 180-200 million more every year. And why? Because the State collects between 85 and 90 percent of the taxes that are collected in Catalonia. And these facts added to other circumstances such as what the adviser gave the Interior Commission the other day... Deia: "Listen to me, Decree 926 of October 25, 2020, which transfers some skills to the autonomy for the state of alarm does not refer to any moratorium in the matter of denunciations. And he doesn't seem to expect it either. Or that the reform of the Criminal Code of 2015 was insufficient for the commission of certain crimes of property type to end the multi-recidence. And I have made these reflections..., I have wanted to make these reflections because it is often required of the Government of the Generality as if disposed of all the resources that a government can have and not acting out of desire or lack of interest; it is a government bound of hands and few in security and in many other matters. Now we're going to approve this decree, huh? , which will increase the staffing by 245 police, which if we add to the previous calls– sum, eh? , we add them all from 2017 until now – will make approximately 2,500. Many of them – many of them – with the repositioning rate, because the government did not allow us to increase the seedlings. Well, that'll make an effort for the government, because every move costs €47,211.47_ and it'll make the increase in the budget when it comes to running as running, when it comes to running as running as these 245 moves, it's 11_million_566_euro. We will support – we will support – the validation of this decree, because it will help improve security in Catalonia and ultimately the living conditions of Catalans. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now the counselor has asked to intervene again. Come on in, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.201.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the truth is, I didn't think the validation of this decree would have so much political juice, did I? In fact, I didn't think I had to intervene a few times, but I think that for different reasons that I will now try to explain my intervention is necessary, I would say that essential, because you have said many things. In the first place, to thank Mr. Parés..., if it is confirmed the news, that it seems to be that Vice President Iglesias and Mr. Ábalos have just confirmed that it is forbidden the denominations while the pandemic lasts. Therefore, this claim that has been said in this Parliament in its parliamentary office for a servant, for you and for so many Members of this House, seems that it will actually be a matter of law that these denunciations while this pandemic lasts do not last long. I insist, it's news I just read to the press. I therefore look forward to its ratification. Another thing, I keep giving thanks. I did it to Mr. Parés for his part and I also want to do it to the deputies who have intervened in the construction, starting with the former Councillor of Interior, Mr. Swordler, also Mr. Parés, the same Mrs. Fornells, of Esquerra Republicana, in the sense that he said that this decree was probably better. And, man, when you said that on the part of Members of this House, and when you said, more, for an ex-advisor who knows the house more than I do, because there was a lot more time than I do to update it, I can only start by saying that I take the commitment to study this suggestion that the three groups have made, to study it. I know there's a decree that enables this possibility with a topall that the body doesn't have a 33_per_cent of female sex moves. So, as it's not the case, I understand that it can be done. But, ex-counselor, Member, Member, you will understand that my compromise does not go further than studying it from the legal perspective, and if possible, we actually have time to make this change. The petition that makes it a reserve for moves and, therefore, to increase this 20th percentile of the current situation and that despite the fact that it is a given, an interesting percentage, a positive one for many few European countries, it is obvious that it will still have to be better. I therefore reiterate that I continue to welcome this suggestion that it was made by three parliamentary groups. My compromise is total that will be studied in order to be able to last as long as possible with as much patenting as possible. It has been mentioned on my part that I think all the debate about whether it is necessary, if it is not necessary that today there is a priority in, therefore, expenditure dedicated to security. The CUP, for example, has literally said no. The Member of Parliament said that it was possible to argue, although he would not – I thought he would – make war on this subject, because it is true that there were other priorities or preferences that he felt might be more interesting. I think I have an obligation to convince them that security is a priority, and that it is a priority in the matter, above all, of Covid-19. As a result of the Covid-19, for example, we could observe that when the decree was passed – I don't remember the date, I would say that in mid-October – that it was the first one to have restrictive measures of speech rights, there were demonstrations, a divender, in which more than fifty contents were cremated, in which he went into trades he caught up – this plunder later was sold, at the end of a few minutes, for this Wallapop app. And this is the reality of what the Covid brings us. And the Covid brings us, therefore, moments of poverty – and that's it – because the restrictions of rights, and above all the restrictions of movement, have affected business sectors, and therefore this means that they have affected the workers, and therefore this has generated poverty, and the poor generates tension. And this tension was seen in this event, which was not only produced in Barcelona but was produced in Bilbao, Madrid, Burgos, with the same intensity. Therefore, security is a priority, and the Covid-19 makes this priority much more intense. You also spoke of the 4_on_5 alert at the level of terrorism, and it is also a reality. And don't forget that there have been attempts of Gihadist terrorism in France and in Austria, and always history shows us that when they start in Europe they come to the south, and when they come to the south they enter our border, and when they enter our border, for Girona, they arrive in Barcelona, a city of 2_million inhabitants. Therefore, you no longer need to go to València, Seville or Madrid. Therefore, the risk is important, and therefore the need is important, and very important. They also talked about the effects – that's what the former Swordler advisor was talking about. Look, if we're going to hold onto the gears – you're doing the exercise – of Euskadi or Navarra, they'll see that we're going to have to have between 23,000 squadron moves and 26,000, that's the reality – that's the reality. And the situation in Catalonia, as has been said, is today at the bottom of 17,000, and at the bottom of 17,000 with all the local police – after which I will mention a question that Mr. Reyes has said, which I have not yet heard – makes it very little effective, very little effective to give compliments to all the standards of security, but above all to which, today, the pandemic increases, and to the compliment of all the resolutions that arise every week of the trial. Therefore, these times, downs, in Catalonia, with the problems we have today, cause that, effectively, we have the need to cover these places, which are needed, more than ever. But we don't just have to go and cover these seats, we also have to increase the ground floor – the ground floor is what was decided on that safety board of the year 2006. In order for us to grow up, we don't have to grow just these 18,200 that we had on the 2006 roadway, but we have to equip ourselves for the routes that Navarra or Euskadi gave us, for example. And to do so, it is essential that there be an urgent negotiation with the Ministry of Interior of Madrid to push this roadblock. We can no longer, simply, reach these 18,000_000, because always everything that we are resting or losing – as has been said here by many of you – with retirements and second activities... And this is a task that has also been done. And we've got to get a hold of these routings, which I was telling you today, that they exist in Navarre and that they also exist in the Basque Country. Mirin, me, if I may... And I always try to be very respectful, because I don't like the interventions that I often want the lack of respect between fellow Members, but I have to say, because I am sorry: there have been constructive interventions, proposals – I haven't mentioned it yet – I think there has been some opportunist and I think there have been two demagogues. The opportunist has to tell you, Mrs. Maria Sirvent, because he does that, as the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid, I say it all, and he takes absolutely all the questions that depend on the Interior – absolutely all of them. Here, as far as I know, today we're trying to ratify a decree that mentions the bodies of Squadron Mosses – I think that's what this is about. And I think that a matter of political congruence forces us, or should we, to talk about what regulates the decree that is brought here today. But I'll only answer one of the things he said: opacitate. Let me tell you, I don't tolerate it. Because you know perfectly well that all the actions that have been likely to be questioned in the form, in the background..., you know, and you know firsthand, that a server has ordered immediately that reserved investigations be conducted, and has ordered immediately that when the contents of this information are contained, if they are leaked, they vacate the court or prosecution. This is the first intervention I had as an Interior Advisor. So, I'm accusing you of what you want, of other things, but this, really, and to your personal title – and you know what I'm talking about – would require you to have a little more healing, because you know it's not true. Then things happened that surprised me, surprised me, frankly. You, Mr. Reyes, have used a verb really read, said: "Stay with the local police. "To stay is to say how to steal or steal local police. I think you haven't read the project to unify the security system in Catalonia, between the local police and Squadron Mossos. A project, by the way, which has been written, I would say that, at least, eight or nine times. Counselor Pomés already worked there; Counselor Tura, Counselor Swordler, Counselor Puig, Counselor Jané, and this project did not intend to take anything from anyone, years on the contrary. It turns out that there have been many requests to raise the ground floor of Mossos d'Esquadra, many of them, most of them, in governments of the People's Party. And the answer has always been no, no, and no. And when we find out that the Spanish State doesn't give us the opportunity to take this foothold, these 18,300 moves that gave us the year 2006, fourteen years ago, we need to use the equipment. And why? So, look, it turns out that from these studies there is a clear conclusion, from all the projects that have been made by all the counselors, which is the following: the only command that you direct local police and squad movements, for the simple fact of being a single command, would generate an increment of 25 to 30 percent of efficiency, without any more effect. I'm telling you, I'm telling you that the union of things with one command, with one command and each in its place, generates a 25_per_cent more efficiency. Therefore, as the Spanish State does not allow us to take this stand, which I hope can now be done with a socialist government, which was not possible with the People's Party, which I can say is that, in the band of these negotiations with the Spanish State, we have the obligation to, moreover, with what we have, to be able to take it in the maximum yield. Therefore, I also ask you not to say'stay', 'take it, 'take it because what is intended simply is to coordinate the two bodies. And the local police bodies, Mr. Kings, will be where? To your territory. What is it that you think we'll take them here to Barcelona and leave their town or town without the local police? Don't be demagogic. That's demagogic. I demand that here they come to make politics healthy, clean and transparent; and you lie, as less better. That's what the law of Catalonia's comprehensive police system is, it's going to make a great deal of money to both of us with a single coordinating body. It's just that. And listen to me, Mr. Sanchez, I leave it at the end, because you've given us here today, so I think that an episode I don't know if it's politics-fiction, politics of action, if you really believe it – I'm sure you don't – if you're thinking that these are going very badly and therefore you have to recover that lost space from the process..., and you see here and say that the bombardment evidence, that you have a concrete proof of personality, that it's true, that these tests are girls to calibrate, it seemed to me to hear, "the pure independenceist. This gentleman, this deputy, said: "There are girls to calibrate the pure independenceist. Miri, Mr. Sanchez, this evidence is under study, because just as this evidence did not please you or many people of this hemisphere, neither did I. Are you listening to me? I didn't like people or anything. It is obvious that a percentage that practically up to 50_percent of suspicions, if it is not that it is at the last test and, therefore, is proof of cracking, is suspicious. You're right about that. If it's at the end, no, because, listen, you'll agree with me that if it turns out that there are only four hundred seats and they come to the last proof a thousand people, six hundred cannot enter, therefore, the last proof, whether this or the question that is done before, is cribratge. But since he wasn't in the end, I'm giving him the reason that the evidence, man, has to be analyzed. And the evidence is being analyzed. This way? For the Interior Council. And we'll see what happens with this evidence. You're not so calm in the sense that this test is already firm. If this evidence has the slightest suspicion of arbitrariness, we'll see what we do. - We'll see what we do, huh? But, man, I think you've been through not three people, no, three autonomous communities or three countries, because what you said is serious. You came to say that, in this proof of personality, we, the ones who did the proof, were saying that discarding all that person who did not agree with an independentist process or who was not an independentist. So, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: I have a personal thing of mine that's suspected, and, listen to me, it's sometimes more independent than I am. Images's– images's. You're not demagogic. That's terrible, what we've seen here today. And I'll tell you something too – and I finish, Mr. President – you said here today that, on the other hand, I seemed to hear from the government, the police were used. I thought you said that. It seemed to me that it was done that the body was not – from Mossos d'Esquadra – valued enough. It seemed to me to hear that they've been manipulated. So I'm gonna tell you something. Miri, there is a judgment of the National Audience, ancient Tribunal d'Ordre Public – ancient Tribunal d'Ordre Public –, the TOP, court that before democracy ugly for, because it was able to judge the people suspected of being encased, for example, in the Law of vagos and malantes, I think it is said"vagos and malantes..., and this National Audience has made a judgment that absolve Major Trapero, the intendant Laplana, the secretary general Cèsar Puig, the director general Pere Soler and that has absolved all the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra from the suspicions that people like you carry to the Parliament of Catalonia. But not only – and with this end, Mr. President – he has acquitted the people I tell him and the whole thing, but he has said that what the police of Mossos d'Esquadra did in October 2017 was exemplary. And I don't end up with this, he compared it to the Civil Guard and the National Police, and he said what they did wasn't exemplary. Therefore, I would also ask you that you never doubt here, at the people's house, the work of the police, that you never again remove the element of suspicion that was used, because even the least court suspected of being independent and Catalanist, applauded and congratulated you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.202.0	Thank you, Counselor. At the Councillor's speaking time, if there is any group that wants to reply, it will have two and a half minutes of speaking time. [[Pause.]] Yeah? So, in the first place, Mr Sánchez, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.203.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, what we need is transparency. In fact, when the tests of the firefighters occurred, questions were asked from my group, written questions entered by register, so that they shed light on this process and what was happening and why the candidates for these firefighters' places made a joint statement and a joint complaint to the Department of the Interior, because they understood that what was going on was violating their rights and also that it was supported and supported by the College of Psychologists of Catalonia, where they said that these results were not at all normal, and, moreover, that it was a bad practice of the Public Administration. So, I'm asking for transparency too. Because they did a CTC exam, it's a clinical ASD questionnaire, autistic spectrum disorder, and for nothing it's personality, as it was done so far. Therefore, this new change that you have made may be that, as you have also said, you have some kind of doubt about its effectiveness and its purpose. And you were telling me that I had come here to do fictional politics about separatist purity, which I told you. Man, then, explain to me how it may be that during all these years the percentage has been over 8_per_cent and now suddenly a 45, when the test in principle would have to be the same, but when the time of preparation came a subcontracted company put on a CTC test that had nothing to do with the previous ones. I'm telling you, if you're doing it now... you told me that you were doing an investigation from the Interior Department into this test, that they've claimed all the seekers that could be a bad government practice. But what if someone who's independent doesn't make you? What if they go to the College of Psychologists in Catalonia and do it there? Because, in the end, if you act like a judge, too, in the face of your possible problems, in the end, it's not going to be credible at all. And, of course, I support the mossos. You weren't here when we had the demonstrations at the door, when they came to meet with us, with Councilman Buch, the one who held his post...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.204.0	Deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.205.0	It's over, President. All support for the mossos, of course. What we criticize, precisely, is the politicians who are on top of them giving contradictory orders, precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.206.0	Congressman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.207.0	...with legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.208.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, Mr. Ramon Espadaler has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.209.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'll do it from the stand, and then we'll get away with it a little while, too. First of all, to thank the whole, the whole of the answer and the answer given to us by the Councilman in this line of compromise, and also to thank, therefore, the Members who have spoken respect the proposal that we have made to make this amendment of the decree that was brought here, particularly by common people, and also the reflection of the Republican Left, in line, a little, of which we have raised, right? It is clear that we need more movement of our Parliamentary Group, Socialists and Units to move forward, you are quite clear that we need more movement of movement of the team; therefore, at this point in time we have raised the possibility of voting against this decree. What I told him is that I'm listening, and depending on what you answer to us, we're going to sing our vote, and I'm going to tell him who this is, but it's no less true that we also need more squadron moves. And Congressman Roque has made some very opportune reflections on how from 2006 until now he has changed our society to respect public order and respect so many other things. And the incorporation of the woman also makes a police much more close to our citizens, and not only in those tremendously sensitive questions of what we speak this morning to the plenary, of male violence, also in the field of mediation, also in many other areas. Therefore, this is the ultimate feeling of the proposal and I honestly believe that we can agree with all parliamentary groups in this sense. We did it for the local police, why can't we do it for the National Police of Catalonia, for the police... for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra? , the police of the Generalitat, to use the expression that the law of the police says. Therefore, in this sense we believe – and trust you, counselor, and ask you not to let us down – in the words you tell us, that you will study it. Studying, he is. There's political consensus. The filter has passed, therefore, from the legal gaze, obviously, therefore, from the department and from the different legal services in the case of local police. There's a reasonable union consensus in that sense. Therefore, it should not be possible to make this amendment of the decree in a subsequent decree. We had proposed that the parliamentary group do something else, which was to ask for processing as a bill of law, but we would have invalidated the call, and that we do not want to do it out of responsibility, because, underlining that we are aware that, obviously, therefore, we need team movements, and, I insist, we need movements. You've talked to us about a lot of things, coming back a long way. He talked about the difficulties he has in relation to the government of the state, the difficulties he has in presuppositions, with which he has to authorize or cease to authorize...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.210.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.211.0	...the central government. The one we ask of you is yours alone. Counselor, don't let us down. We have this reservation in positive; it's a reservation in positive, not discrimination. We're doing a good job...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.212.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.213.0	...for the benefit of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.214.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Pomão, Mr. Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.215.0	The escho, too, President. Briefly. I simply want to remind you, in the first place, that we are debating a decree which only has two articles and which simply says: "The creation of 245 seats of the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is authorised. Therefore, this is the content that we are discussing. It's true... [[Widow's remorse. The timer laughs.]] During a long stony. [[Some applause.]] It's true that, behind this, we've wanted to debate, and on other occasions, too, which model of police is there, and it's... and as you know, so we disagree about the model of police. We also celebrate, therefore, that we have agreed to claim and have finally managed to put a stop to the misdemeanours during the pandemic situation we are living in. Therefore, this is a success that we have claimed and that we believe, therefore, that it faces, which also facilitates the management of a highly conflicting problem. And in the measure of what he was saying now too: a police thing with more women we also understand that it is a more democratic thing, and therefore, to advance to a police of greater democratic quality, we believe that this is a step that is important to take it forward, and so on. In this sense, therefore, we do appreciate the compromise, which we understand, therefore, will make it effective, and it is in this sense, therefore, that we believe that this is a good contribution to advancing towards a better police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.216.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Crida CUP - Constituent, the deputy Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.217.0	Yes, from the escho, President. Well, counselor, the difference between you and us is the concept of security. You say how we stand against this decree, security is not a priority for us. You also mentioned that the poor generate insecurity, but for us the poor are not fighting more police, and the security model is not the police model, it has to be a cross-cutting model. And, therefore, we also feel confident when we have access to education guaranteed, access to sanitation, decent housing, basic sub-administrations, and,. That's why, Counselor, more teachers, more teachers, more social educators, more psychologists, and also some quality public servants and less police. And this is our priority, the deployment of long-term policies that eliminate inequality and all those factors that generate insecurity. And, therefore, the participation of the police must also be for us only in those actions in which it is considered that they can make a pocket to give answer and to give support to the different problems that can arise from coexistence. And, in any case, it is essential to create a very different look in the police units than is currently the case. A look at the people's relationship that always starts with the idea of public service, according to the plethora of respect and promotion of human and fundamental rights throughout the population. And we talk about the whole population without accepting authoritarian attitudes with vulnerable communities, such as young people or racialized people. So it was denounced by the Synod of Greuges, or, for example, the organisation SOS Racism with the campaign "Stop stopping me, as the identification of racialized people has been identified during the pandemic. And, therefore, I believe that the difference between you and us is the conception of the security model, but for us security is and will always be a priority.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.218.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group... of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Reyes. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.219.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I tell you with affection, don't be angry, but don't come to lie to us, don't misunderstand my words. You just said that if we had the unique command in Catalonia, uniting Local Police and Mossos d'Esquadra, we would gain an effective 25_per_cent, right? He said 25_per_cent. Following his reflection, if we were talking about integration, if we were to integrate in addition to Mossos, Local Police, I don't know, the National Police, if we were to integrate in the Civil Guard, if we were to integrate in the Port Police, how much would be the increase in this effectiveness? It would be the 25, the 30, the 35, the 40, following your reflection, Mr. Counsellor. If it is to be integrated, the Mossos d'Esquadra is Catalan police, but it is that the National Police is also Catalan police, also the Civil Guard is Catalan police, therefore, do not distort my words. And I remind you that your boss, Mr Aragonese, is a partner of Pedro Sánchez. If there are current limitations in the law of the State, then its partner, its chief, that pact, that change the laws and that the police that the peoples and the municipalities of Catalonia need increase. It's up to you. Budgets depend on your partner, your boss here, Mr Aragonès, and the votes of Esquerra Republicana also in Madrid. Therefore, do not come to say that the fault that there is no more mossos d'ésquadra is the fault of PP. For you it is all your fault to the People's Party, the courts, the judges, the prosecutor's office, everyone who takes it against the government, but the reality is that, if you want, you have the capacity, you have the tools, you have the vehicles to get us to have more mossos d'ésquadra in Catalonia. It's his choice, but he's not doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.220.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Deputy Montserrat Fornells. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.221.0	Yes, president of the escho. I'll be quick and quick. We thank the Councillor for the compromise he has taken from the priests who have made different groups to try to promote the feminization of the Squadre Mosses Cos, which is very necessary, in order to try, therefore, to assimilate and to try to make the Squadre Mosses Cos a reflection of what is Catalan society. And we're also seeing how they've done it at the training level for non-discrimination in the body, which also follows this training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.222.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, Mr. Roquer. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.223.0	Also from the escó and very briefly. Only to show that one of the changes that this company has undergone since 2006 until now is the perception that it has about the incorporation of the woman into various spheres, and how not, in that of the Mosso d'Esquadra, and to express our certainty that its legal and departmental equipment will allow it to find the solution because it can incorporate a measure of positive discrimination towards the access of women to the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. [[Interview with the Government on the industrial crisis]] [[300-00336/12]] After this debate, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is an inquiry to the Government on the industrial crisis, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, has the word Mr Pol Gibert. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.225.0	Thank you, President. Members and deputies who accompany us at this last point of this long plenary today; that we are here almost quarter of a time on the evening, therefore, starting this inquiry. Counselor Tremosa, you and I don't know each other, we haven't talked at all, and she's going to ask why the working spokesman of the PSC, of the Socialist Group, asks the Industry Counselor, who usually asks the Counselor of Treball, which is what I usually do. I will explain it, because I also want to share it with your government, in a collegiate way, also so that you know why we are doing this inquiry today. And we do this because we're sick of asking Councilman El Homrani about the issues we don't have answers to; because we're sick of connecting with the Department of Treball and not giving us information about the issues that are going on in the day-to-day and in the territory, and in this case, also industry; and because we're trying to make important efforts to develop issues that concern us about the people we have in the territory and we don't have any concrete answers or actions. And so, before this lack of responses to the economic crisis that we are experiencing, above all to the industrial crisis that I want to refer to today, we have decided to ask you, to see if we are more fortunate, in this case, and get some more concrete answer about what is going on with very concrete and problematic territories that affect real people in the day to day. And we do so because we have a trajectory over the past few years of sincere collaboration with the government to work on these issues. From spreading my hand into many areas of the industrial crisis, also in labor issues, and I will set some example, because you see, as if we don't know each other..., I put concrete facts that we have been able to work in this Parliament. And the first was that a few years ago we put into this Parliament a pact for the work we proposed. In this context, there was no pandemic for the middle yet, but a work pact was approved with the former Government to try to put parliamentary groups, social and economic agents in the same table, to try to address what was then a very important labour crisis, and how we redistributed the effort before this time that we had very important transformation of the product fabric and also work at that time. This was the simple objective that we set out to manifest: as we brought together the main parliamentary groups and social and economic agents, and we found a way to deal with this crisis with shared, consensual measures, in a way that is as common as possible. We have also laid on the table, and more in its scope, different batteries of measures to address these industrial crises, before you arrived, and also during your period as a counselor. Because we see little momentum from the government in this transformation and we want our product texture to adapt quickly and try to spend as little time as possible with these complications that you currently have. Counselor, we carry some years accompanying company committees in many situations, often very complicated situations; we accompany them in demonstrations, here in Parliament, with management before their department or the Department of Treball; we accompany them to demonstrations before their companies, sending cards to their addresses so that they try to avoid commiements...; in short, trying to be a useful tool for the workers of this country, which is why in the end they have chosen us to represent them in this room. And that's why we're worried that in the next few weeks, we've seen a very significant increase in the number of companies reporting the tank or EROs of a very significant impact on their workforce. And let's clearly address the first industrial issue that concerns us, and that you obviously know perfectly well, that it is the situation of the industry that is patenting the car stop from the Nissan crisis. To the information that we have had access to the Barcelona Parliament, which you know perfectly well, that you have presented these last weeks tell us, among many things, that we have a total of eleven enterprises that are not Nissan that present a very high risk level, valued in five, and five additional enterprises with a high risk level, four _ on five; enterprises that are not Nissan, that are two more that have a very high risk of seeing health and finally closing also come out of this decision. And it turns out that my region, the West Valley, is the second most affected after Barcelones, with more than twenty-two companies at risk. In fact, if we bring Barcelona from the equation, the two most affected municipalities are Rubí and Montcada. What can you explain to these municipalities, their businesses and their workers? What proposal does your government have for these territories? What actions has the government taken to keep this activity and work places in companies like Robert Bosch, Alfisa, TE Connectivity, Continental, Faurecia, SBI Connectors, and a wide list of companies that I'm sure you know firsthand and obviously get to your consulting office day after day. And we know that thanks to this work, as I said, which the Barcelona Parliament has done, which has analysed and put into practice measures to try to address this situation that the industry has seen. But obviously the Barcelona Parliament is not competent in this area and it does what it can, which is already very, in this case. But it does provide you, counselor, with a guide: a guide to grab and have information relevant to what is going on. But, obviously, the competition is his. And then, for this reason that competence is his, he puts on the table some of the themes that concern us about his management in the last few months. I, miri, in mid-September, on the 15th concretely, mid-September, we took us with a headline who surprised us and said literally, "Tremosa angers the unions for giving false information about the Bosch ERE. To announce things of the Bosch ER when they did not happen, obviously, produced the criticism of the unions, as was normal at that time. There was also controversy to announce supposed agreements for the reindustrialisation of Nissan, which obviously would be more than welcome, but because they have not finally happened, and which has been denied many times by the actors involved. I also clearly said that, like the workman, I blamed him for the tweet he had made about the vacant pickets at the Saint-Gobain plant, and that he obviously put in question the right of demonstration at that time. There are also other things that concern us. You know that you have remained very critical of the Pact for Industry by some of its founding elements, or its founding actors, and, in fact, some have publicly announced that if there is no change, they will abandon the Pact for Industry. Obviously, we're concerned, because it's a pact that's already coming up in its years ahead of this industrial crisis, but obviously now that we're aware that there are fundamental transformations that are speeding up quickly, we believe that the Industrial Pact was a great tool to tackle them and that they don't really feel it at all. And a third element that obviously concerns us, and that you are not fully aware, is the premise of your advice. You know perfectly well that the industry assumption is very – very – limited. I'd say..., and I'll be, say, strict and objective with the words I'll make use of: – very – limited. Because if we look quickly at some comparative data, could you ask them, and you know it perfectly well, what was the expense that there was per person at Industry and Energy the year 2010 in Catalonia? : i eren166 million euro – 166_million euro, two years ago. Today we have 50; not up to a third of that 196 in 2010. And it's hard to explain that years later we are devoting a_third to Industry, when it seems to indicate, and everyone tells us, that the future goes through an industry that passes through the digital world and ecology. My question is: do you think that with this assumption we are betting for industry as a country? And we have had some authoritative answer on this question for her predecessor; Constellera Chacón made it clear: "No, this premise is not intended to preserve the business fabric in Catalonia; literally Constellera Chacón. And they're proving it these days, we don't have a presupposition to deal with what's going on in the territory, and it's normal: if we do a_turn for our immediate surroundings we can compare the presupposition of Industry and Energy per inhabitant with other communities. We look at the year 2019: the Basque Country devoted 11_euros per inhabitant; Extremadura devoted 18_euros per inhabitant; Balearic Islands, 21; Asturias, 33; the Valencian Community, see our competitors also to capture industrial investment, dedicates 42_euros per inhabitant. And how much are we going to Catalonia? : 7.5_euros per inhabitant; we are very far away from our industrial competitors. It is very difficult to explain that the disinvestment made by the Government of Catalonia in industry is due to an objective cause. With a supposition, what is more than 27,000_million euros, do they dedicate 50_millions? Counselor, we're facing a tsunami with a canoe. And, obviously, it still seems to venture that the return will not be positive. I want to ask you, given that a lot of people depend on this industry, that we all agree that the industry is fit for our country, what plans does the government have to capture projects and reindustrialize Catalonia? Do you count on the joints to add strength to these plans? And I'd think about it, too. The Government of the State has put on the table €3,000_million for industry more than 5,000 for economic transition. Very important resources obviously accompanied by the European fund that must also come. How does the Government of Catalonia intend to accompany these efforts, this reversal, why is it a reality in Catalonia? I think it's important, counselor – and it will prove that the whole of my inquiry has not been much less aggressive, but purposeful – than giving concrete answers to these projects. Because we're facing day-to-day dialogues with workers who are patenting this industrial crisis. It's not an orchestrated problem, it's a very real problem that affects people's drawings every day. You'll need to have an explanation, a follow-up. We've learned that some of these very important companies, with hundreds of workers involved, haven't even had a call from the industry or work council, depending on the case, that accompanied them. That's what we're worried about. Because, obviously, they know it's complicated. As I said to the beginning, let's not expect there to be miracles to solve any of these cases, but we do ask for a minimum of support from these whitewashed workers who are struggling for their future work. People who in many cases have devoted years to training, who have a powerful career path, who have a wealth that they can bring to the country. And what Europe is telling us is that this is the future, the industry. And what we can't afford is to put them back in these delicate moments. Therefore, counselor, ask him if he can clarify these doubts and give us a little light on his industrial project.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.226.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the word, the Business and Knowledge Advisor, Mr. Ramon Tremosa. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.227.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My honourable Member, I thank you for your intervention, which on my part is always trying to be built. You see, I've always thought that industry is a strategic sector for a country. In fact, if you look at the 2008 crisis, which was a financial crisis, the countries that resisted it were the countries with a major percentage of industrial pes: Germany, Central Europe, North Europe. They are countries that, thanks to their network of multinationals and pimes, also caixas d'estalvi, that did not fail like the great European bank in terms of financing of credit, so they allowed them to resist the crisis better, than the one that was even lower. And so, so, I know an industrialist conviction. The industry generates high productivity, therefore, allows it to pay high wages. This means that social contributions are high and, therefore, that in the future, there may be public policies to benefit. So, in that sense, so, totally okay, right? , that industry is a key sector. And I share it with you, don't I? If you're asking me about the Enterprise Department's presupposition. Totally insufficient. That is to say, when we bring the 1,300_million of universities, there are 275_million left for energy, industry, tourism, trade, consumption, Action, which is the great agency of internationalization, the Catalan Agency of Tourism, the Catalan Agency of Consumer Affairs. So it's clearly insufficient, isn't it? And, in this sense, therefore, the own advisor of Enterprise and Universities, in the very premise – that if President Torra had not been disqualified now we would be, let's say, elaborate – therefore, he will have to put himself on the ground, eh? Also the university suffers a slow decline, has lost almost a point and a half in the last two years of the Generality's assumption. The National Agreement for the Knowledge Society already provides for a consensual and approved route for everyone to recover this, but it will cost a lot because there are very noble causes where very legitimately different advisors at the time of making the assumption lie. And, therefore, that can't be denied, can it? But anyway, very much in agreement with that, right? , that industry is very important. And in this sense, we agree. So, well, I'm wearing... I'm still in practice as a counselor, I'm not wearing three months with what you say. And so, so, I tried to help when she asked me. And in some cases of some companies that have asked me for my physical presence, I went there. And I called business committee presidents from different companies when they asked me to. And maybe I'll put on where I don't ask, huh? , because when a company presents an ERTO, it is already a topic of Work. And then the business advisor came to us. We, in theory, with the Director General of Industry, Matilde Villarroya, are designing an early warning system to detect those companies that have a delicate situation to intervene before the company formulates an ERTO. Because then, if it's a multinational company, this decision is very hard to reverse. So, so, we're working with this... and I could bring it up very quickly on this subject, because we also have a list of companies that are at risk of possible relocation or closure of work lines. And so, in that sense, then, right? I'd be very interested. I was at the hospital with the mayor and president of the parliament, we had a long conversation, we were practically three hours talking about different things. And, therefore, my disposition in the institutional unit that I understand requires this crisis, so there is everything and I am at your disposition. We have good news, in the sense that world trade is recovering very quickly in Asia and America, especially in northern Europe. And, therefore, for the short time that cows or fast, reliable and cheap texts work, it is to expect a rebound from the European economy in the coming year. And that's a lot of good news because, if the crisis of 2008-2012, which in Spain has worsened with the debt crisis will rise, it has been very long to overcome, five, six, seven years, according to what it looks like, so now we have a lot of clues that there can be a quick recovery, right? What happens is that clearly, when you talk about what the Generality dedicates to industry – that I share the opinion of the former will advise that it is totally insufficient–, well, you know the limitations of the Generality's assumption and its financing model, which has expired since 2014. The LOFCA... So, we're in the clouds, we're out of the law from this point of view, aren't we? And we would rather have a financing system like Navarre or the Basque Country that allows us to collect all the taxes and with the money to the butxaca negotiate the quota that is paid to the Spanish State. And so, so, well, the creature cries of a shared responsibility and, in its case, as a member of the Socialist Party, so well, the PSOE has ruled, brings two years to the government, more than two years and, therefore, could have done something in this sense, but we haven't done it, have we? And, therefore, let's just say: the Spanish State has the great capacity for industrial intervention, because it collects 95_percent of the taxes in Catalonia, and it has a much greater firepower than the Generality. Miri, in my department this year we're closing the year with 250_million euros in additional grants, huh? , help to trade, catering and hotel, tourism, industry– the last announcement, 13_million, which came out in the newspaper a few days ago–, and this I must recognize that they are transfers that have been rejected from the Spanish government, because we have neither had the capacity; from a premise of 275, we don't have the capacity to give 250, because you know the structure of expenditure which is, in our department. But, well, the Spanish government collects all taxes, the European Central Bank buys them from the public every month, in large quantities, to a very low type of interest, there are lines of credit, the SURE and the Mede, available for the Spanish State – the SURE was asked on August 3, expanded two days ago; the Mede has not yet asked – there is the European Fund for Reconstruction and Recovery, to arrive at the spring that sees... So, never before is a country that has a 12-per-cent GDP fall, like Spain, which is doubling the 2008 fall – it is practically comparable to a bilateral conflict, the GDP fall – which is in normal conditions, outside the euro and the European Central Bank, of this umbrella that we have, would have possibly caused many tensions in terms of risk premiums, suspension of payments, etc., so here there is a great capacity to intervene... And the question is why the Bank of Spain in August said in a report: "The Spanish State is the country that the least direct aid has done to businesses, the least tax has frozen and, therefore, the fall is stronger. That is what the Bank of Spain has been saying since June and it has been said by the International Monetary Fund and other bodies, the European Commission, it has been said in the last few weeks. And, therefore, the responsibility here is yours. I have to tell him and I have to recognize him in his parliamentary office that when I called Raül Blanco, I called him to say: "Listen, I am entering a meeting with the business committee, of this company that I want to close, and we are also entering the marriage of Germany or France. Would you come in for Zoom, too? "Yes, and there has been, and we have been able to offer an image of the Government of the State and Generality of Catalonia together, to offer reindustrialisation plans, capital injections. We've done this. I also recognize Mr. Raül Blanco that you have the detail of visiting the company Silence, when he cremated. And it's a detail that I publicly appreciate and recognize. But well, the Generality, on fifteen days, was able to put a direct endorsement of the Directorate General of Industry to Silence, a credit of the ICF, to finance the reconstruction while the insurance does not come up. And also, as you know, Silence has a participation of the public enterprise Avançsa, of our department, which injected it with an initial urge to start walking, this company that is already European leader of motorcycles. Therefore, Catalonia forty years later is back to a leading company in Europe in the motorcycle sector. And we've been able to freeze the payment of interest in this participation that pays us every year. The ministry was slower, and today we are not aware of it – the visit was very good and pleasant, from the Secretary of State of Industry – that the ministry could have brought some kind of additional help to Silence, which is a company, therefore, that its fabulous expansion plan is touched by the fire of the Molins de Rei plant. I'm glad Sant Boi's works very well. European funds? So good is the channel to industry, according to the precise framework set by the European Union: digitisation, climate change, sustainable mobility, renewable energies. But well, you know that the European foundations have centered in Spain. Autonomous communities have all been left out of the process of channeling and identifying projects. We're also out of the decision-making process that you're going to take on how these funds will be distributed. Well, here we have that responsibility for this great hope of re-industrializing ourselves also falls to the central government in the cent_per_cent. Therefore, here you will find the Government of the Generality willing to work together, but well, the responsibility will not be ours if these money is intended to pay for high-speed trains or ghost airports or highways that go from a place where there is nothing to a place where there is no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.228.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, the deputy has a new turn. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.229.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your answers to some of the issues. But I wanted to re-emphasize one that seems to me cabdal, which is... You obviously posed the pilot, let's just say, where you're close to putting it, but I also wanted to position: escorts, Catalonia has enough capacity to articulate projects that are suitable in the framework of European foundations. Obviously, if they have the joints, so does the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, the Generality and other actors who can clearly articulate this response. And here's where I also want to do this reflection, which you did at some point, to say, "Where are we going?" Where should we devote our limited efforts, of course, but where do we want to evolve? And I'm making him some offer. We have sectors that are very powerful in Catalonia, that have to have a transformation yes or yes or we will have problems, obviously, of environmental sustainability as well as of digital inclusiveness. And there are three very clearly situated, and that the European Union has also said, that they are: agri-food, chemistry and automotive. We have them clearly located on the map. Very important for the territory, because they turn the territory into different parts, because they are not only industries that are in the metropolitan area, but they are from the territory, they are in other areas as can be Tarragona, as can be Girona or can be Lleida. And, obviously, they are all sectors that generate a lot of occupation and a lot of wealth creation. And therefore, here we have a key role to play in deciding what we want to do with these sectors and how we accompany them towards the transformation they need to address. And that worries me, because it's been a long time since this debate we have in Parliament and we haven't just had a full common route over where we're going. Obviously, then things like the pandemic come along and we have to adapt, but there are background streams, as I said before, and trends that we have been looking at for some time now that we don't see that we're dealing with them on purpose. And I say this because obviously we have very qualified workers in many sectors of these, but obviously if we let this drift, some will stay on the road, some will not be able to reintegrate or convert to our sectors. And here we have to accompany them, from the public side, we have to travel between one sector and the other. We have clearly examined which sectors are also creating occupation and which training is required because this occupation is successful. And obviously, here we can do something from the public and it's also the effort I demand. And that's why I was talking to him before the job pact, which I know is obviously not his only thing, but that obviously there's also a very prominent paper from business, knowledge and industry, too, isn't there? Because if we have to decide all the folds in this country as well, where to bet, right? And obviously, also with public-private collaboration to find out where we're going, we need to get a full route on how we're going to do this, how we're going to evolve over here. We have had experiences– of this evolution that should be – failed. And, obviously, the automotive FP centre is a clear example of this success, let's just say, that we have tried to transform automotive workers or try to adapt them to the new sector that is emerging in Catalonia. You were setting an example with the company Silence, obviously, weren't you? But I also want to say, listen, let's not always be the finance excuse, which is obviously one of the factors that there is, but Balears and València knows perfectly well that they are not in better condition, some say they are in worse finance conditions, and they are making a much stronger bet for the industry that we are making. And it's also worth it, and you recognized it, the government of the state's clear bet on the industrial issue, and in the person of Raúl Blanco, the Secretary General of Industry, who is obviously a staunch advocate of this sector, isn't he? And you also know the state intervention in Catalan companies with problems; direct state intervention to try to help them, right? Which way, I think we have a good shot at trying to push this. I ask you – and I know that you, as I said, are a new counselor, let's just say, in this sense, right? – it's that we can't lose much longer. I know you're three months old now, and from here, there are some choices. But we've spent a lot of time here on this subject. And we have had a lot of debate in Parliament. And above is also a point of shared frustration, to say: "Listen, we define what we want to be. It's not that hard for sure, we've all got a lot clearer in the head, and when there's debate outside the Faristol, let's just say, we could quickly have some clear lines from where we're going, right? And that worries us, because, obviously, this evolution has to be accompanied, it takes time, it requires planning, and that's not a day ago for another. And a process that would surely live in two years, we're living in two, because the pandemic has accelerated that trend we had on the ground, right? That worries us, because we see that while we're not doing this proactive act, we're getting people on the road, and we're seeing it week after week when we're on business. And that's what we see visibly, organized workers and protest; those we're not seeing daily are certainly much more. And that worries us, because, obviously, we see the taxes we have on ERTOS. And this, if there is no proactive follow-up, as I said, from the Administration, will end up with people who are out of the system, outside this new stage that is approaching industry and the economy. And that, obviously, creates social, economic and also political problems for sure. For which reason, this concern we have, which is why this insistence vehemently, let's say it, because you give me an answer and tell me who your advice is to address this problem, which I think is of the essence, which is of country and which can be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.230.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, the councilman has a new turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.231.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see, totally agree that the chemical, agri-food and automotive sector are very important, huh? Here I have good news: from these three sectors, two are good. That is to say, the chemical sector and the agri-food sector, together with the pharmacist, are the ones that record the best figures. In fact, I was a few weeks ago at the port of Tarragona and saw a working port almost 100_per_cent capacity. And, in fact, dice for the president of the port barely a week ago say that October 2020_has been better than October 2019. And I remember that the year 2019 Tarragona makes an absolute historical record in all the indicators. And that's very good news. Exports are growing to two digits in the agri-food sector and in the chemical sector in the port of Tarragona. Therefore, this is very good news that we need to put into value. The car's different, it's falling between 30 and 40 percent, and, of course, that answers to a non-destructive issue, because this crisis hasn't destroyed returns, but there's an increase in the estalvi all over the world, huh? And, in fact, the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona published a few days ago that in Catalonia the tax of estalvi has increased from 7 to 18_percent of the gross family income available. Therefore, there is an uncertainty caused by the health, economic and social pandemic, and therefore a lot of people who had to change the car say: "We'll see the year you see, we'll wait a year longer. And this is an element that all economists say that when the pandemic uncertainty disappears, for the vaccine or for quick, reliable and cheap tests, that allow normalizing planes, fires and congresses, universities, hotels, theaters, restaurants, etc., all this money will come out in bulk in the form of consumption. That's why we're making this speech: we have to hold on for a few more months, freeze taxes, help businesses, because it's very important that the peppers and the companies save themselves and arrive in the spring, to see if we have any good news in terms of health care. But, well, you told me about Nissan. Miri, I have now entered Google for a moment and I have posed: « Pedro Sánchez Nissan Davos. And exactly on the 23rd generation of 2020, or 2019, I'd have to review it, but I'd say there's a phrase that Pedro Sánchez says: "Nissan's job is guaranteed. So that didn't happen, huh? And, therefore, all the companies in the Lower Penedes of fifty, one hundred, one hundred and fifty members who served Nissan have been touched. Why? Because the marriage failed. It is true that Nissan was the story of a company that I had said a long time ago that I would leave and that... but, well, in the end they went to Britain. Why? Because the British government put a check on the table. And in the end..., they say: "Ui, these with Brexit ; Great Britain outside the European Union will not eat a roast, will not..., will not catch, in the end, the Spanish Government did not put money to Nissan, the British Government yes, and the plant has gone to Great Britain. So... it's like, who had the highest intervention capacity, which was the Spanish government, so, not here... at the time it wasn't, was it? And in this sense, it's a shame it wasn't. Well, there's another indicator that I want to give them as well that surprised me, because they are also ministry data: foreign investment in the world has fallen by 50_per_cent; foreign investment in the Spanish State has fallen by 37,6_per_cent; foreign investment in this year 2020 has always fallen by only 8_per_cent. And this fact, therefore, that today they have asked me, because I had it reconfirmed, indicates that there are sectors of the economy that have been very touched, but, in change, that there are sectors that in this year 2020, as well as the pandemic, as well as the health crisis, the subsequent economic and social crisis, have been working better than expected. For example, the furniture of the Senia; this year, historical memory. The people locked at home said: "We change the sofa, the table, the boxes... The company Taurus, of Oliana, is expanding the factory. Why? Because people stuck at home, so: "We're changing the Thermomix, we're changing... So it's a very surprising crisis; it's a crisis that, really, from the academic point of view, it costs a lot to try to compare with other crises because actually the situation, so it's very surprising. Tourism. Car tourism has defended itself quite well this summer: Alt Pirineu, Costa Brava, Ebre Delta, inland tourism. The plane tourism, linked to international tourism, has fallen an 80 or 90_per_cent in the center of Barcelona, in some localities of the Costa Daurada and the Costa Brava. Therefore, we should do microsurgery, help very specific in these very touched sectors, all waiting for a reopening that normalizes, that allows us to normalize traffic, economic activity and overcome the situation in which we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-12-02-6701.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. We've finished the agenda points scheduled for today. Therefore, let us proceed to the vote – to the votes, more well said. [[Long break.]] Well, deputies, deputies, we'll start voting. Before starting them, however, I am sure that today's ninety-four Members and Members of Parliament have delegated their vote, a dozen Members and Members have joined the telematic vote and twenty-two will vote face-to-face. [[Decree-Law 38/2020 of 3 November, by which measures are taken in the cultural sphere to deal with the effects of the crisis generated by the Covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[203-00064/12]] Let us now proceed to vote, first of all, on item 3 of the agenda, which corresponds to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 38/2020 of 3 November, for which measures are taken in the cultural sphere to deal with the effects of the crisis generated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Let's proceed to the vote on the validation of this decree. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 66 votes in favour – corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – against 69 abstentions. I'm asking the chamber if any groups... [[Pause.]] So let's vote if it's dealt with as the bill of the law that decrees the law. The vote begins. This decree will be dealt with as the bill, since there have been 69 votes in favour, 66 against – correspondents to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics –, no abstention. [[Decree Illi 44/2020 of 17 November, for which is created the Cents of responsible cultural spaces (continuation)]] [[203-00068/12]] Let us now vote for the validation of Decree Illi 44/2020 of 17 November, for which the Cent of responsible cultural spaces is created. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. It has been approved by 70 votes in favour – correspondents to 51 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – against 65 abstentions. There are some groups who want it to be votes – yes? – processing as the law project? [[Pause.]] So let's vote if it's dealt with as the bill of the law that decrees the law. The vote begins. This decree will be dealt with as the bill, since there have been 69 votes in favour, 66 against – correspondents to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – and no against. [[Decree-Law 41/2020 of 10 November on extraordinary social measures in educational centres and in the field of education in the reading and extra-curricular activities to address the consequences of Covid-19 (continuation)]] [[203-00065/12]] Let us now proceed to vote on the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to the vote on the validation of Decree No. 41/2020 of 10 November of extraordinary social measures in educational centres and in the field of education in reading and extra-curricular activities to deal with the consequences of Covid-19. The vote begins. This decree has been validated by 66 votes in favour – corresponding to 47 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – against 69 abstentions. Do any groups want it to be votes? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 44 votes in favour, 83 against – correspondents to 64 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – and 8 abstentions. [[Decree Law 40/2020 of 10 November, authorizing the creation of 245 seats of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra (continuation)]] [[203-00066/12]] And we are voting now on the sixth point of the order of the day, which corresponds to Decree Law 40/2020 of November 10, which authorizes the creation of 245 seats of the Squadron Cos de Mossos. The vote begins. It has been approved by 131 votes in favour – correspondents to 112 delegates and face-to-face, 19 telematics – 4 against, no abstention. Some group wants it to be votes – yes? – processing as a bill of law of this law decree? [[Pause.]] So let's vote. The vote begins. This decree will not be dealt with as draft law, since there have been 44 votes in favour, 83 against and 8 abstentions. There are no more points to vote, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
