ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.1.0	Well, good morning, deputies, deputies. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00017/12]] We then resumed the general political orientation debate, and we did so with the presentation of the motions for resolutions subsequent to the debate on the general political orientation of the Government. In order to defend the motions for resolutions submitted, we will follow the order of entry into the Register of these proposals. The turn of intervention is for a maximum of two minutes per parliamentary group and consequently, five for the subgroup. It has the word, in the first place, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs. Alicia Romero. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.2.0	Good morning, President. Councillors, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies... Dimecres, the president of our group, Miquel Iceta, reminded him of his words of the genera d'encany, where you said that the government was divided and exhausted and that, once approved the assumptions, would call elections. Before these words, it seems strange, frankly, that today we are holding the debate, a general policy debate. It's true that we're on the verge of a pandemic, you said that. But it is also true that, to face a crisis like today, that it is health care, that it is economic and that it is social, that it is a strong government. A strong government, able to lead, able to dialogue, able to agree on measures that solve problems and challenges to us at short notice. On the other hand, we are only strengthened by the severance of your government, President. Which was excavated when you remodeled in a sectarian way, antiposing party interests over country ones – with Esquerra's endorsement, by the way. Fixi's, president, with his government partner, is to say, with the Republican Left, they do not match even as often as they can call elections. Mr. Sabrià said that he wanted to call elections before his possible disqualification and in change, yesterday, out of the Supreme said that it would be irresponsible to take the country to an electoral race in which you certainly already put us in the generation. But in any case, it must be all irresponsible less of you, because we have all asked you here in the last few days to be elected in an imminent way. We, President, have made it clear that we should go to elections as soon as possible. Today, better than tomorrow. I thought about it. To shoot full. Catalunya needs a new government. The citizens do not deserve a government that agonizes and does not have, in its priorities, neither the country nor its people. That is why, in our twenty motions for resolutions, we ask, among other things, for elections. And we hope to have the support of all the groups, since all the groups here, except Junts for Catalonia, have asked for them. And we ask for elections for different motives. One, he despises the institutions. The first, that of the Presidency of the Generality, president. You disobeyed conscience, because you knew that if you didn't act correctly you were jumping the law, you knew we could be in this situation today. And president, no one is over the law– no one. The law is a guarantee of democracy. In a right state, that's basic. But you continue to discredit the institution of the Presidency. And I wanted to say, don't hold anyone more responsible than you for the consequences of your actions. He is the first to make sense of the children when they are little, who are responsible for their actions; they alone are. Miri, I also despise this institution. They did it when they called for the cessation of other charges from this institution. And they do it constantly, when they don't approve motions. In the case of the Socialists, fifty have approved themselves in this legislature; head, head, head of these, complete. Miri, who retails billions of sovereigns in Parliament every day are you and your government, undermining the resolutions, motions and laws that are approved here. You. It's you. They are the ones who every day, every day, millimetres of sovereignty are relating in this Parliament. The lack of dialogue and agreement is another motivator for which we call for elections. In an hour as hard as we live, how can you not dialogue with parliamentary groups? It's not just for the sad decrees, if we want to say so, in a colloquial way. It's just they didn't call us that. And they agreed to the responsibility of the opposition, not the government. And, listen to me, it seems very good to me, tomorrow all the dialog that comes to Madrid, but don't come here to give us lessons. Actually, yesterday, Mrs. Borràs met with Vice President Calvo to discuss the 2021 assumptions. Here we still hope that Vice-President Aragonès, in his compromise, will trick parliamentary groups into talking about the presuppositional change of 2020. Menys lessons, take a little note. But I will tell you more: in this general political debate, the government has only made a deal; one, and with the UPC. I'm on habitation. I can't say anything more. I don't know if you're just doing or you're just doing a deal because you don't want to talk, or because you make it clear that the legislature is over. Or two things, which is what we believe. Bad government. Miri, the independent governments eight years ago that have been unable to reverse the details of 2011 and 2012. And I'll put down some data, because they've been publishing, in the last few days, many of them. In Salut, in two years, from 2009 to 2019, you have reported 3.267_million euros. The autonomous community that most has spread to all of Spain, almost a 30_per_cent. And the Valencian country, with the same financing problems that we have, has increased it by 4.1_per_cent. If we're talking about Education, it's just as tremendous: 780_million euros, they've spread over these years. And we are the second autonomous community with less resources for education. But the saddest thing is not just that, it's that in six years of economic growth, you haven't taken advantage of it to reverse those retails. They didn't take advantage of assumptions, which is one of the things a government has to do. And if we're talking about economic recovery, the figures don't improve either. Turns out in industry, we've retaliated from 165 to 51 million. At a time when the industry is faced with an important injection of innovation, knowledge, to be more competitive; we are seeing the closure of businesses, later on. In universities, we dedicated the year 2010 1,000_million euros, now we do not arrive to 900. In search, the same assumption that you give years, when it is precisely what we need to allow, therefore, to find the vaccine against the Covid or to improve the competitiveness of our companies. In other words, in order to recover and take advantage of opportunities, we need a new government. A government that, as we ask of our proposals for resolution, prioritizes equal opportunities, reinforcing education; care for vulnerable people, the great people, the children, single-parent families reinforcing health, social services, housing policies; clearly set up for a knowledge economy, for technology, for innovation, for industry, for energy transition, to which you do not dedicate anything. But all this, they don't do it now, they won't do it – they won't do it. And do you know why we say it so bluntly, so clearly, president? So because we didn't trust them, that's true; but they've lost all credibility. All of it. For this reason, today we will vote against all the proposals for a resolution of the Government; of all of them. We do not believe them, they have too much time voting in favour of proposals for measures that they do not apply, and we have said enough. Our project for Catalonia is on our twenty resolution proposals and we do not share your project, your exhausted project. That is why we are making a statement to the whole of your motions for resolutions. And I want to give you some examples that help me, that help us or that help the city to hear this position of ours. In Salut, for example, says Antoni Sisó, of the Catalan Society of Family Medicine, that primary care is the political discourse of the promises that never arrive. And they're doing it again today with a motion for a resolution. But the reality is that they do not comply with two of the basic principles that we have repeatedly approved here. Faculty at forty-eight hours and 25_per_cent real of the Generality's health premise for primary school. We don't approve, we don't... we approve and we don't apply it. In Education, June 18, 2020, Ple del Parlament, motion presented and approved for the PSC. « Point h. Start, during the course 2020-2021, the recovery of the six-hour public school school to compensate for inequalities. Do you know what happened when the 2020-2021 course started? They've sent an instruction to the schools that have the six-hour time to go and eliminate it. The opposite of what we approved here a few months ago. What credibility! If it's embarrassing. What are we going to do here, "really, truly? Universitats, June 27, 2019, Ple del Parlament, PSC approved motion. "Point a. Adopt a plan to improve the funding of universities, recovering by 2020 900_million net resources and 1,300_million net resources by 2022. This has been approved, and it has not been fully implemented in the 2020 budget, and they are making a motion for a resolution that has come back, that raises fewer resources. But if we approved it, and then, at the end of a few months, we repeated it. Let's repeat the approval. Proudly—proudly—; they deceive us. A motion for a resolution that says less of what has been approved, already, in this Parliament, twice in 2019. You're exhausting – you're exhausting – indeed. Childhood, president: how can we have a child in a poor situation in Catalonia, and the government has been unable to make the law of the law of rights and opportunities of the child and the adolescent. A 2010 law, how could it be? We've approved it here a lot. It's not like that. Not a regulation, which are not resources. Really, it's exhausting – it's exhausting. Miri, it's over. President, I repeat, they have no credibility, they have lost everything. Do not complete what you are voting for, or just what is approved of your Government's proposal. Miri, we will not be part of this dying spectacle or its lies. Today, you should not approve any motion for a resolution, according to what the parliamentary groups here have said: that it is an exhausted government and that elections are scheduled. Companies of the commons, I want to say to them: they have already fooled them once, with the approval of the assumptions of 2020, do not fall back into their lies. Partly we're also here because they gave them to them, with that approval of the assumptions. Says the esteemed«So that repeating an error is not an error, it is voluntary. From the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, we firmly believe that elections are scheduled. We don't deserve this government that's broken, that's dying, that's been in an election race for months, that's not solving Catalonia's problems, that doesn't dialogue or agree. And the hardest, for us, president, who continues to face no benefits for Catalonia and continues to represent only half of Catalans and Catalans. We need a government that you think of everyone and that you represent everyone. For one thing, you don't count on us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.4.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, the second round of this general policy debate today, which is a debate that we hold every year, where we are supposed to assess the management of the Government and try to find solutions to the problems of Catalan society among all groups. Or at least that, on paper, because then reality is quite different. I, in fact, these days as I was preparing this speech and we were also looking at the motions for resolutions to be tabled, I was reviewing the notes I had from last year's debate, and, unfortunately, those notes are still in force, Mr Torra. We have the same problems as a year ago, now, that is, above all, exacerbated by the crisis of the Covid-19, because we are suffering a pandemic of devastating health and economic consequences. And obviously, the Government of the Generalitat is not responsible for this crisis, but it does have responsibilities over it. And I wonder why Catalonia is worse than the rest of the autonomous communities. And it has been commented here, already in the previous intervention: we are the worst in data on child poverty; we are the ones who have cut the most in social services, health and education at a time, also, like this; we also have the worst unemployment data here in Catalonia, compared to the rest of Spain; we are also the worst on dependency lists. And it could go on like this, because the truth is that the data is discouraging. And I ask you again why, because it's not just because we're living this pandemic, no. It is because of the lack of management of his Government and the previous ones, because when you get to a pandemic like this it is very difficult to get out well standing if the starting situation is already bad. And it's hard to reach the podium when you get the last one in the race. And that's exactly where this government has got us, in the last position. And you do nothing to try to move forward, you continue to do so, you have even taken advantage of this situation to keep dividing us, to keep confronting us. I, on Wednesday, Mr. Torra, heard you here, in this very rostrum, say that the fault is the black hole in Madrid. Well, look, no. The only black hole is yours, which at the door of a second wave of Covid, with families who have not yet recovered from the first, who need more help and more resources than ever, have to see how the Government of the Generalitat complains and tells them that it has no money, but then, on the other hand, you are dedicated to opening embassies, like these last three, in Japan, Senegal and Australia, huh? And they cut into health, education, and social services. It's rather unfortunate and rather embarrassing, Mr. Torra. By the way, in one of the proposals that we are presenting here, we ask you to monitor these embassies that you are opening up around the world, and I believe that as they depend on the Transparency Counsellor, then you will have no inconvenience, will you not? , in which the work they are supposed to do from these embassies can be monitored. Look, I think the government's priorities are very clear and I can assure you that they do not match most Catalans. Most Catalans are waiting to be able to get their jobs back, whether they are going to be able to open their business or not, or keep it, those who have opened it. Whether they will finally be able to collect the minimum living income, which seemed to be the panacea, and which only 1_per_cent of the Spanish families have collected, or whether their children will be able to go to school tomorrow in safety. Those are people's concerns. It tells me that yes with the head, but it is that you, what you claim is that the Catalans are waiting here for your judicial tour and that we are also suffering those threats that you have reiterated in recent days, threats of paralysis of this Parliament and of the Government of the Generalitat. Look, this Parliament has to legislate now more than ever; we have to put forward new budgets that will be able to respond to the problems we have on the table, to this emergency situation that we are experiencing. So I say to you: if you really are as worried as you wanted to see here on Wednesday, prove it, be responsible and put an end to it, already, to your stage at the head of the Government of the Generalitat, at once. And at least, Mr. Torra, you'll have that in your possession box, because I'm sure the one you owe has it well filled. Look, I want to go into the motions for resolutions, because we have already told them many times that we are not only going to stand by and point out what they are doing wrong, but we also want to make a constructive and proactive opposition. And we have demonstrated this with these twenty motions for resolutions. So I'm going to try to talk about the most relevant ones or what gives me time. For example, in health, one of the most important issues. We propose a shock plan so that specialized care, primary care and mental health services can absorb in the coming months as all pathologies, consultations, diagnostic tests or surgical interventions that have obviously been paralyzed by the crisis of the Covid-19. We had some waiting lists, before the Covid, that were already dramatic. Imagine now, after months of collapse, in which all health professionals have dedicated themselves, in body and soul, to saving lives of the Covid-19. And that is why we also call, through these motions for resolutions, for this effort to be recognised by the health personnel, not only with applause and with words of thanks, but also with an economic supplement that is agreed with all health workers. Because we need more means, we need more resources, and I also say, of course, if at some point we need to ask third parties for help, that they do so. I, in fact, have been ashamed to read some motion for a resolution. One, for example, proposed by the CUP, which asks to reject the help of military trackers in a diaphanous way. I want to ask you from here if your hatred of the army goes beyond the health of Catalans. I think it's a real irresponsibility. I hope that you will remain alone in this proposal and that the Government will not again make the same mistakes it made in March and April. With regard to proposals for education, you, Mr Torra, on Wednesday, from here, expressed your concern about returning to school and even begged Mrs Albiach to try to influence the government to adopt measures to help parents. That it is very good that you ask for sensible things from the Government of Spain. For once he asks for something sensible... but it's that we here also have competences in education. In fact, we have them transferred and there are measures that can be taken from Catalonia, Mr Torra, such as those proposed by our group. And look, the first of them is that it doesn't cost a single euro. It's about listening. We have met with the educational community and are obviously concerned and, above all, feel abandoned and explain to us that the counselor does not listen to them. So the first step of all is to sit down with the educational agents and, of course, to agree on these measures. For us, the fundamental consensus of fear and the uncertainty of thousands of parents in Catalonia, I think they should rotate on two axes. The first, that of the Council Plan, which you were also talking about this problem of conciliation. We have already implemented this Plan Council in Madrid and what it is about is that those children who are enrolled in children's schools, in this case in Catalonia, who are forced to keep the quarantine will be able to have a caregiver in their home whenever the parents need it. I think it is obvious that we have to protect families from this second wave of coronavirus and that we cannot fool ourselves and think that there will be no contagion in Catalan classrooms. Obviously, yes; so let's look for solutions. And I tell you that in addition to asking the Government of Spain, you also use the powers, which you also have. Also security measures, of course. I believe that the greatest guarantee for parents to remain calm is that all the necessary security measures will be available in Catalan educational institutions. Therefore, we ask to ensure the supply of masks, facial screens when necessary; that safety distances can be maintained; to increase the staff of the teacher, because we will also have to control the ratios in the classrooms; and, of course, also the performance of rapid tests or PCRs to the entire teacher and also to the non-teaching staff, I insist, to ensure safety. As far as the social plan is concerned, among several proposals we have tabled, one of them is very simple: it is that the laws that we have adopted from this Parliament are already being deployed. I heard you the other day, here, yesterday, with these statements you made, you blamed the state for the paralysis of the Catalan administration if you were really disabled. No, no, the paralysis of the Administration is being carried out by you, because you pass laws that after you don't even deploy. I mean, it's not just about the desire they have to legislate, which is the second most unproductive government in the last decade, it's that then, when we finally get a law out of the way, it turns out they don't deploy it. We have paralysed the law to guarantee LGBTI rights, rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, the accessibility of Catalonia, the language of Catalan signs, the right of women to eradicate macho violence, is also not fully deployed. Not to mention the portfolio of social services, which I believe I entered this Parliament five years ago, and since then I have been calling on you to update the portfolio of social services, which for ten years have not touched it and continue without touching it. Well, that's how it goes. They have many tools, but it turns out that they do not use them, neither to fight poverty, nor to eradicate, for example, the problems we have of occupation, in which we have insisted also these last days very much. We're back... We are again the first in the ranking of occupations with respect to the rest of the autonomous communities. And the other day, when we were talking about this subject, the rest of the groups were talking to us about the social aspect that this has to have as well. And we agree, of course, that we need to differentiate situations from families that are at risk of exclusion and for which his Government does not offer solutions, apparently, because we already know how they have the social housing park, and then the illegal occupation mafias, which are creating a lot of problems of coexistence in Catalonia, which we previously did not have and which we also put forward here in this general policy debate. I don't want to leave myself, either, to the self-employed. We have also called for the reduction of the average payment period for the Generalitat to 15 days and, above all, for the updating of the security plans of the Procicat [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , because there are sectors, such as trade fairs, that have not yet been able to start up. And I finish very quickly, President. I think it's very clear what we have to do. We can continue with a Catalonia that looks permanently to the past, to the conflict, that continues to divide us, that keeps us in line with the rest of Spain, or a Catalonia with future, that can again be the leader of everything that was.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.5.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.6.0	I'm done in a second. I will definitely stay with this last one and in my group we will work to make it so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.7.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.8.0	Thank you, President. President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors. "This is an exhausted legislature, words of the president, of the 29th generation passed. Today we could spend some time going over, taking a break from the legislature, but I honestly think it would be a waste of time. Go ahead, like the legislature. And, therefore, it is worth looking forward, immediate future miremel, obviously, is absolutely marked by the pandemic and the health, economic and social crisis it has caused and what is causing and will continue to cause this pandemic. And that is why I believe that, like all parliamentary groups, we have put forward a whole series of proposals, up to fourteen. Of which, twelve – twelve – make reference to policies, policies certainly not long-range, because the legislature is exhausted and, therefore, can not give the government too much instruction long-range, but short-term, to deal with the situation, both from the health point of view and from the social point of view and from the economic point of view that we have at the front. More social policy, more economic drive, less process; with his words, less confrontation. The president has repeatedly said before yesterday: "We dedicate twenty-four hours a day to the effects of the pandemic. But when we look at the proposals of the parliamentary groups, as well as those of the groups that support the Government, we get the impression that there are still many things to do, and those that can do to them, those that can do to them, that was the Government, they still seem to be on their way. In view, I insist, of the proposals put forward. So it doesn't make us feel that you and the government have been very effective. Certainly, devoting twenty-four hours a day to the effects of the pandemic is certainly contradictory to the strategy of confrontation that you claim you want and are applying from the same government. Today we find ourselves a few days probably – probably – that his disqualification is ratified, president. And if that's the case, the responsibility will be yours, only yours. Two motius: first, important, lacks institutional sense. An example only – an example only – if you are condemned, it will not be for freedom of expression, it will not be for use of freedom of expression, because institutions, like institutions, that are from all citizens, do not have freedom of expression, are owed to all Catalans, and you have used the institution to defend some Catalans in front of others. Go ahead, the confrontation. But I also believe that there is a profound lack of awareness of what democracy is. Democracy is effective with democratic laws approved by democratic parliaments and which you deliberately disobeyed. Yesterday's statement asked: "Who is worried about things that interest people? He continued: "It is not responsible to paralyze an administration with some elections. As we move on, we believe that the legislature has been lost, more paralysis that has occurred in this legislature has not been known to us, but you have made this question in the sense of saying: "Listen to me, if we call elections now, it will be lost time. So if you feel responsibility, you can prevent the paralysis that you do not want from being four or more months. You can make it only fifty-four days. We make a petition, or that it is only once in the entire legislature, take one – one – decision uncertain: call for elections. I'll call for an election. I'm done. We felt Mr. Batet, before yesterday, affirm that they only have two options: confrontation or yield. Intelligent confrontation, in other words, when the least intelligent that is precisely the confrontation. What is truly intelligent, President, is concord. The concord. This is not among their options. And precisely for that, President, for concord, President Torra, good wind and new boat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.9.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya en Comú Puem, Ms Susanna Segovia has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy, deputies, councillors, councillor. Today we wanted to start in another way, speaking strictly of the themes of the general policy debate, but yesterday we once again had an image of the striking and bold moves against people who were trying to put up with a denunciation; once more, images like these. According to the media and the groups defending the right to housing this week there have been more than one hundred denunciations in Barcelona; only in Barcelona. And without counting those that could be set up, updated or solved with the media services of the Barcelona Assembly. And yesterday the People's Party and Mr. Married went to Badalona to denounce and criminalize the occupation in a building where there was no occupation. The case of yesterday in concrete was that of a family that could not pay the logger because it had stopped having tickets, with two minors, and it was not possible to apply the Decree 17/2019 because the owner, therefore, was not a great lord and could not be forced to offer social logger. He wasn't a great contre, no, he was just Oleguer Pujol, the son of Jordi Pujol, who surely, little owners, so you don't have to be, do you? , above all taking into account the fact that it is investigated in an unlawful manner. The case is that we saw a family back on the street, the movements stunning and no change in the policies of the Interior Council. We have a new counselor, we have an apparently friendly new face, but the policies are the same. And, in fact, he also said that he wanted to speed up denunciations in cases of large owners. It seems to us that the new advisor is nothing more than a friendly-looking Buch, but with the same old policies. And now, let us focus on the issue that we are concerned about this general policy debate, which is certainly not a surprise, President, that we need to call elections now, urgently. We're watching a strange, rare general policy debate. It is not normal, nor should it be normal, nor can it ever be normal, that, in the context of a general policy debate, the President of the Government of Catalonia should go to the Supreme Court. It's not, it shouldn't be. We don't agree, we don't like each other, and we think the feeling is disproportionate. I've told him many times. We believe that you must stop being President of the Generality of Catalonia – we believe it and we say it and repeat it – but that it must be a few choices that the passage from this place, not the fact that you left for a few more hours a banner pinned to the balcony of the Generality of Catalonia. We've already told the gener that it's first assumptions and after elections. And the PSC, yeah. Presumed so. Thanks to these assumptions, we could give minimal response to the pandemic we experienced and to the social and economic crisis, because I don't know what would have happened with the assumptions of 2017. Thanks to this, students who start the university course pay a 30_per_cent less than university fees. We have done a responsibility exercise that now, the Government of the State is asking the other forces of the investiture that they also do to approve the General Presuppositions of the State. Here, the PSC, in the sole responsibility it has placed is to agree with Junts for Catalonia to fall to the Barcelona Diputation and the resources of the Barcelona Diputation. This is the exercise of responsibility. The same President Torra said assumptions and elections, but now he's not, now he's saying he's not. But now they're almost playing the forces of this parliamentary bow, almost all the less together for Catalonia, we're asking him to be elected. Citizens don't make it very clear, it doesn't seem like they're just over the election issue, then we'll see it in the votes, but I also want to say that it's clear, or it's normal that I'd rather have thirty-seven deputies a few months more than I'd rather not have said in two. I want to say that they also come from the place they have, the prospects they have in Catalan politics. But the president doesn't, the president directly says he doesn't think they're needed and that it would be irresponsible, some elections. President, irresponsibility is not to summon them, because the issue is between 54 days from now or 124 days from the arrival of probable ratification of the sentence by the Supreme. Between 54 days– two_months– or 124– four_months– between which there is disqualification, the gods that President Torrent needs to be able to say that, since there is no candidate, the clock is activated, two_months after the clock is activated, the call for automatic elections, the 54 days, and then yes, the elections, and then yes, the opportunity to make a new government. Between two_months of electoral campaign and more than four_months of paralysis and electoral campaign as well. So, yes, he's at his hands, that's his responsibility. He also said the other day that he doesn't think that health professionals and teachers are concerned about elections now. No, they are concerned about resources, they are concerned about policies, they are concerned about decisions that are not taken, they are concerned because one day they are told, the other day b, the other day c; because they do not get the reinforcements to the primary to what they had bought, because they do not get the reinforcements of the faculty to what they had bought, because they need a strong government to respond and give answers. And that's choices. So, yes, call elections. And also these people who are facing the pandemic at the front line need a government that responds and this government, the government of Juntes per Cat and d'Esquerra Republicana to the government of Torra and Aragonès is not that government. They have not done anything in three years, as we have said, they do not complete what the Parliament says, but it is that you have not practically been able to govern or legislate if we remain the entire battery of decrees with which we have faced the pandemic, because, of the figures shown the other day, we remain the decrees of the last four months and there is nothing practically anything left. And you know that, more so. But it's then up the general policy debate and we find ourselves with Junts' motions for resolution for Catalonia and the Republican Left that, man, as a matter of fact, graces it is, huh? Because if you did, in these three years, the least part of what they say should be done, we wouldn't be where we are. We wouldn't be in the situation we're in. Maybe we wouldn't even be asking for elections, mirin. Or they might have had more support in some of the things they've raised, and they wouldn't have to withdraw the Aragonese Law, for example; or the failed decrees until they got them working well with the municipal vote and with the social organizations, the Habitatage ones. Maybe we won't be where we are. It is that you are the ones of the "yes, but no. And as long as they are the "yes, but no. Why? Because you do know what to do, but you don't. That's it. You know, they say, they put it in PRs, but they don't. They know how to ask the State what to do in the State, but they don't do it with the skills that surround them. And they don't, and they don't know how to do it. They do defend human rights, freedom, condemn repression, but then they send protesters to atone, they are people to the causes against activists and ask for prison sentences. You are, yes, they like grandioseness and symbolism, but after concrete policies and concrete facts, no. You are the ones who also say that there is a political conflict, that it is a political solution, but when it comes to mechanisms to unlock and advance this political solution, they prevent it. Their proposals to deal with repression, to deal with it..., how to move forward in the dialog and in the search for solutions are girls and you think because only you give them support, not to add. They put a lot of things in there because there's the slightest excuse because they can't add up to anyone. And so it is as they find: suns, without adding up, without seeking the consensus they need. In fact, we will see what is the position and what is the result of the motion for a resolution on the reform of the crime of sedition. We'll see, what's the result, who votes what. And if it can be approved or not approved a proposal, it may not be as grand and symbolic as you carry, but it can be effective, it can be viable and it can help stop the criminalization of many activists. And yes, I also got before the freedom of political prisoners, too. We will see what is the result of a resolution proposal, which is not grandiose, perhaps, but which can be effective and which can be real before the end of the year. We – we have already told you – will, however, continue to work, we will continue to advance in the search for consensus, in the political solution and in the construction, yes, of a confederal and plurinational republic that is our model of State. Even though the weights are very high, and you prefer to pursue opposition to the government without implying that it is time to add, to force, to stop the majority of the investiture, that some who may not have been able to add, and that we avoid that there are no assumptions that may be good for Catalonia and also for the rest of the state. That they don't make the same mistake as last year. We are presenting proposals for a resolution that are girls from the humiliation of an opposition group, an opposition group that managed to get this government to do the most progressive tax reform of the last two years and that hopes to be able to do so also at the state level. But to make one of the proposals, precisely, is to end the tax dumping and the privileges that Madrid has and the lack of resources for Madrid and other autonomous communities in the State to obtain public resources to deal with the social, economic and environmental crisis that we are living in. These are proposals that we hope will have your support. There is not much concrete that we want to ask, President Torra, and it is that, before we pray, because, late or late, it is because it is already a disqualification, it is because there are some elections, it is because we are asking you to call the elections, if you please, help us to stop the project of the Hard Rock Café, because you know that it has fallen, you know that it tempts against the territory, you know that it promotes ludopathy and goes against public salvation. We ask him that, as he did with the law of loguers, despite the interests of his party and other forces, he stands by the people's gang and helps us to put an end to this project. We have said this: this government's management has been nonexistent, it's a zombie government, it's a dying government, it's a government that doesn't have a joint project. At the 2014 Diada, President Carme Forcadell, at the same time as ANC, told President Mas : « President, put the ballot box. Yesterday, President Forcadell, President Torra, also said to her: "President, please put the ballot boxes. He's still in time, he can still do it. Catalunya needs it and deserves it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.11.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Gemma Geis has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.12.0	Well, good morning, President Torra, deputies, deputies. Today we are holding the third general policy debate of this legislature, and our intervention will be to interpret the moment we are living with responsibility. This legislature is marked by democratic normality, by a politicized justice, by a 155 approved with the complicity of Rajoy and Sánchez, and we see as this government, the most progressive government of history is unable to end with the slightest gesture to end this repression; no valid gesture. Member of the House of Commons, I am not surprised that PSC, PP, Ciutadans did not defend the separation of powers, but that you today, here, disqualified the President of the Generalitat seems, if not, quite difficult. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He did it, he did it. We also demand the banner of President Torra for whom he has been tried in the Supreme Court. It claims the freedom of political prisoners, and we understand that it is absolutely disproportionate. We understand, moreover, that this is absolutely irrational in a pandemic context. The Spanish State that judges a president of the Generality for having taken a banner is the same Spanish State that, with its spokesmen in the front, sends a letter to the Argentine justice because it does not judge Martin Villa, Francoist minister accused of more than thirteen crimes of homicide and crimes against humanity. As a member of the general policy debate, I think that we will have to say that we have to debate habitual repression, because the first general policy debate was marked by three failed investments; the second debate, for the October trial, and this third for the trial in the Supreme Court of the President of the Generality. Meanwhile, yes, the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group, or Amnesty International, continues to demand the freedom of prisoners. Everyone's asking for elections. I don't think I got this vote, though. But I ask you: do you ask for elections and will you respect the election results? This question was asked by President Puigdemont in the elections of 21-D, and the results of the elections in Catalonia were not respected, but neither were the results of the Congress, nor of the European Parliament, because Vice-President Junqueras should be an MEP. They say that the banner to the Presidency of the Generality is despicable. And I say to them: the presidency of the Generality is not contemptible for a banner, nor for a reference, nor for a consultation. What discredits institutions is not taking a step forward in defending rights and freedoms. What denigrates and denigrates a state are the use of the harpsichords, the telephone escorts, the Pegasus, the Kitchen operation, the Catalonia operation. And today we also sympathize with Dani Gallardo. From Juntes per Catalunya, with the CUP and Esquerra, we have signed a motion for a resolution, with which we manifest how the three last presidents of the Generality have been persecuted : President Mas, President Puigdemont and now President Torra, and we claim the import of the institution of the Generality of Catalonia, and that above all Catalans and Catalans are the ones who take and lay their presidents, and that only this Parliament has legitimacy to hold or withdraw the trust of its president. You know, president, you've got us right next to you. I also want to thank the words of Mr Carrizosa, who referred, therefore, to the way in which this procedure was initiated by Ciutadans, the challenge of this banner, and I believe that this will be a further argument for the European Court of Human Rights, to see this conxorxa, this political coordination between justice and political power. We also remember how the Belgian courts acknowledged that the Supreme Court had no jurisdiction to rule on the U d'Octubre and therefore had no jurisdiction to judge political prisoners. And now we see that the same Supreme Court, which did not have the competence to issue a 100-year sentence, is the same Supreme Court that claims to disable the President of the Generality. Finally, you, President Torra, told us in the general policy debate that we are focused on fighting the Covid. And so, we know, we're focused on the Covid fight, and that's why I think the Catalan society, in its majority, knows that the Government of Catalonia has worked for all Catalans and Catalans in this crisis. It recognizes its transparency, honesty, humanity and anticipation in managing this crisis. In fact, today's law as the effective reproductive rate in one week has dropped from 0.96 to 90, and the trend of the rebound records has dropped from 175.6 at the beginning of the week to 150.9. We are presenting proposals for this country, proposals for everyone. The first, and we expect the support of these parliamentary groups that so much they demand from us and tell us that we do not make proposals: to urge the Spanish Government to modify the deficit target of 2020, going from the current zero to a name less than '1_per_cent, which would amount to €2,000_million for Catalonia. Secondly, to ensure that the Government of Catalonia recovers European funds in relation to its percentage of GDP, in relation to the economic power that Catalonia has and deserves. Third, regulate the downfall of parents and mothers for those children and girls who are in quarantine at home. Besides, you're preaching that they're feminists, but you don't see that this is a step back from women? Don't you see? The most progressive government in Spain, I don't know how that didn't work out. I don't know. That's giving security to families; that's real options, and they're a lot of trouble. Fourthly, we ask to repeal the LRSAL, because it attempts against local autonomy. But well, it's also true that, having seen what happened with the Romans, we wait with LRSAL. Other proposals. In relation to education, first make a thank you to the management team and to the teachers. We know – because we know the effort they have made at this beginning of the course – and we believe that the centres in Catalonia have digital devices, that the Internet connectivity packages of all those students who are in the most unfavourable, most vulnerable situation... We are making a concrete proposal for the productive economy of this country and we are defending digital policies and research and knowledge policies, because they are social and economic policies of reactivation of the economy at this time: digitisation of the country, of the whole country, of its territory; it also improves sustainability, equal opportunities, social cohesion. Fem proposals respect the digital economy, 5G and optical fiber. And, in addition, in the search we were able to refine the Cerca centers, but also the public universities of this country. And with regard to the proposals for the resolution of the other parliamentary groups, it respects the CUP, so we vote in favour of a series of proposals. It would highlight the cures in case of quarantine for the Covid or defense of the places of work. From the PSC, frankly, I have been spared this position of voting against all his proposals, but the truth is that, when we got to the parliamentary group the motions for resolutions made by the PSC, we didn't know if you had become independent. Because the motions for resolutions that you have defended will only be possible if Catalonia is independent. I, to set an example now, I'd like that, wouldn't I? By 2021, all Catalonia had optical fiber. And, of course, he thought: "Well, surely, as they are monarchs, so they have made the letter to the kings. Therefore, you have done an exercise of irresponsibility in the motions for resolutions that you have defended. [[Widow's remorse.]] In relation to the commons, we defended them and voted on motions for resolutions. We have agreed, for example, in primary care, in health with a feminist perspective, in the struggle against the poor, in fiscal equity. Now, you've also surprised us that, of course, you... there are two motions for resolutions that we will vote in favour of, that a reference is made to the extension of the ERTOs..., and that of the gathering of refugees to Moria. And you, on the motion for a resolution, tell us that the Catalan Parliament is asking the Government of the Generality that the Government of the Generality is asking the Spanish Government for the extension of the ERTOs..., and of the refugees to Moria. But you don't rule in Madrid? Are we here to do two interviews before we arrive in Madrid? Don't they have an incident in Madrid? So why do they make us do this? It is that these motions for resolutions seem to show their current irrelevance to Madrid. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He didn't, and you know it. Therefore, we focus on managing the crisis. We are absolutely questioned about this. We know that there are a lot of families who have their life plans broken; peppers and small business people who are trying to survive and who know that they may not be able to raise the blind any more; people who are in a situation of vulnerability; the need for cohesion in this country. And listen, President Torra, he knows that the entire parliamentary group is on his side, that for us priority at this time is the fight against the pandemic, and from here we will not move and try, therefore, to continue working with the entire Government of the Generality, with the utmost joy, because this is possible, to make policies for all of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.13.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf, now, of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent has the word of the MP Nattalia Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.14.0	Good morning to all; good morning, President; good morning, Members. Today we finish the general policy debate, and, as has been seen in all the interventions of today and the last decades, we also plan a final of the legislature; a final of the legislature that many parliamentary groups agree that it is necessary. As well, and we have said, and it is public and notoriety, the CUP's proposal diverges greatly, for example, from the proposal to call elections of the PSC or the PP, and we have not just coincided with the reasons for the commons to call for immediate elections. The CUP we have proposed to the Government, we have proposed to Junts for Catalonia and to Esquerra Republicana to agree a exit from this legislature, a worthy end for this legislature and not to live again a health and a conflict between the members of government for the finalization of the legislature. And yet we have not rejected an answer. We've made him a proposal, President. We are here at your side, before a legal aberration and a political disproposal and a clear attempt against democratic principles and civil and political rights. We are here, at its side, but we are also clear that governments must be part of solving people's problems and not part of the problems. They say that you are exclusively focused on fighting the crisis of the Covid. So they're not getting out. The pandemic is going through our lives and not so much so that we have to maintain security gaps, we have to wear masks; it causes deaths and it has demonstrated the limits of a health system that has accumulated detail as a result of the neoliberal impositions of the European Union – and attention to those that will come from the Spanish State – and for the faithful application of the government successes of the Generality, especially those that are given the "governments of the best." The pandemic has also caused hardship, accommodation, autonomies that do not give them the burden, and, especially, a difficult situation among young people, who accumulate a youthful habit that wants 40_per_cent. Some young people who, moreover, find themselves in a difficult situation: the first cause of death among young people is suicide. That is why, among the different proposals that we have put forward by the UPC, we propose to fight suicide and prevent it. Also, in the set of resolutions that we have presented, we present questions of minimums, questions that should be approved. The rule of Law 11/2014 – the sanctioning regime, apologizing – for the fight against the LGTBifóbia. And yes, Mrs Romero was freaking out because the UPC we've come to deals with most of this Parliament that is in favour of the right to housing being a right to use. What's scandalous is that the Socialist Party doesn't agree. We have made such a revolutionary proposal that the law that we have approved by a large majority of this Parliament comes to all the islands, comes to all the houses, that all the families know who their rights are. Mrs. Geis said that it seemed to her that the Socialist Party had become independent. We're pretty sure it's not like that. But we should also make it very clear that the Socialist Party has nothing to do with socialists, and that they say 'not to vote and regulate the loguers. That's scandalous. We have also made some proposals with obviously independent logic and with anti-repressive logic. And we want to hang on for a while, taking advantage of the fact that Councilwoman Meritxell Budo is here today. Mrs. Budó accused the rest of the independents of normalizing repression. He told us, for example, to the CUP, that we normalize repression to make a proposal to the President of the Generality. And he said it – to the best of his knowledge – the very day that the generality's particular accusation against the participants in the general wave of November 8 is public. And he did it, in addition, from the same political space as Felipe Puig, Miquel Buch; the same political space as rubber balls, foam, tasers, charges to the airport, Urquinaona. The same political space that yesterday carried against the people who defended a decent habitat. The anti-repressive patience was also over, and we ask you to withdraw these words. In addition, they give their support to the company Dani Gallardo, hired in Madrid. Do you know that if Mr. Dani Gallardo were to be here, you'd be asking for three and a half years of jail time against them? Normalizing repression is what you do every day. Finish it. We have also made proposals in defence logic of the territory, in defense logic of the Hebrew river, which this week that the Platform in Defense of the Jews completed twenty years ago we want to say, once more, that "The laugh is life. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done – if he gives me a second month, president – putting them to approve – and we got them to send a mail to all the deputies and deputies – to stop the misappropriation of the agreement that Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana arrived at the Executive Council, in the Government: the agreement to make Hard Rock possible. A contract that accumulates...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.15.0	Congresswoman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.16.0	...a combination of misappropriations against the common good. You're doing me a favor and shutting this down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.17.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Vilalta has the word. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.18.0	Thank you very much, President. President Torra, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies. These are complex times, certainly, and marked by uncertainty. And not only because of the situation of coronavirus– pandemic–, but also because of the existence of a political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State and the relentless repression that we suffer. The last example of this general case against independence was that we lived yesterday with President Torra at the Supreme Court. And today from here – from this Faristol – we will reiterate our support and solidarity. A possible disqualification of his figure on the part of the Supreme Court is an absolute barbarity, would be an absolute barbarity. An attack on democracy. And before that we have to respond together. We've got it clear. We can't fall back into an episode of independence disorientation. We're on time. Dimecres, in the speech of the Molt Honorable President Torra, spoke of the perfect circle of repression. Well, we must make possible the perfect circle of democracy, because it is the way – democracy – in which we are stronger. We share with you the legal battle, which is and will be important, and we are convinced that Europe, if the case comes up, will find – as Oriol Junqueras, Carles Puigdemont or Lluís Puig have found – the justice that does not exist in the Spanish State. But the answer to disqualification, if given this disqualification, cannot only be a legal answer. He repressed her. He's trying to stop us from doing politics. Stop being a politician. And our proposal to fight it is precisely to do more and more politics. Now, and because I make it clear to all the Members of this House, we will not vote on the proposals to call elections calling for opposition, because you do so to wear down this government and accuse us of a failure. And we're not playing games with them, obviously. I'm not counting on us for this. The proposal made by Esquerra Republicana in this Faristol and that it makes in the conjunction of the citizenry is a responsible proposal in the times that run: pact, consensus, direct the agenda and explore the provisionality in time of Covid. Democracy as a response in a moment before judicial and repressive interference. And without any doubt, the best solution, the best answer we can find before this unheard of fact, will be the one that we continue to agree, to agree together. And here we are. Therefore, make it possible. While, however, what we have already done is to present a motion for a resolution between Junts for Catalonia, the CUP and Esquerra Republicana to condemn this repression against the three later Presidents of the Generality, also against the President of the Parliament, Carme Forcadell, among others. And to make clear in this proposal that only the majority of this Parliament has the legitimacy to hold or withdraw the trust of the President and the Government of the Generality. And in this line, from the Republican Left we also propose to the Government that I lead a broad front against repression and in defense of freedoms – in defense, too, of freedom of expression – and summon all political and social forces with the will to plant in front of this authoritarianism of the State and to be able to respond to this possible joint disqualification, in the form of a country. We also repeat that many years ago we defended and worked for: that the construction of the Catalan Republic is the best way to guarantee equal opportunities for everyone, to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens, to build a country with social justice and economic progress. And, besides, we know how to do it: forging the strategic unit, as we spoke before. Expanding the majority, leaving the way of dialogue and negotiation, strengthening the institutions so that they become useful, consolidating and also strengthening popular mobilization, accumulating each time more and more strength and facing repression, all to democratically overflowing the State: adding, adding, adding, and constantly preparing us. And all this, on the two pillars for which the great consensus of this country rests: the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty. And this – these two pillars – we have to defend them all the way: on the street, on the institutions, and on the months of negotiation that are needed. I would like to explain at this point that we will vote in favour of the proposal made by the Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem, of the reform of the Criminal Code proposed by the companies of Catalonia in Comú Puem. But I have no doubt that this reform does not solve the conflict of foundations or solve the severe repression that affects independence. It can be a good measure to democratize the State, but we know that amnesty is only the way, it is the measure to end this situation of general cause and this situation of injustice, and that only with the exercise of the right to self-determination can it give response to the political conflict of foundations between Catalonia and the Spanish State. And from the hand of building independence, of making this Catalan republic possible that we know how to make it possible and how to make it finally, we need to help in the day-to-day to the citizenry, and, that, in charge of making this government, to whom I want to aggravate all the dedication and effort of always and especially in these last months of pandemic. For this reason, we also present a battery of proposals, among which we claim more resources, such as, for example, with the modification of the deficit target, which would amount to 2,000_million more euros for the Generality; also for the joints, that these can use their novels and can be indebted. We propose that culture be declared an essential service, because now we know that culture is safe, but we also need to remember every day that culture makes us free. And we obviously have a proposal to guarantee the right to education for all children, because school is a source of social cohesion and a guarantee of equal opportunities and a guarantee of the future. For this reason, it was so necessary to reopen the schools and to be sure. And now that this is a reality, we have to conjure ourselves to keep it. Thank you to all you've made it possible. And in universities, more finance and more scholarships. We continue to compromise on strengthening the public health system, especially in the area of primary care. More inversion, more professional, more resources in mental health and a recovery plan for ordinary activity, which had to be done because of Covid, among others. We have come to a deal with the CUP, yes, indeed and we are not very proud, because it is urgent to take on the challenge of housing, unlike the Socialist party, which has strayed from the agreement to regulate the loguers. We want to tackle climate change, deploy carbon dioxide emissions tax, apply selective collection systems, bet on renewable energies. We also argued that the survival of the Ebre Delta is a question of country and, therefore, a rapid execution of the projects announced for the State in this area is absolutely necessary. As it is, a question of country also, precisely, that this country remains balanced and that is why we are pushing mobility tables to Central Catalonia, Penedès and Pirineu and we will also support the implementation of a rail service to the Lleida lands. Because we will vote in favour of many proposals from opposition groups, because we want to be useful and generate consensus. We continue with the unfolding of the policies of memory, historical memory, democratic memory, as Councillor Romeva very ambitiously pushed. And at times we are following with the deployment of Catalan delegations abroad, barely the weight to City, because they have seen themselves more necessary than ever these last few months. In the field of work, help self-employed people. We promote the social economy and solidarity. We also ask the State for the transfer of management of the services and subsidies of the duration, which until now manages the SEPE and which has been an absolute disaster; for this reason we want to be able to do so the SOC. We also call for the repeal of labor reforms and a good articulation of vital minimum income with guaranteed citizenship income, which is also reversed, and above all, the spread of the 215_million euros in employment policies. And yes, we ask again from here a solution to the State for the care of the children; it is so simple to hear how vital it is for the families of our country: a service to the families that must be provided in advance and that must take care of the children. That's how you help people, with measures like these and that the president of the generality and this government has claimed day after day. Therefore, fewer resolutions smoke here, as we are presented by the group of commons and more execute where they have the tools to do it. Moguin file, because the Ministry of Equality or the labor skills of the Spanish State are theirs. We present a battery of proposals to follow in Catalonia a country of crowded and we have already announced..., has already announced that Catalonia is committed to welcoming one hundred and twenty refugees from Lesbos. And we demand from the State, therefore, that it also comply with the commitments; not to do so is a shame. We are playing with the future of how we want Europe to be, and that, Mrs Romero, is lacking in political will and I would also like to say that it lacks humanity. We make a firm bet for the deployment of territorial coverage of the care network and full recovery for people, for women victims of male violence situation, because we need to eradicate male and male violence, as demonstrated by this compromise, that there is quadrupling of the layers of colliding or that more specific service of attention to male violence victims is planned. And we also defend equity in the food chain and achieve sustainable and environmentally friendly agricultural production. Finally, and also in this general policy debate, we wanted to denounce the state's keyloggers and the para-police operations that existed there. The Kitchen operation, the espionage to the President of the Parliament, among others, show the existence of a strategy to neutralize any political threat to the Spanish Government or any project of political dissent. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And that's a shame and it's a shame. How to investigate and eradicate all the cover-up of King Joan Carles' alleged crimes and all the collaboration of the State's bodies and forces. I ended up, President, a little as it began: work, work and work. They owe us to the public service, and that's what this government does, and that's what the Members of this Parliament do. On the contrary, the president said that he trusted the deputies of this chamber, we also trust you, president, and he has all our recognition, but we trust ourselves, we trust this country, we trust the people, especially the citizens and institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.19.0	Congresswoman, time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.20.0	I'm done. Let us conjure ourselves, therefore, because neither repression nor the pandemic can stop us from working for a better country...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.21.0	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.22.0	And this better country is called the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.23.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] We're done with the debate, we'll call the vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the polls. Before we begin the voting, I am sure that by today's ninety-one Members and Members have delegated their vote, a dozen Members and Members have joined the telematic vote and twenty-three Members will vote in person. Start... [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez asks to speak.]] Yes, say'm, Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.24.0	We would like to ask for a reading of one of the compromise proposals. I don't know if it's now or at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.25.0	Say it now and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.26.0	Yes, it would be the compromise proposal between the CUP Group - Crida Constituent and our group, about the Hard Rock Cafe - ai! "Coffee no, forgive me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.27.0	It is the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution number 16 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem and the proposal number 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, yes? [[Pause.]] We'll read it just before the vote, MP. We begin by voting on the motions for resolutions put forward by the Socialist and Unitarian Parliamentary Group to move forward. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was rejected by 64 votes to 69, with no abstentions. And we're voting number three now. Start voting. It was rejected by 24 votes to 65, with 44 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 69, with no abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 69, with no abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 24 votes to 109, with no abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to one, with 64 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 69, with no abstentions. And we're voting now at 14. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. We're voting now on the 15th, with built-in error correction. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes to 65, with 52 abstentions. And now we're voting number 16. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 17. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 18. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 19. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 68 votes in favour, against and 65 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 20. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and no abstentions. Next, we are voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 16 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. And now we're voting number five. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 16 abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 39 votes to 65, with 28 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 65, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 77, with 16 abstentions. And now we're voting number 10, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And now we're going to 12. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 13. The vote begins. It was approved by 68 votes in favour, against..., 65 abstentions – 68 in favour, against, 65 abstentions. We now vote on number 14. The vote begins. It has been approved unanimously, that is: 133 votes in favour, no against, no abstention. We now vote on number 15. The vote begins. It was adopted by 67 votes to 65. We now vote on number 16. The vote begins. It was adopted by 117 votes to 16, with 16 abstentions. And now we vote on number 17. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 69, with 24 abstentions. Let's go now to 18. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now at 19. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 77, with no abstentions. And we finally vote on number 20. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 77, with no abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's start with the first one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 69, with no abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 69, with no abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. And now we're voting number four. The vote begins. It was adopted by 121 votes to 12, with no abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 4 votes in favour, 129 against, no abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 56 votes to 12, with 65 abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 64 votes to 69, with 69 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And now we're voting number 9. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was rejected by 56 votes to 69, with 8 abstentions. And now we vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 76, with 16 abstentions. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. It was adopted by 64 votes to 69, with 69 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. He has been approved... – he has been rejected by 21 votes in favour, 108 against and 4 abstentions. I repeat, it has been rejected by 21 votes in favour, 108 against, 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. It was rejected by 48 votes to 65, with 20 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 56 votes to 44, with 33 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65, with no abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We now vote on number 5, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to 65. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 89 against, 32 abstentions. And now we vote on number 8. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 93 votes to 4, with 36 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 11. The vote begins. It was adopted by 44 votes to 40, with 49 abstentions. And now we vote on number 12. The vote begins. It was rejected by 64 votes to 65, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on number 13. The vote begins. It was adopted by 24 votes in favour, with 109 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. It was adopted by 113 votes to 20. We now vote on number 15. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. As resolution No 16 has been negotiated, we will vote on it at the end, together with the other negotiated proposals. Let's go now, then, to 17. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 16 against and 105 abstentions– 12 in favour, 16 votes against, 105 abstentions. We're voting now at 18. The vote begins. It was adopted by 116 votes to 16, with 16 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 19. The vote begins. It was adopted by 129 votes in favour, against and four abstentions. We're voting now at 20. The vote begins. It was adopted by 68 votes to one, with 64 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia jointly with the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's vote first. The vote begins. It was adopted by 109 votes to 16, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 16, with 40 abstentions. We're voting number four now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 16, with 48 abstentions. We're voting number five now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 105 votes to 16, with 12 abstentions. We're voting now at 6. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 109 votes to 16, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 56, with 8 abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 24, with 44 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 16, with 48 abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was adopted by 105 votes to 16, with 12 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 12. The vote begins. It was adopted by 109 votes to 16, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now at 13. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 52, with 12 abstentions. We're voting now at 14. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 20, with 44 abstentions. We're voting now at 15. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 56, with 12 abstentions. As resolution 16 has also been negotiated, we will vote on it at the end, with the rest. We are voting now, for that reason, on the 17th. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 16, with 48 abstentions. We're voting now at 18. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 20, with 44 abstentions. We're voting now at 19. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 56, with 8 abstentions. And we're voting now at 20. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 21. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 56, with 4 abstentions. And now we vote on number 22. The vote begins. It was adopted by 113 votes to 16, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 23. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 20, with 48 abstentions. We're voting now at 24. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 16, with 40 abstentions. We're voting now at 25. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 16, with 48 abstentions. We're voting now at 26. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 24, with 40 abstentions. We're voting now at 27. The vote begins. It was adopted by 117 votes to 16, with no abstentions. We're voting now at 28. The vote begins. It was adopted by 113 votes to 16, with 4 abstentions. We're voting now at 29. The vote begins. It was adopted by 105 votes to 20, with 8 abstentions. We're voting now at 30. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 20, with 36 abstentions. We're voting at 31 now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 76 votes to 16, with 40 abstentions. We're voting at 32. The vote begins. It was adopted by 101 votes to 16, with 16 abstentions. We're voting at 33. The vote begins. It was adopted by 105 votes to 16, with 12 abstentions. We now vote for number 34. The vote begins. It was adopted by 105 votes to 16, with 12 abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 64, with no abstentions. We continue to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It begins with the first motion for a resolution. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 56, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 97 votes to four, with five abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 56, with no abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 89 against, 32 abstentions. We now vote on number 5, as 4_has been negotiated, so we will vote on it at the end. We vote on CUP Resolution No. 5 - Constituent Call. The vote begins. It was adopted by 16 votes to 117. We're voting number six now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 80 votes to 52. We're voting number seven now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 48 votes to four, with 81 abstentions. We're voting number eight now. The vote begins. It was approved unanimously: 133 votes in favour, against, abstentions. We're voting number nine now. The vote begins. It was rejected by 40 votes to 65, with 28 abstentions. We now vote on number 10. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against, no abstentions. We now vote on number 11. The vote begins. It was rejected by 4 votes to 98, with 31 abstentions. We now vote on number 12. The vote begins. It has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 121 against, no abstentions. As number 13 has also been negotiated and we will vote at the end, we move directly to 14. We are voting on resolution No. 14. The vote begins. It was adopted by 77 votes to 40, with 16 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Tell me, Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.28.0	To make a vote acclaim to the vote of PR number 1, for a mistake of ours when marking. We would like to show that the vote has been in favour, and we know that it cannot be rectified, but that is why I am aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.29.0	Very well, the number 1 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed. All right, that's the record. All right, let's now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Republican Parliamentary Group. Let's start with number one. The vote begins. It was adopted by 65 votes to 56, with 12 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. It was adopted by 69 votes to 63, with no abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote on the compromise proposals and we shall, first of all, vote on the compromise proposal between the motion for a resolution No. 16 of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem and the proposal No. 4 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. Before we vote on it, we will read it, as requested. Therefore, ask the secretary, Mr. Pérez, who reads it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.30.0	« Proposal for a compromise resolution. The Catalonian Parliament rejects the conditions agreed for the Executive Board on March 3, 2020, for which it orders to the Catalan Institute of solo the acquisition and subsequent alienation, by direct award, of the land with private profit that are owned by Mediterranean Beach & Golf Community, SAU, and that are included in the scope of sector 1,.. Integrated tourist complexes- CTI.... of the Urban Master Plan for the reorganization of the scope of the Centre Recreaiu Turístic – CRT – in Vila-seca and Salou. Two. The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government not to formalise the agreement approved for the Executive Board on March 3, 2020, where, among others, the Incasòl will advance 96_million euros of the total 120_million of the operation, it will face the possible compensation of the former owners, assume the financing costs and will have to buy back the land for two years if this is the case for the buyer enterprise. Palau del Parlament, September 17, 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2020-09-18-6102.31.0	Thank you, secretaries. Let's proceed to the vote on this compromise proposal. The vote begins. It was rejected by 28 votes to 33, with 72 abstentions. And we now vote on the compromise proposal between the proposal for resolution number 16 of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group Republicà and the proposal for resolution number 13 of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. It was adopted by 73 votes to 60, with no abstentions. There are no more motions for resolutions to vote. Therefore, the session rises. Thank you very much.
