ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 178 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. The system shows that 206 MPs are present. I find that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 90 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session, alongside the MPs, candidates for president and members of the government. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to elect a government within the time limit set by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, on the basis of Article 121(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have established the following Dn e n i d: 1. The choice of government and the oath of president and members of the government. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, who agreed to Article 112 of Item 1(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by the President of the Republic of Mr Aleksandar Vukic. You received the consent of Ms. Ana Brnabic, the candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. Also, you received a motion for a decision to elect a government with biographies for government members, submitted by Mrs Ana Brnabic, a candidate for Prime Minister. Thus, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions were met: - that the candidate for Prime Minister should present to the National Assembly a programme of the Government and propose a composition of the Government (Article 127(2)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia), - to open a search for a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government (Article 269). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly), - that when the Government is elected, we should determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers without portfolio in the Government, on a proposal from the Prime Minister's candidate and elect the Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister (Article 99(2) point 1) and Article 125(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 10. The Government Act) and - that members of the Government take an oath before the National Assembly (Article 16th century 1st and 2nd). The Government Act and Article 271. Rules of Procedure. I ask Mrs. Ana Brnabic, candidate for Prime Minister, to present to the National Assembly a programme of government and propose its composition. The word has a candidate for Prime Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u328	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the second time in my life, I have the great honor to stand before you, present the Government of Serbia programme and seek support for this programme, to continue to affect the better quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Serbia is a much different country today than in 2017 and a fundamentally different country than in 2014. If I may put it that way, in the simplest way, Serbia has stopped being a country that is lower in history and has become a winning country. We've finally started to believe in ourselves, our own capacities and our own success, we've stopped looking for excuses for failure. We started working, we stopped whining. Internationally, Serbia has become a country of respect and respect, a country that leads an independent and independent foreign policy, a reliable partner for talks, not a country facing ultimatums and conditions. Serbia today is a financially and economically stable country. A country where unemployment is at a record low of 7.3%, an average salary of over 500 euros and a country where salaries and pensions are constantly increasing. A country that has entered a period of stable growth, which is one of the largest in this part of Europe, and probably the largest in Europe this year. This should be proud of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we did this together. We worked together, we fought together, we changed every day our habits and our thoughts to make ourselves more successful, and then our society in general would be more successful. Everything we've done in the last six, seven years has been all but easy. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, Aleksandar Vukic began to transform our country. By 2017, when I represented the government's work programme, this first and most difficult phase of transformation had already produced obvious results. Serbia has achieved financial and macroeconomic stability, decreased unemployment significantly. Then it fluctuated between 13% and 14%, started to see economic recovery, growth in 2016 was 3.3%. We have significantly improved business conditions, which was seen by one, through the jump to the "Duing Business" list of the World Bank and under two, through the fact that foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia has already come to a record of 2.6 billion euros at that time. We set out to solve and resolve some of the difficult issues that have seriously threatened our budget for decades, such as "Smederevo Irons" and RTB Bor. Serbia has become a credible partner and politically and economically. That's why, in 2017, I was clear, that government was the Continuity Government, with the economic, internal and external policy set up by Aleksandar Vukic in 2014, with the government tasked with moving into the next phase of transforming our economy and our society. This transformation is necessary to continue to build our economy and strengthen our society as a whole, has been the universal digitization of economy, education and public administration. And today I can say with great, thunderous pride that we have achieved a great deal in all areas. We have succeeded, as we have then plotted, to start this important transformation towards society and an economy based on knowledge and innovation. We have achieved a much more dynamic growth in our GDP and Serbia's GDP has increased by 14.8% from 2016 to 2020. In the fourth quarter of 2019 and in the first quarter of 2020, Serbia achieved the highest quarterly growth in Europe. In the second quarter, faced with a crisis caused by the Corona virus, we have achieved one of the smallest economic downturns in Europe. As I said, this year we will be the country with the best economic results in all of Europe. The unemployment rate dropped by over 6% between 2016 and 2020, registered employment increased by almost 10%, which means we created about 200,000 jobs. The average earnings are 34% higher today. Minimum earnings increased by 52% compared to 2016. Serbia's credit rating has been upgraded from BB minus to BB plus and today we are one step away from the investment rating. Public debt participation in GDP was further reduced from 67.8% at the end of 2016 to 48.4% in early 2020. Although this year there has been an increase in public debt in our GDP due to the crisis caused by the coronary virus, which has happened in all the countries of Europe and the world, I am proud that we have kept our fiscal discipline and stability domestically available money in the budget carefully planning us still managed to maintain the level of public debt participation below 60%. At this point, it's 56.8%, and we're not going to cross that 60 percent line by the end of this year. Inflation was held within or even went a little below them. Foreign direct investment reached a record 3.6 billion euros in 2019, almost 46% more than in 2015. We are together then, with my team with your support, supporting MPs set up a sector of information and communication technologies, the ICT sector as one of the sectors in which we will invest most because it has the most potential to pull us all back further forward and so that the productivity and competitiveness of the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia. The export of ICT services in last 2019 was almost twice as high as in 2016. In three years we doubled the exports of our ICT services, which was already large and significant in 2016. The exports crossed a billion euros and in 2019 it was a billion 420m euros, and the surplus in 2019 in the exchange of ICT services was the largest in the exchange of any goods or services from Serbia. In some areas, I may be the proudest Serbia has gone further in the past three years alone and has changed faster than many countries in Europe. Since 2017 IT has been required in elementary schools since the fifth grade, when students begin to learn block programming, while from the sixth grade they learn text programming, so that in the eighth grade they can meet with data science elements. Since this school year, for our champions, we have been in a great new subject – a digital world through which they learn to understand the world in which they live, to be more ready, more versatile and to have more confidence than their peers in other parts of Europe and the world. We have secured internet access in all primary schools in the Republic of Serbia, invested an additional 10m euros in fast internet access for 1,000 schools. Today we have 10,000 digital classrooms, and complete digitisation of schools must be completed by 2022. In this, Serbia is today one of the most advanced countries in Europe. That is why I am making it clear today about this new government that I propose to you that it will also be the Government of the Continuity of Political and Economic Continuity with that year 2014 and 2016 and 2017, and that, in line with our needs and challenges that we face and the results that we have opened and this time, of course, to continue our work, to continue our transformation, that we will open new topics that will further contribute to the strength of our country and the quality of life in it. Each of the ministers will, of course, have their priorities in their portfolio. As Government, we will have some basic directions of action that I am going to talk about today, which you can inform more about in the proposed programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that is much more extensive than my speech today, but this government will have six objectives to take into account in particular. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, also spoke about it. These are further fighting the Kovid 19 virus and strengthening our health, preserving the vital interests of the Serb people in KIM, fighting organised crime and a comprehensive war against the mafia, preserving independence and self-determining Serbia, the rule of law and speeding up reforms on our European path, and continuing Serbia's economic strengthening. The first priority over this government is to protect people's health, to support our health system in the fight against the Coronus virus. We have a rough day ahead of us, and we must have a rough winter ahead of us. Unfortunately, we have yet another difficult year, 2021, in which we will have to continue this fight, and we, and the whole of Europe, and the whole world. We expect that the world will only be able to return to such normality in 2022, and that in economic terms the world will recover from this crisis only in 2029, with then the relationship of power in the world will be very different from the one that was before this crisis or today. In all this, Serbia must continue to progress and must progress even faster. So I call on everyone, not only to restore, but to continue to be braver and bolder to build our society, economy and institutions to overcome the challenges posed by the Kovid 19 pandemic and to gather society in general for a better future in Serbia. In the previous period investments in health infrastructure were extremely significant. Since 2016, nearly 80 primary healthcare facilities have been renovated, so health care homes and infirmarys. Six large homes of health are under way, such as New Sad or Valjevo. Purchases for additional facilities have also been started. We invest more than 200m euros in the reconstruction and construction of 20 general hospitals and health centres across Serbia and more than 300m euros in the construction and reconstruction of clinics and specialised hospitals, some of which have been completed, as you know, like the Dragisa Misovic Clinical Hospital Centre, the Zemun Clinical Hospital Centre, the first phase of the Emergency Centre of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, etc. The works at the Clinical Centre of Serbia are under way, where the first phase will be completed in 2021, and we expect the beginning of the work on complete reconstruction and construction of the Vojvodina Clinical Centre. This is an estimated 34m-euro investment, and I hope that in the first 100 days of the government we will start these works and announce a tender for reconstruction and construction of the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, which is an additional investment of about 30m euros. This government will be an absolute priority to complete all this and start new projects in health infrastructure. There's an absolute priority for us to start building a brand-new university children's clinic called Tirshaw 2. The correctness of investment in health infrastructure is shown in every sense and best this year when we were faced with such a pandemic. Thanks to new and reconstructed facilities, we have managed to receive and treat all the patients in the Republic of Serbia. In order to continue to fight successfully, by the end of this year, we must, in collaboration with the Army of the Republic of Serbia, complete two more fully-required hospitals, which, after the crisis, will also pass this, will serve as a multi-functional hospital for everything that our health and our people need. In co-operation with the Army of the Republic of Serbia, I said, we must finish these two hospitals by the end of the year in Belgrade and Krusevec. Thanks to our fiscal stability and thanks to our economic strength, we were able to provide money this year for huge, truly huge emergency costs, for appliances, respirators, protective equipment, for tests, for additional vaccines against seasonal flu and other vaccines, and during the crisis crisis we also increase salaries for our healthcare professionals, for everyone in healthcare by an additional 10%. Serbia's health system has shown in these difficult times the willingness, professionality and resilience that we should all be proud of. Our healthcare professionals have been fighting for a long time without a break. I thank them again today, from this place, both them and their families. We will continue to work, promise and guarantee, on a constant increase in health pay, as well as their education, the equipment they work on and the conditions in which they work. By 2013, and everyone knows it in the Republic of Serbia, whatever some politicians say, health pay was really embarrassingly low. The doctor's salary was 67,540 dinars, while the nurses' salary was only 32,454 dinars. By 2020, we managed to raise the doctor's salary by 57% and the nurses' salaries by 67%. By knowing at this point that it's not enough and that we're going to have to do a lot more, a lot of work to really adequately pay all of our healthcare workers. As I say, it will certainly be one of the priorities. In order for our health care to be even more effective in the mandate of this government, we will work on a new topic, which is the complete digitization of our health care. We must provide all citizens of Serbia with a unique electronic health record, in which all data from all health institutions, from all records, will be available to them at any time and place, and to their doctors whenever they need them. In this way, we're going to put real citizens in the very center of our health system. This connected health system will be much more transparent, much more efficient, much more quality, will bring significant savings for the state budget, which we will then be able to invest in additional health infrastructure, in their salaries, in their education, in the equipment they work on. We also see the area of health in today’s world as a huge economic potential, health and biomedical science. The World Economic Forum estimates that the world will spend $25,000 a year on health care in 2040. So $25,000 a year will spend the world on health care! And, as in other areas where technology is causing a real revolution, these new players who are going to show up have a chance for growth that they wouldn't have without these changes. We want to, and we will work on it, to make as many of them from Serbia or to work in Serbia. Besides health, this government will have huge political challenges. Here, above all, I think of our relations in Pristina, the continuation of the normalisation dialogue, problems in establishing a community of Serb municipalities, of which, to be quite clear and precise, today from this place and before the MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will not give up. We keep our word and we stand behind our signatures on the agreements we negotiated and negotiated. That, I mean perfectly natural and normal, we expect others to continue their talks in the good faith. The new government will continue to lead a policy of protecting vital national interests, peace and co-operation in Kosovo and Metohija, with the aim of protecting our people, cultural and religious heritage, as well as peace and stability throughout the region. Priorities will continue to conduct negotiations with the temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina, improve economic development and living conditions of the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija and support the return of internally displaced persons. On this important issue, which I think is the biggest challenge for long-term sustainable security and stability of the entire region, the Serbian government will coordinate all its activities and all its moves to detail with President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic and representatives of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, because national and political unity on this issue is our absolute, absolute priority. In addition to these two serious challenges, we have a serious and difficult fight against organised crime, a mob that has thought for the past months that it is stronger than the state and that it can manage this country. Our job is to show that the state is always stronger, that there is no playing with the institutions and that no connection between the representatives of these institutions and criminals will be tolerated and that absolutely no one will be protected from them. In this fight, I now address our security services too well, we must particularly deal with the security of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who announced and launched this war against the mafia. Unfortunately, we all witness every day the most monstrous and reckless attacks on President Alexander Vukic and his family, only with one goal, to dehumanize him, to criminalise him, to the extent that every attack on him, verbally or physically, is fully expected, completely normal and completely understandable. The financial power of those who do this is enormous, so our energy to stand up to this must be much greater. I will take this personally as one of my assignments and I will fight only and exclusively for the truth, I will fight daily and tirelessly against all the lies that lie against the President of the Republic and his family. The victory over organised crime will require the participation of all branches of government and, above all, the judiciary. We will provide full protection to all those involved in the fight against organised crime. Every police and financial inspector, prosecutor, judge, journalist or state official who is being targeted by criminal gangs will be protected. Any citizen who helps fight crime will be protected. The two key points we're going to make are a decisive blow to organized crime. One, cutting off their sources of funding and breaking their ties, their connections and their network of influences in state bodies, politics and the media. We know this fight won't be easy or simple. We expect the support of all Serbian citizens and the absolute support of the legislative and judicial branches of government. This is a fight for our country and for the future of our children. I don't have a dilemma. In the struggle between the state and the mafia, the state will come out as a winner. I guarantee that we will be able to protect the will of our citizens and the man whom they directly and personally entrusted to lead Serbia into new victories. Generally, this government has to work even more, with greater energy and greater commitment, because although we are not the country that Serbia was like six or seven years ago, even with these results, not all people in Serbia felt enough and good quality of life, in terms of how much money they have in their wallets, what they can afford to their children, grandchildren can afford for that money, whether they have a paved way home, whether their children and grandchildren have the Internet in their village, whether they can easily get to their doctors, get adequate care, what schools they are, etc. In terms of the most concrete projects, as responsible politicians, we created the programme "Serbia 20-25". It is a programme of concrete areas, a list of concrete projects worth close to 14 billion euros, on which the government will work to reach the set target by the end of 2025 -- 900 euros in average wages in Serbia and between 430 and 440 euros in average pension. All that is in the programme "Serbia 20-25" are projects that will, in particular, clearly raise the quality of life of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia in the most tangible way possible. When we talk about road infrastructure, in just a few years we've managed to build 320 kilometers of new highways, which is more than in the past four decades. We finished Corridor 10 and finished Corridor 11, highway "Milos Veliki" to Cačka. Today, from Belgrade to Cačka is arriving in an hour and a half, incomparably safer and incomparably safer. We started building 290 kilometers of highways and fast traffic. We continued construction of the highway "Milos Velika" to Požega, started construction of the Moravski Corridor from Pojat to Preljina, we are building a section of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica and a highway from Belgrade to Sarajevo, a section of Kuzmin-Sremska Raca. Valjevo connects with the ‘Milos Velika’ highway part of Iverak-Lajkovac. Soon we will also finish the last share on the fast traffic station Kragujevac-Batocin, and the works are under way and on the bypass around Belgrade, from Ostružnica to Bubanj Potok. Speaking of railway infrastructure, we started work on the Belgrade-Novi Sad high track and by the end of next year, our citizens will travel between these two cities in 25 minutes. Next year, we begin the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, the metro in Belgrade and the Autoway of Peace, the Nis-Pločnik share that is extremely, extremely important for our citizens in Prokuplje and Kursumlia. We continue to prepare project-technical documentation for building the Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad highway, so-called "Balgrade". "Vojvodjansko P" and fast traffic stations Sombor-Kula-Vrbas-Becay-Kikind, which will connect all parts of the country's north. We allocate funds to build a northern bypass around Kragujevac, bypass around Loznica and bypass around Novi Sad with a new bridge over the Danube, and by 2023, works on the highway "Vozd Karadjordje" and construction of the southern stretch of the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, a section of Požega-Užice-Kotroman. The continued construction of the highway on Corridor 11 from Požega to Bolar remains one of the priorities. We continue with modernization and reconstruction of the railway network. Next year we begin work on the fast track section of Novi Sad-Subotica and modernising the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway. At the same time, we are working to prepare project technical documentation for the modernisation of the railway from Belgrade to Nis and from Nis to Presevo. After completing the preparation of the documentation we are currently working on, we will begin work on the reconstruction of the Bar Line, which will fully cover the main rail routes on corridors 10 and 11. Technical documentation for the construction of a modern dispatch centre from which all rail traffic in Serbia will be managed will soon be completed. We don't forget Serbia's east. In addition to the construction of the highway "Vozd Karadjordje", we will work on the construction of a fast traffic station from Golubac, from Corridor 10, via Pogorec and Velika Gradište. All these investments will be accompanied by the gasification of this region and the formation of a special zone for the chemical industry in Prahovo. Work to expand the capacity of the port of Prahovo will begin next year and this way, with existing investments, the eastern part of the country becomes more uncomparably competitive for attracting foreign and domestic investors. We're treating this as a national priority project. We will continue to invest in the development of water traffic, and the Morava airport will expand with another runway. The programme "Serbia 20-25", not to go further into details, provides for investment in agriculture, tourism, digitisation, education, sports infrastructure, culture, health care, youth care and population policy, and it will, if I may say so, be the star of leadership in our work when we talk about the most concrete projects. In addition to these concrete projects, we must continue to change things in our country and, above all, we must increase the overall productivity of our companies. This productivity is at this point relatively low, compared to the EU average. The company's productivity in Serbia is rising by an average of 1.1% annually, with a view to increasing GDP growth by one percentage point in the current productivity growth should double. At the end of the term of office, the previous government adopted three important strategies that are moving us towards further work. This is the Industrial Policy Strategy until 2030, the Smart Specialisation Strategy until 2027 and the Intangible Intelligence Development Strategy until 2025. All these three strategies identify similar problems and propose activities that address these problems, and these are in the shortest lines – strengthening human capacities, innovation in order to create additional values and raise productivity and, under three, stimulate entrepreneurship and start-up ecosystems. In terms of strengthening human capacities, one of the key priorities of the Serbian government will remain, of course, education. As of April next year, Serbia will for the first time, and I think it will also be one of the few countries in Europe and the world, with a unique information system of education. For the first time, thanks to this system, we will have a clear overview of our overall education system, and this review will allow us to make informed decisions on strategic investment, in order to adequately respond to the needs of our society and our economy. For the first time in a dinar, we will know exactly how much money we have invested as a state in the formal education of each of our citizens and how to improve the effects of these investments. In the next period, we will focus on developing preschool education, increased investment in kindergartens, equipment of preschool institutions and support for professional staff. Important tasks are also ahead of us to introduce dual education to higher education institutions and complete a new education strategy. The huge potential, when we talk about human capacities, is in our diaspora. In the previous term, we may not have been loud enough, but we have dealt with this issue extremely intensely. We have simplified the process of recognising foreign diplomas, amended the customs benefits regulation, so that people from the diaspora can return to Serbia, without paying customs duties on their own property, introduce a tax incentive to hire returnees and launch a "return point" on the initiative of our diaspora organisations, which provide information that all our diaspora can be included in Serbian society. Already at this moment, today, the "return point" is working to expand its programme so that in the future not only the partner of the diaspora on return, but a partner in finding employment, business, investment and other opportunities in Serbia. Two, so, in addition to human capacities, we have to continue to strengthen our innovation capacity. During the mandate of the previous government, we built an important innovation infrastructure structure, I would say, within a record short period. Today, Serbia has four scientific and technological parks, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Cačka. The Faculty of Technical Sciences from Novi Sad has a brand-new building to increase their capacities. Soon we end, too, in the first 100 days of the new government, another new building of a laboratory lamela, at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis, and during the following year, and another additional building of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Belgrade, all in order to increase their capacity to enroll more students, that we have this as some stock for the future. In the mandate of this government, we need to start building the BioSens Institute in Novi Sad, an additional building of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade, to finally build a research centre in Kragujevac, and also to provide logistics and any other support for private initiatives to open research centres in Serbia, and fortunately, indeed, we now have more and more. It is extremely important that we work to improve telecommunications infrastructure throughout Serbia. By these roads, which we've already built, which we're building, we have to build digital roads. What does that mean? This means that we provide quality internet in every village in Serbia, in every village, in every household in Serbia. In the 21st century, it's a minimum human right, like electricity and water. It is the only way we will allow everyone, wherever they live in Serbia, equal opportunities for development, equal chances for education and equal chances for scientific action, equal chances for entrepreneurship, too, because today you cannot expect people to start their own companies if they do not have an internet connection in their village where they live, their own village. Our vision is that by 2025, there is no household in Serbia anymore that is not covered by broadband. We must continue to strengthen our competitiveness in the field of intellectual property and patents. This is what will lead us to this innovation-based economy, to more productivity, to greater added value, to even faster growth and development. To stimulate entrepreneurship, and that's the third item that's extremely important. In 2018, we introduced special reliefs for young people who had completed school in the past 12 months, if they wanted to start their own company, as well as for older people who were registered for more than six months in the National Employment Service and cannot find a job. Thanks to these reliefs that took place on 1 October 2018, more than 1100 businesses, including about 1000 entrepreneurs, have been registered so far. However, when you look at the global competitiveness index, we are extremely misranking in attitude towards entrepreneurship risk, i.e. the willingness to risk and start our own business. In this segment we take 107 positions of 141 states. So we need to improve and support the development of an entrepreneurial spirit in the Republic of Serbia. And we're going to try to do this through different measures, but one thing we need to do is in collaboration with youth organisations and youth representatives throughout Serbia work on amendments to the Youth Act and to analyse and revise the national youth strategy, so that one of the priorities in the work is to improve youth entrepreneurship. We also saw in those reliefs that we introduced in 2018 that young people are much harder to decide to start their own companies, but that when one of them is founded, not to shut them down, to resist, to work, to fight and to keep those companies alive. This is why we care about youth entrepreneurship in particular. During the mandate of the previous government, the state for the first time began to systematically support the development of the startup company. We have done a lot of things since the constant increase in the budget of the Innovation Action Fund, through the facilitated financing of the start-up of business through the three-year tax release and contribution to the incomes of the founder, the 30 % tax credit for companies investing in the start-up of businesses and enabling the participation of employees in capital through the rights of their own share. We have also created a legal basis for the business of alternative investment funds in the Republic of Serbia. We'll keep working on this. Our goal in 2025 is for our startup eco system to grow 20% annually and to get about 300 startup companies it has today to 700. One of the things that bothers us as a government, we need to find a way to more effectively link our science to our economy and our industry and thus raise our productivity and our competitiveness. We have significantly increased the budgets of science research and development in the previous term, we have also formed new institutions such as the Fund for Science of the Republic of Serbia, but despite the fact that today you look at investment in research and development are much lower in Serbia than those in the EU countries and much lower than the standards provided for in the Lisbon Convention. In fact, the biggest problem is that private sector participation in investment in research and development is very low. We have introduced new forms of fiscal relief for investing in research and development for companies, but we need to work much more on this in the mandate of the future government. What other sectors are important to us for growth? Certainly agriculture. The importance of agriculture, the importance of the self-sustainability of a country, more than ever proved during the crisis. Serbia was one of the few countries in the world that at no time had food shortages and basic life supplies. On the contrary, despite the crisis, we continued to export both raw materials and products and thus helped everyone in our region. I must say, I think that during the term of office of the previous Government of Investments in Agriculture, they were really smart, systemically and strategically. They were aimed at making our agriculture more sustainable, to become more resistant to climate change and to raise this competitiveness. We invest and invest in irrigation systems. When we left, only 2% of the agricultural area was covered by the irrigation system. Imagine how long these decades have been ahead of us, how much agriculture has been forgotten and abandoned. And all this time, everyone was saying that agriculture is our priority. When you have a priority you have to seriously work on it, you have to focus on it, you have to invest in it. In addition to the irrigation system, we have invested for the first time, I think in the electrification of agricultural areas, in order to lead these irrigation systems to agricultural producers and their fields. We've invested our way into automatic anti-urban protection, we've invested in subsidies to rebuild the machinery and buy new equipment, and we've set out to stimulate the improvement of the fruit material and production process. We financed and built 14 irrigation systems. We've left another 18, which we must end up as Government. We set up the first in this region, a fully automated anti-urban protection system, that was the Valjevo Radar Centre, which was the most endangered area in the previous period and we started to equip the Radar Centre of Fruška Gora, Baša, Samuš, Užice and Bukulja. We also have to finish it. We have agreed on a line of defense against the city, which will defend our farmland from Republika Srpska, to act together. As for the electrification of agricultural areas, we have successfully implemented pilot projects, first projects, on the territory of Leskovec, Žitoraj and Varvarina. In the next period, we must complete the electrification of agricultural areas, at an area of 10,000 hectares, on the territory of the Sword and then start additional, new projects. We opened up, if I'm not mistaken in 2017, the IPARD Fund, the EU Agricultural Support Fund. What we need to do in the term of office of this government is speed up the process of approving and contracting support and thus realising planned investment from IPARD funds. Perhaps the most important new task, or task to which we have to put much more focus and attention in the next period, is to work more on the relationship between our agricultural and our food industries. That's where we have a chance at added value. That is why we have proposed and requested a change in the Ministry of Agriculture Act, so that the food sector will move from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Agriculture, so that they will work much faster and much more efficiently and have significant tangible successes in the coming period. We are, unfortunately, among the countries that give agricultural production the least value through the further processing chain. We have a predominant export of raw materials and low-grade products, which represents lost added value in the food industry sector. It is one of our greatest chances to take a step into the production higher degree of finalisation, and to transform from the exporters of agricultural products into exporters of food and finished products. There will be a particularly important segment of winemaking and winemaking, which in the past few years, indeed records exceptional growth and strengthening. Therefore, as soon as possible, in the first 100 days of government work, we must adopt as Government a strategy of winemaking and winemaking in the Republic of Serbia, and end the new wine law and refer it to you for discussion and adoption. Another new area, you believe extremely important, although everyone will laugh at me again, or most of them will laugh, as they laughed when I talked about digitization, another important area of artificial intelligence. We adopted a strategy for the development of artificial intelligence in the Republic of Serbia. This made us the first country in Southeast Europe, so not in this region, but in Southeast Europe, which adopted such a strategy and only the 26th country in the world, which adopted this strategy. I was overjoyed and too proud when I saw, if I wasn't wrong in September, when a new index of readiness for artificial intelligence came out, comparing 194 countries of the world, that Serbia had jumped, even 12 places this year, in this index of readiness for artificial intelligence, and that we are now ranked as the 46th country, of the 194 being measured. That we are absolutely the first in the Balkans region, which includes Croatia, and that compared to 2019, in this year we reached Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, ahead of us are still Hungary and Slovenia. I believe we can change this in 2021. This shows the potential we have in artificial intelligence that's really going to change the whole world in the next period. And it is good that we today position ourselves as one of the leaders who understands what it is that we have to do to help our society to speed up our development, in order to also, overall, improve the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia. We have already begun to apply the Strategy for the Development of Artificial Intelligence by allocating the Fund for Science, for 12 projects from artificial intelligence. Also, a competition is under way to develop new master programs at our faculty in artificial intelligence. We will already have the first generation of students from this area in 2021. Do you know how far we have gone, how far we have stepped out and how much advantage we have made to our competitors compared to everyone else, not just in the region, in this part of Europe, and in Europe in general? We, as Government, will have to introduce one platform, software and hardware, for all of us, for the wider development of testing and solutions based on artificial intelligence and to provide this for all our scientific institutes, for scientific and technological parks, for our colleges, for our public administration, and also for our economy, because they don't have the means to invest in this. So we'll finish it and it'll be at the Data Centre in Kragujevac. And despite everything we're doing, it's going to give us some serious wind in the back to get us back on board in the future as one of the leaders. We will also establish in co-operation with scientific research institutions, the economy and the public sector and the Institute for the Development of Artificial Intelligence, and this is one of the new priorities, new areas for the future government. We can do this all during 2021, believe it or not, because we're ready today. In the mandate of the previous government we've worked really hard on this, and now we just have to capitalize. Creative creation and culture cannot have a knowledge-based society and innovation unless you invest much more in culture, one and then creative creation as such, in principle. What is particularly important to us in the next term, we must deal with education and more to invest in the education of young talents of art. We need to build, expand, create better conditions for the work of art schools. First of all, I mean the Faculty of Fine Arts, the Faculty of Applied Arts, the Faculty of Music Arts. It's really for the Faculty of Music Arts. Guys, we can't have the Faculty of Music Arts in a room that was created 80 and a few years ago as a temporary room. We have to show that as a society and as a government, we really take care of it. Believe me, this will in its own way contribute to our economic development and the quality of our lives. We've already launched all these three projects, so we'll go much faster in the term of the next government. We will work to improve professional, artistic secondary schools and strengthen artistic gymnastics education, and here I am also proud that, apart from specialized IT departments in high schools, in high schools, for the first time this year, we have introduced specialized art departments. We started with four high schools in the Republic of Serbia and we should continue to expand that in the mandate of the future government. It is extremely important to facilitate the conditions for working with a focus on individuals, independent, free artists, and I believe that in the term of this government we will finally resolve the status of independent and free artists after decades. We will encourage the redesign of cultural and industrial heritage objects by opening new cultural centres and creative spaces. One such example will also be the refurbishing of a joint in Sava Street in Belgrade into a modern creative space. We have to support and successfully realise, together with Novi Sad, the project "New Sad – European Capital of Culture" in 2022, and then to decentralised the culture, to strengthen the institutions of culture at the site, also to launch a domestic project "National Capital of Creation". We have to finish up the National Theatre in Subotica, launch a whole series of new projects, primarily the construction of a new Philharmonic building. I am proud of the fact, too, that we were the first government of international financial institutions, in this case the Council of Europe Development Bank, took a 20m-euro loan just to invest in cultural infrastructure, infrastructure in culture, improve working conditions for our artists in general. Tourism. Over the past four years, tourism has shown that it has a serious, huge potential. Unfortunately, in 2020, it was devastating for this sector throughout the world. We must continue to invest in it, to help them survive, to return to their feet and see, too, how can we keep what we have seen to be a great potential in this year, which is that our people stay in Serbia, summer, winter, spend weekends on beautiful destinations in the Republic of Serbia. During the term of office of the previous Government, we have set up a system of "e tourists" which for the first time represents a record of all our capacities and their capacity and we will now use this system as a government for better planning, better forecasting and better targeted investment. We will continue to encourage investment in our accommodation capacity in Banja Lukas, and we will continue to subsidise holidays, or holiday vouchers in Serbia, because this is what has really proved to be the best way to encourage our citizens to fly, winter in Serbia and help all our domestic tourist facilities. Thanks to all that has been done since 2014, we have no doubt come to the stage when we need to turn to the topic of environmental protection and the ecological sustainability of our development. And at a time when unemployment is low, when our economic prospectuses are good, when wages are still low, in some continuous growth, the quality of the environment becomes one of the burning issues when it comes to the general quality of life of citizens. In that sense, this will be one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We really need to start working on this systematically. The increase in environmental standards, first of all when we talk about wastewater and solid waste, and protection of citizens' health, and above all I mean air quality, is what we're going to invest significant resources in months and years ahead of us. Wastewater treatment is one of the biggest tasks our generation faces and what is amazing, when I looked at little indicators, during the time of the former Yugoslavia, at the time of our largest infrastructure investment development, is estimated to have built 44 wastewater treatment plants, and we need to build 320 over the next 15 years. It's such a challenge and so much investment will require it. Of the estimated 10 billion euros in investment in environmental protection, half of it is in wastewater treatment plants. As for the management of solid waste, I think to all of us, and we've talked a lot about it and during the previous term, we've been discussing these things here, these things have been initiated by some MPs, I think it's absolutely unacceptable for all of us to have over three and a half thousand dumps and insanitary dumps scattered across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we have to go to solve this issue. We can't talk about quality life if we don't solve this issue. I understand why we haven't done it so far, because it's huge investments, it's also investments that slowly lead to citizens' lives, but we now have to do this and we're in the development phase when this chapter has to be opened. As far as the energy sector is concerned, he is one of the key to doing this. We will continue to modernise the electricity infrastructure, complete the construction of a master's pipeline from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary. It is called the "Turkish Stream". We will start building a gas interconnection between Bulgaria and Serbia. We will work to expand the capacity of the underground gas storage facility in Banatski Dvor, honourable MP Mr. Bajatovic, and as part of the Green Agenda we will try to continuously increase the share of renewable energy sources in the production of electricity and heat and to increase and stimulate energy efficiency in Serbia, but at any moment taking care of electricity prices for end-users. We will make even greater efforts to implement projects and measures to protect the environment in energy capacity. We have started the construction of a gas deforestation facility in TE "Nikola Tesla A" and we will continue to implement other and similar projects. As far as the mining sector is concerned, not to be too long, the special focus will be on the realization of the Jadar project, which represents a great opportunity for our country, given that Loznica has the location of a newly discovered lithium borate mineral, so-called "Litium Borate". The sails. And this project has the potential to position us as a significant supplier of the world market for the production of lithium batteries for electric vehicles and energy storage. Another huge potential. Our goal is to form a strategic partnership with the third, with at least one, third, fourth or fifth company, which will start producing electric batteries in Serbia or/and a company that will start producing hybrid and electric cars here. For all I've been saying, I need an effectively responsible state administration and we are a successful transformation of public administration into an efficient service of citizens, we started with a mandate in the previous government, that is, in 2016, through the digitisation of public administration. This is what we have to keep working on, and the next government will finish and put into operation a system of enormous importance for the Republic of Serbia that I have already mentioned, which is the Data Centre in Kragujevac. We will have the most modern and secure data storage centre for all our citizens and our businesses, but it has another additional potential, which is that when we conclude contracts with large commercial users, and we have signed letters of intent with several of them including, if I am not mistaken, we will convert the Microsoft, IBM, HUAWEI and similar ones who want to place their equipment and data in this most modern Data Centre in Kragujevac, Kragujevac into a regional IT centre. The most serious reform that awaits us, which we have put off primarily because of the crisis, KOVID crisis, is the introduction of payment classes. We need to apply the Law on the Public Sector Payments System and the Law on the Payments of Employees and Deputys in Authorities of the Autonomous Province and Local Self-Government. We have to finish this in order to make it possible for everyone in the public administration to be paid in relation to the workplace and the responsibility of the work they do to be paid equally, not depending on where they work or where they work. We must work faster on reforming public enterprises and we have already launched this in collaboration with our partners such as the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund. This will be important not only for budget assistance, but will significantly boost the overall competitiveness of our economy. We have important things to do in the domain of social policy. Priority reform is a work on social maps that will allow citizens in the most difficult economic situation to be more visible in the system in order to exercise their right to the necessary support in a timely manner. This will improve social welfare control and result in much better and much more fair distribution of money. The second priority in this area will be to expand the scope of seasonal employment reforms, we have more than successfully implemented this reform in the agriculture sector and in the mandate of this government we must extend this to the sector of construction, tourism and catering and home assistance. The population policy is now being raised and placed in the ranks of the entire ministry. In the previous period, we achieved significant results by funding the measures of population policy. Compared to the region, Serbia is the only one recording the growth of live births in 2019 compared to 2018. The total fertility rate, i.e. the number of children per woman, for the first time in 15 years is more than 1.5%. One of the priority tasks will be to further change with your help and support, respected MPs, the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children in order to clarify more clearly certain things that have been a problem in the application of the law, as well as to change certain members of the laws to which relevant civil society organisations have shown us as problematic. We will also change the legal framework in order to make payments directly to pregnant women by the state in the future, not through employers to prevent late payments and ensure additional safety for pregnant women. We also plan to work on resolving the housing issue for young couples, subsidising kindergartens and dispensing funds for a richer network of preschool institutions, especially through partnership with employers that will allow better coordination of work and parenting. We'll continue strategic investment in sports. Recorded investment in sports in the previous period has brought us record successes recorded by representative sports. In the past five years, we have as many as 265% more medals won than ever in a 14-year period. It is politically important for me to stress this, the government I propose is pro-European. Our task is to speed up the process of European integration in the coming period. The change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the work of the judiciary is a necessary step in further strengthening the rule of law and further harmonising with European legal assets and European standards. In the previous term, the Serbian government has, following extensive public consultations that lasted just over 18 months, as well as consultation and support of the Venice Commission, given the Assembly an initiative to amend the Constitution so that our judiciary would certainly be independent, but independent of any and all political influences, but also much more effective and much more responsible for its citizens. We will continue to support the amendments to the Constitution in the area of the judiciary in order to find the best solutions for our legal system. As for media space, a media strategy was adopted for the period until 2025. The government has done this work in partnership with media and news associations, whose representatives accounted for half of the working group for the creation of a media strategy, and I would also like to thank our partners from the OSCE mission in Serbia, the EU delegation to Serbia, the Embassy of the Kingdom of Norway and the Conrad Adenauer Foundation, who have helped us in this task. The same working group continued working on an action plan for implementation of the strategy and it will be one of the first documents on the new government's agenda, and then together we must continue to work on a full set of changes and additions to media laws. Media and civil society must be among the most important partners in all the reform processes that are being implemented and that are expecting us in the coming period. That is why we have decided to form a new portfolio, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue within the government of the Republic of Serbia. This ministry will, among other things, work to improve dialogue and co-operation with civil society organisations and I know this will not be an easy task. I know we must, first of all, work and build trust. I believe and can guarantee that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is fully prepared and fully honest when we say that we will work on this. It seems to me, of course, that the minister will say that one of the first tasks of this ministry is to establish a basis for further work on the strategy and for creating an incentive environment for the development of civil society, as a comprehensive document, which, together with civil society, will determine the direction of our further co-operation. The Serbian government will work to strengthen a democratic society where all citizens enjoy equal rights, have equal opportunities to achieve their potential and equal participation in all aspects of social, cultural, political and economic life. Accordingly, high among the priorities of the future government will be an inclusive society, a society in which the difference is respected and valued, in which it is actively fighting discrimination and prejudice in politics and in practice and society that offers equal chances for all its citizens. Dear People's MPs, in the regular parliamentary elections, held on 21 June 2020, the list of Alexander Vukic – for our children, received huge trust from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, almost unprecedented in modern Serbian political history. Such confidence carries equal responsibility for Serbia's further development, the quality of life in it and how happy people in Serbia are, satisfied and fulfilled. Through all the challenges ahead of us, and there are many, Serbia must be guided and protected as a fundamentally free, independent and sovereign state, which is on the European path in both political and valuable terms, but which keeps its friendly relations with both the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China and all our other partners, including the United Arab Emirates, India, Turkey, Brazil, Latin America, as such in general, and many others, do not mind me if I didn't mention them, but indeed with everyone, and builds ever better relations with the United States. We will continue to run what I call active networking policy today, committed to actively speeding up European integration, regional co-operation, expanding ties with other partners around the world and strengthening their presence in international organisations and transnational forums. I must say that one of our goals will be membership in the World Trade Organisation, where we are not yet a member. When we talk about our region, I think it should be clear to all of us that only the development of the good neighborhood allows sustainable, safe development of Serbia itself. Only a secure and secure region ensures that Serbia is safe and safe. Therefore, we will continue to work in regional co-operation, economically, on the implementation of the so-called initiative. "Mini Schengen" or four freedoms, aimed at facilitating freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital. In addition, the government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to work and show interests in line with universally accepted international standards, on the status of Serbs and Serbian language in the countries of the region and we will continue to insist on respecting basic rights, languages, identities, religious membership and the cultural heritage of Serbs in the same way that the rights of other peoples and national minorities are consistently respected in the Republic of Serbia. The positions of the definition of security and defence policy, as shown in the highest strategic documents, the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy, adopted in 2019, are the basis for further upgrading and strengthening the national security system and the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is defined to strengthen defence capacity and develop its defence industry, an effective and economically sustainable defence system and a professional and efficient military system, and we will continue to invest in this and we will continue to work hard on this. Despite all the challenges, I say again, as I say about the region, we must keep peace, and almost at all costs. Peace and stability are the preconditions for the preservation of everything we have created and the achievement of all these other plans, which will further strengthen our country. Respected members of the government or respected members of my team that I propose for members of the government, we need to review daily the quality of life of Serbian citizens from different aspects. We must constantly analyse and work on the quality of our paths and all roads in every part of Serbia, in every village, in every village, in every village of Serbia, together with representatives of local self-government, whether we should build new ones, whether we should rebuild them, how much cities and municipalities in Serbia are connected, how connected we are with the region, what our schools are, where we should invest, what health care is, but really what health care we provide to our citizens, how easy it is to get to it from any and every part of Serbia, what kind of wages, what pensions, we have to keep an eye on how really in the real world in the real world every day all our citizens live. We will try to remind the authorities of the administration every day at all levels that every single person, every citizen, every single citizen, must be at the centre of our attention, that we are here because of our citizens and that we serve them, that we must never be too busy to hear their needs and work to solve them, even every single problem. Then when you solve an individual problem, you work, change the laws and solve it for everyone else, systemically, institutionally. This government must continue to build on Serbia's winners in areas where we have rarely won through history, if ever, in the economy, at the rate of unemployment, technology, innovation, huge faith in ourselves, in our people and our future. If we get your support today, the future government will have 21 portfolios and two ministers without portfolios. I am proud of the fact that we have six brand-new ministers and even 11 women, who will be leading some of the most complex resources in the government, which will face some of the biggest challenges. I, from this place today, invite all others, businesses, civil society organisations, all other actors in society, to follow the example that we are doing today, i.e. I as a prime minister and my team, but also you as a Assembly, which currently has almost 40% of women in parliamentary benches. These changes in the government also say that we listened carefully to what the citizens had told us in the elections, that we understood that we had support and that we were doing good, but that we had to do even more vigorously, that we needed new knowledge and new enthusiasm. I propose to the members of the future Government of the Republic of Serbia: Branko Ružić for the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Branislav Nedimović for Deputy Prime Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Energy, Nebojsa Stefanović for Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Defence, Maja Gojković for Deputy Prime Minister of Culture and Information, Siniš Mali for Minister of Finance and Infrastructure, Angelka Atanasković for Minister of Economy, Irena Vujić for the Minister of Environment, Tomislav Momirović for the Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Tatjana Matanaković for Minister of Trade, Tourism and Teks, Tourism Minister for the Minister of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Slovenia and Ministers for the Republic of Slovenia. I expect all members of the government to be fully committed daily to achieving the goals we set together today. There is no greater honor, and it is good to say this three times, there is no greater honor than to serve your country and your citizens. There is no greater honor than to serve your country and your citizens. That's how I expect all of us to act every day. I'm asking us to fight, not to deal with the current situation. I ask that we always try to achieve more. Remember that we are responsible to the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that they are the only ones we work for. We have a challenging time ahead, but in 2025 Serbia must be a country where the average salaries of 900 euros, average pensions between 430 and 440 euros, a country where unemployment at the level of the Eurozone, a country of modern education and infrastructure, are well-connected, a leader in advanced technologies and digitalisation, a country of perspective, a country of winners in every sense, and each of us must know about it and each of us must do our best every day for our people and for our Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Brnabic. For the record, it wasn't me who turned off your microphone, it was the system that was old. They've been saying it for 30 years, but it's not that much. We heard the programme presented by Mrs Ana Brnabic, a candidate for Prime Minister, and a proposal for the government's composition. I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, under Article 96(4). According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government. Before I ask the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups if they want a word, allow me to, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 1800 hours because of the need for decisions to be taken today by emergency procedure and that we expect that, as of 20.00 hours, according to course of time that MPs will use for discussion, in due course, at about 20.00 hours, we have the goal of being around 20.00 hours, if MPs support this proposal, there will be an oath. And I'm also going to say this that, even though that was the case earlier today, we, apart from the personal guests of the president and the members of the government, have not invited guests because of the epidemiological situation to take the oath, simply that you have it in mind. Also, I'd like to inform you that there will be a break in work, as we said, between 14:00 and 15.00 hours. That's all I'm saying just because you can plan today. We're moving on to a debate now. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Since the rule, just to remind myself once again, is that the first word is given to representatives or presidents, or vice-proportional to the number of MPs, means it starts from the smallest to the largest, Shaip Kamberi, because his parliamentary group has the smallest number of MPs, has six, has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u330	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, peacemakers, good afternoon, judging by the reactions to my previous speech from last session, and if I listen to the advice that Mesa Selimovic gives to a man who wishes well not to always say what he thinks, I should be silent today. However, I am not elected here to keep my mouth shut, but on the contrary, to say what I disagree with. I am here thanks to the voices of Albanians of the Presevo Valley, and I am honored to represent citizens who gave their voice to an indigenous Bosniak party in Novi Pazar SDA Sandzak. So I represent neither the yellow, nor the blue, nor the red, nor the black, but the discriminated Albanians of the Presevo Valley. Today, we are asked to support the election of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, the new government with the same prime minister, with the same boss, the state in which both the prime minister and the government and parliament are "the flight of the semi". Such a parliament is different from the government, parliament is the new, special, only opposition in it are MPs of the United Valley and the SDA Sandzak. Who could have thought that one day the only parliamentary opposition in Serbia could be the Albanians of the Presevo Valley and the Bosniaks from Sandzak. Six out of 250 MPs. How sad for democracy. Such a parliament could not produce even Slobodan Milosevic, but Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic proved more effective than their political fathers. This coalition, composed of so-called The right and left centre, produced as never before in pluralist Serbia totalitarian power, of course, through the electoral process, as well as all modern totalitarianisms and authoritarianisms. The only truth of the "Serbia as Europe" password is Serbia as Belarus, though there are at least in the streets in the Mine opposition, but as the retouched radicals pass, they take care of their image. Who best represents their pro-European image than the President of the Government of Women, Liberals, educated at Western universities and originating in civil society. The government with 11 women. Multiethnic authority, and without a single minority minister. The cream on the cake is now the ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue. What a beautiful-looking, perfect-looking scenario. Welcome to heaven stability and progress. Serbia is more peaceful than Sweden and Germany with neo-Nazi threats or Spain with its separatists. No more photos from the mountains around the bombed-out Sarajevo. No more speech by 100 Muslims for one Serb from the minister of information and the head of the propaganda of Milosevic's regime, we are also going to the offices in Washington and Brussels to sign the agreement and with the leaders of the former UCK. According to a photo of Comrade Cedo Jovanovic, a verbal duel with Vojislav Seselj, which is used in a maestro to show the apparent threat that there is a worse option than we are. Yesterday's pyromaniacs were transformed into today's firefighters, dressed in a suit of democratic reformers. Why not, when the opposition in Belgrade shows every day the inability to produce real discontinuity with the former regime. Today, Serbia has a power that is allegedly a guarantee of regional stability and peace with modern political discourse, as it is said. Anointed by the world's power centers, which prefer stability rather than democracy. Serbia is booming. On the one hand, meetings and parties with Donald Tramp, Angela Merkel, Emmanuel Macron, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Vladimir Putin, Bakir Izetbegovic, Andrej Plenkovic, Milo Djukanovic, Josip Borell, as well as Hashim Thaci and Eddie Ram. On the other hand, "deep state" and "capture state", daily language of hate and sexism, lynching and blacking, threats to opposition and minorities, xenophobia flowers, Shipari, Turks, Ustasha, NATO criminals, daily jargon of propaganda machinery. In such a psychological war that would be better for the task of police minister than former spokesman Mira Markovic, so-called. In the '90s, you're a war-scraper who avoids military service. Left-wing radical, black shirts, a pseudogevarist who boasts insults that guides minorities, which best confirms Philip David's that primitiveism is contagious.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u331	I would ask you, Mr. MP, no matter what you belong to the opposition MP's group to take care of the dictionary, the insults and the others. I'm just quoting a Serbian writer. ) I would ask you to use terms similar to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't waste my time. I don’t want to discuss it at all, and I don’t want to do it at all, and I could, whether something is true or not. You're wasting my time. I am just warning you to apply the terms and use the dictionary applied to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia so that I do not have to take measures. I had no intention of taking any action like this. Don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u332	Will you count me in on this time too?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u333	Of course I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u334	In what political, social, economic, cultural, health and education state have you brought Serbia's self-called patriots? Serbia's Dimitri Tucovic, Danil Kis, Bogdan Bogdanovic, Ivan Đuric, Borka Pavicevic? They probably roll over in the grave, too. But this autocracy and co-cracies has its own lifetime. It won't even help geopolitical balance tactics as a ridiculous copy of Tito's Yugoslavia. It's enough to watch a picture of President Vukic in the White House's oval room since 4 September to understand reality, without entering into the analysis of the commitments he made that he swore in 1999 he would never amnesty to the Americans for NATO bombing. Dear colleagues, I am aware that you are listening to me with prejudice and subjectivism because of my identity. Yeah, it's true. I am Shaip Kamberi, an Albanian from the Great Trnovec municipality of Bujanovac. I am the president of the Party for Democratic Action, which has been institutionally favouring the rights of Albanians since the 1990s, as is true that I have a passport from the Republic of Serbia and I pay taxes to this country. But in today's Serbia, there is no longer any importance of citizenship and citizenship, although no knowledge of Serbian language if you are different, and where citizenship and citizenship have no meaning of how to expect freedom and equality. Today's Serbia is primarily a problem for the Serbs themselves. Serbia, which is not democratisationd nor by the fall of the single-party system when Ivan Stambolic was brought down, nor by the fall of Milosevic on October 5th, nor when Zoran Djindjic was killed. We came from the idea of Serbia's Serbianisation of Yugoslavia. Today, Serbia cannot be imagined not as the Republic of Serbs, but as one man's republic, a man whose authority is stronger, while Serbia's potential is falling, primarily demographically. People were running because of wars, running away today because of authoritarianism. It was pathetic yesterday, it's pathetic today. But, let it be, it is important that Serbia has its master who depends on the fate of each and every one of us and the fate of this government that was declared temporary even before it was elected. What do you expect from Serbia that is unable to identify anti-fascist personalities and movements, from a Serbian who is equating partisans and Chetniks? How do you expect Serbia that does not recognise the limits of its sovereignty and territorial integrity to give up on hegemonic politics? Serbia that is unable to even postmortem to appreciate Zoran Djindjic how will he appreciate minorities? From Serbia who does not have the will to clarify the murder of Slavko Curuvija, how do you expect to clarify the murder of the Genesis brothers? Serbia, which considers itself a historical sacrifice, cannot be expected to seek an official apology from other peoples. Serbia's honour of Ratko Mladic expects official recognition of the Srebrenica genocide? Serbia, which protects Ljubisa Dikovic and Bozidar Delic, will not expect recognition of war crimes against civilians in Račka, Meje, Korenica and Cic. You say a progressive government is elected today, perhaps more democratic in Serbia's history. If so, then I invite Mrs. Brnabic to visit together. I didn't see her at an exhibition on war crimes committed in Kosovo that was held a hundred meters from here a few days ago. I call on Mrs. Brnabic to visit Batajnica together, where there are civilian victims you still repeat today that they are your citizens. Be different from your bosses. Here, Mrs. Brnabić, see for yourself Batajnica, Perućac, Petrovo Selo and Mines, Staro Simište and Jasenovac can serve as an inspiration, listen to the last name Berisa, Durići, Bogojevci, Jašari, Hotić, Čauši, imagine children and women and old people who were simply because they had different names and cultures monsterly murdered, secretly transported by trucks 400 km from the crime scene by organized state structures that were obliged to preserve them and their good. These war crimes have been ordered, organised and implemented by state structures, by officials of the Republic of Serbia whose prime minister is elected here today. You have a chance to prove Serbia's collective conscience, to ensure that mothers don't die until they bury their children with dignity, that children find out that their fathers, mothers, grandparents, grandparents and other loved ones have been killed, that raped women don't have to be ashamed, because there are those who think their fault is for what happened to them. You owe it first to your people. Prove your courage and responsibility, if not for the Albanians, then for the Serbia you say you love. There is no prosperity in international relations without reconciliation. No reconciliation, no peace and no future without facing the past in any society. As for Albanians living in Serbia, you proved during the previous term that you are not interested in integrating them as equal citizens. The only difference between your rule is different methods of discrimination. The Brnabic government did not take anything to implement three agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia with the elected representatives of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley. You have not unblocked the dialogue between the government and selected valley officials. You have not launched any significant legislative changes, let alone a constitutional one that improves the position and rights of minorities at all, especially Albanians. Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, including Sandzak, represent a typical example of the discriminatory region. Earlier methods of discrimination were replaced by invisible modern methods. The region is under a legitimate military-police siege, the lowest level of representation in state institutions and a reasoned lack of investment. We heard here the other day that President Vukic opened factories from Saturday to Vranja, practically to Vranja, not Bujanovac and Presevo, Tutina or Sjenica, and do not afterwards justify that in these municipalities Albanians have local authority or Bosniaks, because it is not said here that these factories are opened by the presidents of municipalities from Subotica to Vranja, but that they are opened by President Vukic. I invite President Vukic to open at least one factory in our municipalities. We can also use statistics. On this occasion, I invite you, Mrs Brnabić, to personally present to us MPs here an ethnic structure of employees at the regional hospital in Vranj, a hospital that covers both Presevo and Bujanovac, or a service for a cataster of immovableity or simpler – payment ramps in Bujanovac. For starters, that's enough. Dear MPs, minorities, especially Albanians and Bosniaks may be from your point of view, the Tatars, the Algerians, the Ujguri of today's Serbia, but they are not the only ones who are discriminated against. The situation of citizens in municipalities in southern Serbia is best depicted by your neoliberal policy that deepens not only ethnic division, but also the social inequality between the Serbia region every day. Both Goran and Slavica and Zoran and Vesna from Vranja, Surdulice, Bosilegrada, Shops are as poor as Ilir, Teuta, Jolac, Alma and Muhamed from Bujanovac, Tutina, Presevo and Sjenica. Because of this, the United Valley MP group, the SDA Sandzak, cannot support this government. We even believe that the shorter the mandate of this government and this Parliament is the greater the chance and hope of strengthening freedom, democracy and equality without you and your political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u335	Mr. Kamberi, since we have been plowing back for years, there is no prejudice over your identity, but because of what you're saying, because of the accusations without any basis for creating a false picture that there is some inequality of minorities and everything else, to tell you the truth, in Bujanovac where you are in the power of Serbs there is almost 50%, and there is no Serb in power. So much for national identity. Anything else I would only warn you as the President of the National Assembly, that there is, of course, the right for every MP to speak, to express his political views, but there is a limit that concerns insult, demeaning, destroying the dignity of the Assembly, and I ask all MPs to abide by it. According to the Rules of Procedure, they've come forward. I was the first to hear from him here, Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u336	John's, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u337	Jovanov, I'm sorry, I've seen it, it's written somewhere that there's a problem, I've never heard of such accentation. John's.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u338	It's no problem. We'll make it easy. So, multiple Rules of Procedure were injured, 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by Mr. Cambria's speech, but also by Article 106(1). - to talk about the agenda, that is, the agenda on which the search is conducted. So, I am again expressing absolute support for your way of running a session of the Assembly that is tolerant, which allows the width of each MP's exposure, but on the other hand, I'm afraid that if you don't react in the future we'll turn this Assembly into a Hyde Park where everyone who's going to turn the microphone on will talk about the first thing that comes to mind. We've been listening here. The man mentioned 33 times President Vukic, I didn't notice that President Vukic was running for Prime Minister, that he was reading any exposés here. The story of how he is threatened, the story of which, so he in the Serbian Parliament, tells that he is at risk in Serbia. So totally amazing. And from the very first day of this covenant, we have listened to one and the same narrative by a number of MPs about the divine threat, etc. The point is that there is absolutely no threat and I ask you to react every time you try to create a picture of Serbia that does not correspond to reality. Because I really don't see that the speakers themselves don't see the contradiction they're getting into, so, like those in the media who say they don't have space in the media, and now we have those who are in the Serbian Parliament talking about being threatened and discriminated in Serbia. About other qualifications, I wouldn't express myself, they're just not worth commenting on, but I just want to add one sentence and finish. So I believe that Mr. Camberi's exposure would be much better, much more interesting and much more focused in support of this government, to meet his request to be a member of the government, and we always come to the same situation. When there is a chair the government is supported, when the chair is gone, then on the government with trees and stones. Gentlemen, the chair is gone and get over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u339	I just want to ask if you're asking us to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u340	Thank you. (The Secretary-General controls the microphone, don't think I'm shutting you down. Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 107th violation of Parliament's dignity. You know what, we've really been listening here to this incredible tirade of inequality, about someone teaching us what fascism is, what antifascism is, etc. I can go in here for historical debates, but there's one historical fact, a fact. You know, none of our two movements, they were ideologically different, but they weren't part of the Prince Eugen Division. They were ballistics, whose leader is still celebrating today, and Shaban Poluža is celebrating today throughout KIM, and you know there are some who also teach us what we don't know, and they're celebrating, for example. Acifa efendija or Hadjiahmetovic's famous, so he is celebrated as the hero of Novopazars etc. I ask you to really stop this, because it makes no sense to insult the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian people who suffered most from fascism and to be taught by those whose people are mostly supported by just those who were part of the Prince Eugen Division, with all due respect. Of course we're unequal. We all pay taxes and electricity and water here, and some of us haven't done it since 1989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u341	Are you asking the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. To tell you the truth, every member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured in some way, but here I will appeal to Article 109, and I ask you to apply a member of 109 in future when we hear the words of totalitarian power, when we hear the words of the warlock of the 1990s, regardless of who it is, which minister, from which political parties we come. You know, we have no problem, as Mr. Cambery says, prejudice over his identity and because he protects the rights of Albanians. And we are here to protect the rights and protect the rights of every national minority. But we have a problem when someone in the Republic Parliament says - totalitarian regime. What does that mean? Democracy comes true in the elections. We had a democratic and fair held election of 21. Citizens have made it clear what they think about political parties, about coalitions. Political democracy means a multiparty system. There were several political parties and coalitions that participated in the elections. Winning 24 or 25 thousand votes, that's not our problem, but that's your problem. Think about it in the future. You're talking about reconciliation, reconciliation comes through dialogue, and Serbia wants dialogue all the time. Parliament wants dialogue, the government wants dialogue, the president of the state is the first to start dialogue the moment the parliamentary elections are over and invite all representatives who have their representatives in the republic's parliament to hold talks. You refused those conversations, so do you think that's how it leads to reconciliation? Please, Mr President, it is the legitimate right of MPs to express their political views, but it is not a legitimate right for MPs to insult the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask you to apply Article 109 in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u343	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? Does a candidate for Prime Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u344	Thank you. I will really try to be moderate, because it will be somehow the manner of this government, because we really want dialogue and because we really don't have any problem with the representatives of the Albanian people and with the Albanian population in southern Serbia, or anywhere else. I understand the honourable MP that you chose to deal with politics and that you are talking about political flossules here. I think much better for Albanians from Bujanovac or Presevo, from southern central Serbia, would be for us to continue here to talk about the quality of life, not political flossules. I also think that it would be much better to talk honestly about what's been done and what's done and to talk about the things and the time we live in, which is 2020, on the threshold of 2021, not the 1990s. If you want to continue living in the 1990s, of course, a free country, everyone can live in whatever time they want in this country. I think your political responsibility is because of the citizens who chose you to talk about the topic on the agenda in the Republic of Serbia, which is the quality of life for citizens, not wars, crimes and the past in the 1990s. I'm sorry to hear that you're discriminating yourself, but you're right to do that, too. No one else discriminates on you here and never will. You have no right, I think, to discriminate against all others, the Bosniaks, the Albanians and all the others you talked about in the worst possible way by putting those words and those thoughts in our mouths and in our heads. None of us talked like you did. Nobody. You have no right to discriminate against Albanians or anyone else. You can have a sense of less value than you. It's your right. We don't discriminate, we don't have any problem. You are to me a People's Messenger like any other MP here. I have respect for you as a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why do you choose to talk about Alexander Vukic like that? That's a very special question. The question, I think, that you first need to answer to the citizens of Albanian nationality in the Republic of Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic, as Prime Minister, has done more than anyone else in this country for the historic reconciliation of Serbs and Albanians. I can see how much that means to you. I see what the results mean to you, and what politics means to you. It's more important for you politically to spit out and challenge Alexander Vukic here than to tell you what that man did and keep going that way. Is that a dialogue? Is that an invitation to a historic reconciliation? Aleksandar Vukic, as Prime Minister, was the first Prime Minister who, if I am not mistaken, invited 69 or 70 years later to the official visit of the Republic of Serbia to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, Edi Rama, and that was the big deal at the time, everyone talked about it. Since then, thanks to Alexander Vukic and his political courage that you obviously don't have, because if you did, you'd be telling the truth, and you'd be talking about the results, too, but you'd be saying, first of all, the truth, thanks to him today, it's not news that we're meeting with the Prime Minister of Albania or we're having any conversations or relations with Albania or Albanians, that we want to end passports, travel to passports, that we want to open room for co-operation, exchange of people, goods, services, capital. It's not news, because he's working on it and, despite all the criticism, he's not thinking about how politically popular he is, but what's good for Serbia, he's been doing on these things. Yeah, I'm proud to be on his team. In the team, a team of men who first called for the historic reconciliation of Serbs and Albanians, who spoke about the lack of a prosperous region without Serbs and Albanians and reconciliation and co-operation between Serbs and Albanians. You're talking about this man today the way you talk. This is the biggest indicator that you are only interested in politics, not the quality of life for Albanians in southern Serbia, Albanians in the AP Kosovo and Metohija or anywhere else in this region. It is a man who has launched an internal dialogue about, also, the historic compromise between Serbs and Albanians on the Kosovo and Metohija issue, why many here, as radical as you radical, have accused him of treason. If you cared about the quality of life, the quality of peace, stability, security, and then, therefore, economic prosperity would say that, you wouldn't be trying to collect cheap political points here. What you're talking about doesn't trust you anymore, not even the Albanian people. Let me ask you -- what exactly did you do for Albanians in Bujanovac or Presevo or anywhere in southern central Serbia? You've been in politics for decades. For decades. It's probably longer than all of us here together. What have you done besides constantly and constantly complaining that something can't and that something isn't or that it's one way or the other? What did you do besides provide yourself with a future in that, such a state, a political future that you say is always being discriminated against? If there was nothing you could do, why didn't you resign and let someone else do something? We have the same relationship with Bujanovac and Presevo as with any other local government in the Republic of Serbia. Yeah, we can't bring foreign direct investment into every corner of the country, every local self-government, but that's why you're here to support the local economy, local entrepreneurs, to tell us what we can do together, not to sit down and because you don't have the results to turn on us that we've done something or we haven't done enough for that Bujanovac or Presevo. When you talk about the victims, then I guess it's okay to talk about both Serbian and Albanian victims. I, Mr. People's Parliament, am talking about both Serbian and Albanian victims and all the other victims, and this is the way to dialogue and reconciliation that we all need so much. That's what I talked about when I represented the new government program. You, first of all, should support this Alexander Vukic for all he's done for his historic reconciliation, but you care so much about it. When you talk about the victims, talk about all the victims. When you talk about the monstrosity of crime, talk about the "yellow house". Such a monstrous crime has not been seen, not in the 20th century, that people are being kidnapped, that their organs are being taken to earn money. Talk about all the victims. I respect all the victims, and I'm always in favour of dialogue, but I'm for dialogue by people who really want to sit on the other side and have a dialogue and see what we can do for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not according to whether it's an Albanian or a Croat or a Serbian and a Serbian, Hungarian or anything else. Our problem is that you do not want to have a dialogue, but you want to continue from decade to decade to decade to deal with political flossules, politics, and not with what is important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u345	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. Shaip Cambery answered, but I don't know on what basis. (Shaip Kamberi: Replica. You're right, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u346	Thank you. If this is an attempt to cover up and this little opposition, it's ugly for democracy. Mr. President, I remind you of attitude 37. The Law on the National Assembly, that the MP should be defined, entered and voted by his own confidence. I remind you of Article 106(3). The Rules of Procedure of this Assembly, which speaks of the need to ensure the freedom of speech of every speaker. If you want to deal with it specifically, Madam President, I count on you to be Prime Minister again, I will mention as far as the Presevo Valley is concerned, the three agreements Albanians have with the Republic of Serbia. The first programme was the 2001 republican and federal government, which envisioned measures to address the crisis in the region. The most important measure in the region is the integration of Albanians into state institutions. Give us you, I won't, give us a table view here to show how many Albanians are integrated. The second agreement comes from March, with the government again, the Republic of Serbia, with the presence and guarantee of ambassadors then head of the OSCE mission, Hans Ole Urstad, which is talking about re-affirming the 2001 plan. The third agreement, I must mention again Mr Dacic, because, while he was Prime Minister, he concluded a report from a meeting between representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia's co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje and representatives of the political parties of Albanians from the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities, which is an integral part of this conclusion, to meet all the requirements set out in the public-known seven-point plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u347	Thank you, Mr. Cambery. You're out of time. According to the Rules of Procedure, Djordje Milicevic called to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u348	I agree that time is up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u349	On the injury of which member are you insinuating?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u350	I point to Rule 27's breach, we can also do Article 106. Article 27. I'll tell you for what reason. Article 106, I'll also try to explain in a few sentences. I don't think we should continue to go in this direction, and I fully agree with the prime minister, Mrs. Brnabic, because it is a clear goal which is intended to achieve this kind of discussion and this kind of debate. We haven't heard a word about the exposé, we haven't heard a word about the goals that want to be realized in the next period of time, we haven't heard a word about potential candidates for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, except for one wish, that this government lasts as short as possible. Well, you, Mr. Cambery, will not determine how long the Government of the Republic of Serbia will last, unfortunately for you. It is clear to us that the goal that you want to achieve is that, through this kind of debate, you will be present in public, to try to reach cheap political points, through exactly the kind of vocabulary that you tried to carry out during a recent discussion. For this reason, please, Mr. Chairman, that we still adhere to Article 106, which is that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted, because in this way the accent would be placed on what cannot be and should not be the aim of today's session. The aim of today's session is far more important for both parliament and Serbia and every citizen of Serbia, because we are talking about Serbia's future today. Thank you. I'm not asking the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u351	Thank you. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? If there isn't, we'll move on. As I said, the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups by number. Next up is Dragan Markovac Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u352	Dear President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for the future government, JS has not asked for ministerial functions, as we haven't asked since 2008, since we were in the coalition with the SPS. Several times he offered us Boris Tadic, former Serbian President and Aleksandar Vukic, to be minister. I refused, because I believe and wanted to show that Serbia can be done without having a chair, privileges, and that what you do is visible and useful for the Republic of Serbia. A unique Serbia will vote for a new government. And what is the criterion and the facts that give us the right and the obligation? Because the people sent us here to vote for the new government. I've been a businessman for many years, and it's never happened to keep dinars stable for over eight years. This means that credit users can take the credit freely, that production factories, and they have a credit rating, can take the credit, that the loan payments don't increase, but it's as big as seven, five, six years ago. That's one of the main reasons why we're voting for this new government. I also have to realize that we are one of the best countries on the crown, that on the basis of the inflow into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the government has given the largest aid to the economic operator, three times 30,000, two times... Where are you going, Sinisha? A lot of important things, because you couldn't learn what I was supposed to say to you right now. Give him a stenogram later, Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u353	There's the prime minister, she's the most important one to write it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u354	Okay, but he's the finance minister, working with the money. It's said to me that when someone's working with money, they always make money, so there's a surplus, so let me tell him where that surplus can be rerouted, but it doesn't matter. What else is most important? So, during the Coronation, the state helped the citizens. Corona returned again and now with a much larger number than it was in early January, February, March of the month. I'm going to speak my mind now. I'm sure the state is no longer able to give such financial assistance to economic operators, and on the other hand, we have to work and we have to wear a crown. First of all, parliament must not stop working and we should be a picture of a business subject, citizens, that we are not afraid of the crown. If we have political immunity, that we're not looking for some health immunity right now and we're talking over little screens, we're doing this right now, we're sitting next to each other, and we're being watched by citizens who work in factories, that we're in the workplace. It's very important, ladies and gentlemen, how schools work for us. Children are sacred and everything we do for children, grandchildren, etc. I don't understand how kids go to kindergarten, go to elementary school, take 30 minutes, and kids go to high school for 15 days, and 15 days don't go. It is much harder to explain to those younger children that they wear masks than to those over 16 years of age, or 15 to 18 years of age. On-line, it's nothing, people. School from home? First, the kids play on cell phones and listen to what he's saying and so on. So that's my opinion and opinion of JS. If the parents, I was saying that the other day in the Assembly, but you weren't the ministers here, if the parents said the kids were going to school, that's what they were allowed to do. We have to live with the crown. Who knows how long this is gonna take. Let's have one of the experts at the Crisis Headquarters tell me how it's transmitted? How? I had a crown, the life of Starcevic, behind my back, had a crown, my wife had, my older son. We don't know how we got infected. I didn't have much of a celebration, they didn't even have members of my family. So we don't know how we got infected. Well, please keep those messages focused, that we have to wear the crown, live with the crown and work, because if the next 2021 happens every day for an hour and a half on television, we listen to them scare us, people, 30% of the citizens will have a mental problem. I tell you that as a man who lives in the country, a man who has contact with people every day. So the state passed when it comes to the crown and when it's hard. She also passed when there were floods. It's something that happened all of a sudden. The greatest results, as a non-EU country in the Balkans, and also from a number of EU countries, in all institutions where they rank and build, I don't know now what your annual contribution to this is, according to how your social product grows, etc., that we are the best. Be careful, the best, and when you start from scratch, it's very difficult. You didn't inherit anything. There is one problem, the Minister of Ecology has certainly inherited a job description of what he will do in the next period of time, and I missed it to propose an amendment when there was a vote on ministries, although this was not on the agenda, the Minister of Ecology must also deal with the political deposit. You know, there's some opposition that needs to go to a political dump and we don't deal with them very much. He pissed me off and pissed off Wolfie when he reduced 3% of the censorship, he did it for them. Then he allowed the signatures not to be collected at the notaries, but the opposition, who complained all about how nothing was wrong with them, to be able to go to the matrimonials in the municipality and collect the signatures. Well, what more do you want? What they're saying, a few of them, two, three, are famous in the world, but not for the political outcome, but for the economic progress of their company, and they abuse it indirectly. And the Serbs, look out, there are 35 chapters, we've opened 18 chapters, and we've closed two, temporarily. Well, wait, everything they asked us to do, and we've passed international laws, although we don't have a standard like Switzerland, Germany, Austria, etc. Obligations to The Hague tribunal have been fulfilled. And what more do you want from us? When are we going to join the European Union? I would also like to congratulate Aleksandra Vukic and Ivica Dacic in particular. The United Nations General Assembly has 193 countries. Today, thanks to 18 states that have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, there are 96 countries that do not recognise independent Kosovo. And we can't say -- bad international policy, I don't know, run by Vukic and Dacic as minister because, behold, they're still asking us to recognise independent Kosovo. Do you guys know how hard it is to tell God to a father named President Donald Trump - take off my 10th act, I won't admit to an independent Kosovo? In 2016, I was the only Serbian politician at the inauguration of Donald Trump and I was a speaker at several gatherings, ballrooms in America, even a speaker where 400 mayors of large American cities were and I was one of four speakers. I had a meeting with a former CIA chief named Steven Meyer. What are you guys laughing at? I forgot his name. He's not that important to me. But I'm telling you, I'm someone who understands American relations when it comes to Serbs. It is also very important for us to win Donald Trump, because the global policy towards Serbia does not change by personal change, but Donald Trump did not start any war during his term and gave Serbia the hand to co-operate with Serbia to open the Office for Economic Development, but I do not know what it is called, and it is necessary for Serbian citizens to appreciate and respect it. And the opposition must support it, to take off his hat and say – bravo masters, not for anything that is done positively to say – that is bad. Be careful, during this time period, that you have good co-operation with America and China and Russia, where America and China are fighting who will be an economic leader for four or five years in the world, whether China or America, on the one hand, in Europe is being beaten by McCron and Merkel, who will be the future leader of the European Union, you are in this society and you are swimming. It's not that easy, with the label they glued to Serbia, and you know that the label is a lie, a fraud, a lie, etc. Unfortunately for us, no agreement is respected, no member is signed, Serbia has respected everything, but also, Albanians, they only go as natural persons there, it is known who draws up the agreement, it is known who tells them – now accept, do not accept. In such a consolidation, Vucicic, who has recently led international politics, of course, along with Dacic, has very high results. This gentleman who was just telling a story about the rights of Albanians being threatened. Where do you live, my friend? So every third day your Albanians beat up some Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. Seven days ago, they shot at Serbian children. So tell them, send them a message, and say, "I am from Trnovac, the largest drug dealer in the world." Nobody's touching you. Now you're sending a message, thinking about it nine, ten years ago, so those who listen say -- well, look, these Albanians are at risk. A long time ago, because those who then decided on the fate of Serbian citizens have retired and are now seen by those who have a business in Kosovo and Metohija, who receive statues and monuments in Kosovo and Metohija, what is Judge Mer and where he is now, whom he advises and the time has come to be true and that what is called the law is slowly applied, but is applied by the policy led by this country and the policy that results. You know, for one country to be strong, five institutions are very important and important. It is an army, which has strengthened strongly, and not only has it strengthened in the tools, but in economic terms, the increased wages, the apartments of those in the military, the police are much more efficient now than in earlier years, much faster to reveal the serious crimes than in earlier years, the education that has progressed, the judiciary that has been more effective than in health. It's five institutions that are very important for the development of a single state. Health care, I may say, did not beat the crown, but it dealt with the crown and forwards with the vision of what would happen, that we had enough room in hospitals and that they were both making new hospitals and new clinical centres. So, ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the result of what this government has done... But for example, here, Lajcak was the other day and he says, "The Constitution is not the Bible, and this is a man from Slovakia, and Slovakia has not recognised independent Kosovo." Then what will you expect from those states that have recognised an independent Kosovo? So four countries have not recognised Kosovo: Greece, Spain, Slovakia and Romania, and these are also NATO members of the pact. The NATO Pact makes up 30 states and other states will never withdraw recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, because they accept responsibility for why they bombed Serbia. 3 So, ladies and gentlemen, it has been very difficult to lead Serbia in recent years and not only has it been difficult to lead Serbia, but there is also a very high result that no one can dispute. What else is important for the new government, especially for the minister of agriculture who had good results? You see, it can't be explained to farmers, I live in the country, I have both geese and turkeys and chicken costumes, so you know, ministers, I've worked out a lot of land, I've got corn, deteline and hazelnut, etc., nobody can explain to them what the factor is when one week the price of living cattle on the market is 300 dinars, and the lambs of 350 dinars, and in ten days, the pig's 200 dinars, and the lambs of 230 dinars. There's no price in the slaughterhouses. So the slaughterhouses five times have a higher profit, an input called concentrate, and something else is at the same price as the higher price at the live scale market. And a farmer when he has such a blow once a year, he can't recover. You were there, the other day I was saying, you have to tell the farmers what to produce next year. Why do we import frozen meat from some countries where his soul is frozen, and you have someone slaughtering trout, you know what a shepherd is, a freighter up to 150 kilos, someone slaughters secreted pigs, but it doesn't matter, and now it tastes delicious for three or four days, and when you put it in a freezer, after ten days it's nothing. We, as a country of farmers, producers, import meat. We can't stop imports, but we can increase production, because imports happen because production is reduced. In this way, there are now holdings, so taxpayers up to eight million dinars are not paid VAT. Isn't that right, Minister? So, who has 20 acres of land, guards, or pig, pig, pig, pig, if I didn't list everything, he'd already become a taxpayer. The state is the biggest loser and slowly shuts down our village because there is no security when it comes to production. What else is important? Serbia has made many highways, and because many highways have been made, I do not want to praise the former ministers individually, both current and future, that someone does not mind me, but there is an increased transit through Serbia, so more money remains in Serbia, so whoever travels from Germany to Turkey does not go to Hungary anymore, but goes to Serbia, so someone will stay overnight in Serbia, so something to buy, etc. What's more important is that it's an expense to invest in what brings money and protects health, because health has no price and now you ask anyone in Serbia who has any understanding of joy and life, he'll say - I didn't expect it to be such a standard of life, etc. For me, it is an indication that the number of socially endangered families is reduced, so what we get, new jobs, the arrival of foreign investors, this very international relationship with states they say -- we will never withdraw recognition of independent Kosovo and Metohija. Do they agree with their businesses to dislocate their factories or to keep part of the production plant in Serbia, for example, Germany employs 60,000 workers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u355	Mr. Markovic, it's been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u356	I'm not out. I'm using the time of the Parliament Club. I'm right. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u357	You can't right now, you have to do it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u358	I can't right now. I can't right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u359	You can't do it right now. You can do it when the debate starts.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u360	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u361	I'm really sorry, but I have to apply strictly to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u362	So you cut me right up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u363	Thank you very much. I'm shutting down your microphone. The word has been given by the MP, Mr Branimir Jovanovic, head of the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u364	The Honorable Chairman, respected candidates for the president, vice-presidents and members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, implies that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of electing a new government, simply because the programme of the government that we heard earlier in the exhibition is based on the principles with which our coalition and took place in the previous elections and why we have received citizens' trust. We need to put these ideas into practice now. There's a good basis for these ideas to be realized, and there's a good basis for doing well in the previous period. I have to look back at the previous period, the period since I was a national MP and when the first candidate for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic was, and later Anna Brnabic, who was again a candidate for the prime minister when they presented their exposés, was an exposé where the goals were concrete, where the goals were realistic, where certain deadlines were set until they were due, and when we well planned those goals, then it is normal that the result was excellent. We, as a society, occasionally face major challenges, and we must, together with much work, perseverance and responsibility, be in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and we can only achieve this together with unity, solidarity and respect for the political differences that inevitably exist. That's the only way we're going to keep our citizens' enthusiasm and faith in a safe future. Our plans should be based on a strong and healthy idea. This idea involves strengthening the middle layer of the population, a more favourable demographic picture, stable finance, quality education and a constant improvement of science and technology. Serbia is now a stable state and this government should only continue on a once-tagged path to work primarily to increase citizens' living standards and better positioning Serbia in the field of international policy. The citizens' greatest expectations are, above all, on the economic plan and for us, the future government in co-operation with us, to continue economic reforms. That's also logical, because citizens want to live better, to have better jobs, to have greater purchasing power. Much has been done in the previous period, first of all, last year we came to a single-digit unemployment level in Serbia. This will, of course, increase the competitiveness of the labour market. This is very important to us from the SDPS because employees will find themselves in a better position when they talk to the employer, especially when they talk about improving working conditions and increasing earnings. It is precisely that trend in wage increases that is one of the goals of the future government. Of course, we do not expect the government to be able to affect the salary increase directly in the private sector, but it is there to create the best conditions on the market that the private sector works impeccably and thus that employees have better working conditions, that they have a higher salary. When we talk about an increase in salary, the fact is that it increases from year to year. The candidate just recently cited the amount of the increase in the exposure. What makes us happy is a meeting that was agreed on a month and a half ago, the Social-Economic Council to increase the minimum labour price by 6.6%. In this way, the government has shown responsibility that it has managed to escalate, that employees have bigger profits, that they meet the businessmen, that they can survive in these turbulent circumstances and that the economy continues to function normally. That's why we're very glad that the government is finding the right solutions and establishing one of these balances. It is very important that future members of the government in their work have an open and fair attitude towards the citizens, of course, and towards us here in the Assembly. Yeah, when we make promises to be real promises without populism. The finance minister who has performed this post so far and is running for the same post, recently spoke of an increase in public sector wages. It's very good that he hasn't made a concrete percentage of how much that increase is going to be yet, but we're waiting to see how this increase is going to be based on the real state. So, we're increasing wages based on real estimates from real income. We can already say that we have stabilised the country's financial system. Public finances are stable and this is one of the most difficult areas to control, but it is an area and where it is most important to control financial flows. I hope that the future minister and members of the government will continue to take successful measures to reduce the rate of gray economy above all, to make it a better tax charge and to continue to work transparently. For us from the SDPS and everything from our coalition, it's very important that we know where every dinar from the budget goes. Citizens have the right to know the money flows from the moment the money is taxed or paid into the budget, to the moment when it is paid to the end-user. Also when we talk about finance, I have to mention that it is important that pensions increase next year, an increase of 5.9% was announced, and we adopted a new form at the end of last year, a new formula on the basis of which pensions are calculated, or pension increases. So 50% based on the increase in earnings in the previous year, and 50% based on the increase in consumer prices. I think that this formula will be pensioners and how pleased it will be in the next period and that it will bring improvement in this area, as are the increase announced for next year and as I can be pleased that there has never been a delay in the dynamics of payment. Serbia takes first place in the region when we talk about foreign investment and more than half of the investments that come into the region are coming right into our country. To continue this trend, we need to always question what it is, what are the motives that drive investors to stimulate investment in Serbia, I think on the side, and domestic investors. Whether it's a good traffic infrastructure, whether it's a quality workforce, an orderly system, an incentive for the state. I'd say it's all equally important, but the prerequisite for all of this is what we have now. It's a stable legal-political framework. Serious companies don't want a risk, they don't want an unstable area. Serious companies want to invest where the risk is low and are interested in long-term earnings that will be higher over the long term, but stable. It is therefore important that we continue to build stable institutions, improve legal standards and build a legal system in which economic contracts will be respected, i.e. a legal system in which the judiciary is effective. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia are in favour, and we will always repeat that we must be a society of equal opportunities, a society where people will advance on the basis of their work, based on their skills, based on their knowledge. A society where young people will always have a chance to realize their ideas and that is why we support the government's measures so far that have been directed at this area and that will be directed in the future. I'm only going to name one, maybe one insignificant measure, but for young people and how significant. Soon the project, titled "My First Salary", began to be implemented, and the project will take place in the future. It may not be so important to someone, but the fact that when young people graduate from college they wait 23 months for work and how important it is for them to start working as soon as possible, to get a job experience, to prove themselves to a future employer, to justify trust, because it is safe for employers to choose first those candidates who have practical experience, and we give them this opportunity to experience and gain such experience. That's why projects like this should always be supported no matter how far out the budget is. We only provided this project to make young people experience about 10,000 young people two billion dinars from the budget. I also look forward to the announcement that I have heard in the media that the government will work to provide apartments for young people, especially married couples and young scientists. We have a similar experience and a project is being implemented to build apartments for members of the security forces and a military disabled. We have experience in this, and this project is going as planned and well realized. Also, projects in the area of agriculture that involve incentives for young people are already being implemented. These and similar measures should always be supported because it will stop young people from leaving, as we say in the jargon – brain drain. Unfortunately, this process of going young, educated people abroad is something that doesn't last since yesterday. It's a process that lasts for decades. We as a society have lost a lot in every segment of society, and perhaps most in the economic field, and if we did a calculation and saw how much it was invested in young people's education, how positive would it have been if they had stayed in our country, how much would we have improved the economy, we are coming to the conclusion that the country lost billions of euros over the past decades. These people go to foreign countries and contribute to their economy, develop their economy, and in doing so, we trained them here in Serbia on the cost of our taxpayers. This emigration problem is not only characteristic of Serbia, it is characteristic and even more pronounced in the countries of the region, which are both EU members and where workers have better access to the EU market, but of course we will focus on us, our problem. The other day we adopted the Law on Ministries where a new Ministry of Family and Demography was established, and there were high expectations from this ministry and all representatives of parliamentary groups, or political parties working in parliament, supported one such proposal. In front of the future minister, there is one big challenge, one difficult task, because if we just look at that demographic image, we will see that the unfavourable ratio of mortality and birth and that every year a city of the size of Vienna disappears in Serbia, about 36,000 people. Of course, what is important is that young people stay in Serbia is that we continue economic reforms. Young people want to be promoted, to have a job according to their knowledge, in accordance with their education, young people want as much permanent employment as possible so they can solve, say, a housing issue. If we keep this up, and I think we're on the right track, and if we keep building kindergartens, that every child can be enrolled in a state kindergarten, that we can provide a sufficient number of educators, maybe at some point there won't be any need to have monetary incentives to encourage birth. So, young people in Serbia want security, they want certainty that they can plan the future of a peaceful head, and that certainty and that security implies security in society. That is why we must all support the announced fight against crime and the fight against corruption. It must be one of the priorities of the new government. Who can be against this? They can be the only ones involved in the crime scene. They can be criminals. That is why I am sure we will provide a broad support for citizens to resolve this issue. I hope that when we finish this process, we will find ourselves in the ranks of those countries in Europe with a low rate of crime and corruption. This process must cover all social areas. From curbing the gray economy, stealing, racketeering, to suppressing hooliganism from the stands, no one gets hurt without going to a football game or basketball game just because someone doesn't like the color of the joke he's wearing, we won't tolerate it in the future. A huge job awaits the future government in the field of foreign policy, especially when we talk about talks with Pristina, problems in Kosovo and Metohija. We believe that these talks must be concrete, that they must be essential, that they should be resolved step by step. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia made a proposal a few years ago and refers to the resolution of the Kosovo knot. Our president, Rasim Ljajic, presented the proposal to the public and we believe that this problem should be addressed in phases. The initial stages should include resolving economic issues, and when we resolve these issues, when they are satisfied with co-operation and businessmen in Belgrade, and in Leposavic, but also in Pristina, then we will create a better environment for talks with Pristina. We will create better conditions that will be relaxed to solve further problems, such as the Community of Serb municipalities, such as cultural heritage. In all this, we must not forget that we also need international support. This problem, or question, depends largely on the interest of the great forces to participate in it. It is necessary for Albanians to understand that circumstances have changed on the international scene, they are no longer the same as 20 years ago. First of all, it takes the courage of politicians on the one hand and on the other, to solve specific problems, to sometimes go over national mythology, and to turn to everyday life, to look more into the future, and to look less into the past. Also, on the agenda of foreign policy, and this is the responsibility of the European Integration Ministry. We expect intensive negotiations with the EU as a permanent commitment by Serbia to go towards this path, to adopt EU standards and regulations, because it is the only way we can improve the functioning of our institutions and only so can we improve the standard of living. It's a process that includes changing our habits, our values, our beliefs, and I'm sure we'll succeed and it's a process that takes some time. Although I didn't talk at the beginning about education, education is at the top of the pyramid of priorities for the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. We will continue to insist on the idea that, in addition to primary education, secondary education will be mandatory. It is an improvement in education in Serbia, and we are satisfied. The candidate recently stated that digitisation has been done in all primary and secondary schools in Serbia, that 10,000 online classrooms, i.e. digital classrooms, and we continue with the trend of investment, because education is the most powerful weapon to change our society and certainly the most significant and profitable investment of every country. The future minister of education will have his hands full with regard to the emerging pandemic situation due to the virus's corona. A changed way of teaching, but it will certainly be a difficult task and it will take a lot of work and good organization to preserve on the one hand the health of students and teachers, and on the other hand not to decline the quality of education, or that we must not allow this kind of work to leave one gap in the education of young people. Our state leadership, when I'm talking about the pandemic of the virus, has been making great moves from the very beginning, and above all, I'm thinking about economic measures. 5.8 billion dinars were allocated from the republican budget to help businesses and citizens. These were, I could say, comprehensive measures and short-term measures, which are also logical for the economy and the effect has been achieved not to get workers fired and the economy continues to function normally. It will be difficult, but I'm sure the new minister will succeed, too, in preserving tourism as a serious business branch. I will note that 56% has increased the number of tourists in Serbia over the past five years. Honorable candidates for the Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents and Ministers, I hope that we will all work together to overcome all the challenges ahead of us, to preserve the health system, to continue to build better conditions for life and to have one Serbia that we will leave in development, in progress, prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u365	Thank you. The next word is Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u366	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, future members of the government, Mrs. Brnabic, today we choose your second government. This government is a government of continuity and a concentration government, which should contribute to the stabilisation of social opportunities and to the fact that we can face those challenges ahead of us, and these challenges are health, economic and security. Moreover, it is difficult to separate economic, health and security challenges from each other, as it all comes down to security and security, and security and security are the greatest values of the 21st century. The development of the economy is not possible without guaranteeing human health, and yet, on the other hand, healthy people are productive and this is a necessary prerequisite for strengthening the economy, and yet, on the other hand, there is no economy without security. That security also involves legal certainty. This security implies the existential security of all citizens and that security includes the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure the government will do everything in the interest of all citizens feeling safe in their villages, in their cities, in their local self-government. When we talk about security and security, then I want to mention one topic and immediately say it at the beginning of my address, and it concerns Mrs. Brnabic, the migrant crisis and those challenges faced not only by the Government of the Republic of Serbia but by all governments in the environment, and I think I could say all governments on the ground of Europe. We discussed this and in the last term discussed, discussed, conducted dialogue and, therefore, your first government also farted, together with the President of the Republic, certain measures and those measures led to citizens feeling safer in their inhabited places. I want to tell you from this place, since the National Assembly is a representative body and I represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as all other MPs do, to ask that your government do everything in the interest of the citizens feeling safe and at this point, unfortunately, it is not so in all the inhabited places. The Union of Duke Hungarians does not belong to a group of populist parties, and we do not want to run a policy that is exclusive, nor do we want to panic over certain situations, nor do we want to be part of some protests and self-organization of citizens, but on the other hand, it is our job to, together with you and everyone with us who wants good Serbia, to solve this problem in a way that can be solved. The previous period proved that there was a solution. The solution is in the greater presence of the police on the ground. The solution is to guard the borders, primarily the southern border of the Republic of Serbia, to control who enters, where they go, and what they do. Over the past months and years there have been meetings where certain representatives of certain national minorities protested that the armed forces were sent to an area where certain national minorities live. I'll say something else. Mrs. Brnabic, I ask you to, and I would also like to say to Mr. Stefanovic, who will be Minister of Defence and Mr. Vulin, who will be Minister of the Interior, send, please, to those areas of local self-government where there is a larger population of migrants, send the police, send the gendarmes. If necessary, send an army. We have seen this happen in the previous months in Sombor, Shid and some other local self-governments, and I want to tell you that the Hungarian national community doesn't mind if the police are present, if the gendarme is present, if the Serbian Army is present. On the contrary, we would like the presence of our armed forces to be greater in order to make the citizens feel safer. You can read the news every day about what's going on and I'll talk in the administrative districts. I'm not talking about some local self-governments and settlements. So, it hit the entire North-Baba administrative district, the North-Banatical administrative district and the Western-Baba administrative district. Of course, other areas of the Republic of Serbia, but I am now talking about those districts, local self-governments, populated places most affected by the presence of illegal migrants that are not, unfortunately, in reception centres, but are freely walking on the street and in certain inhabited areas practically terrorising the local population, which is simply not normal, because the state needs to protect, the government needs to protect its citizens. In that I hope we will have a more determined position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Union of Duke Hungarians will be a partner to the new government as it has supported both your first government and two governments of Alexander Vukic since 2014 and we have always sought to deal with not only those topics, not only those problems that affect the duchy Hungarians but we have been partners in solving all those problems and all those challenges that were present, e.g. in those ministries where we had state secretaries. We want to be part of the ruling majority in line with the level of legitimacy we won in the June 21st elections to continue to solve these problems. About education, education, infrastructure and other areas. I think it is very important that since 2014 we have always had a coalition agreement signed and every citizen has always been able to see and monitor what our common goals are, what we partners are in and how we realize these common aspirations. That's what we want to keep it going. We are extremely pleased that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue will be formed. I would like to say to Mrs. Comic, she is here for the first time in parliament and that she cannot respond because she is not a national MP but will be a member of the government, I want to wish you successful work and to say that we will be partners and that we will help you in everything that you are going to ask us for support, because we would like you to be a successful minister in the future government. First of all, we are interested in achieving those solutions that have become part of our legal system in previous councils, and above all in the proper presence, the proportion of members of national minorities in the state administration. Many laws have been amended, many mechanisms have been left behind. Now all this needs to be implemented. First of all, we need to investigate the real state of affairs so that we do not speak flatly, not the government, nor us MPs, representatives of certain national minorities, in our case of the Hungarian national community, and in addition to that, to go into the implementation and implementation of all this. I know that you will not be dealing exclusively with minority rights, but you will be doing a lot of social dialogue, no matter what it means, but I can see that citizens' associations will be in your ministry and I assume that this political dialogue is also thinking, but since we've known each other for a very long time and since we worked together here in the National Assembly, I know that you have a great sensitivity to solving the problems of national minorities. That's why we think your choice is the right solution. As far as education is concerned, I would like to offer Mr. Ruzic, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Education, as well as our partnership that worked while he was at the head of another ministry. Too many words should not be spent on how many challenges you will face in the next period due to the pandemic in the field of education. It is very important that in the previous period we managed to preserve minority education, which is what standards are built in the sense that departments are being opened and with five students in departments in one of the languages of the national minority and we expect it to continue to be so. I hope that you will have direct support from the Ministry in the form of the State Secretary, or State Secretary, who will be delegated by the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. What remains as a problem and is not related to the Ministry of Education, but to several ministries, that is, the possibility, at the moment the inability to pass a state-level expert exam, license exams and a special expert exam in the native language, and we think that this issue should be resolved because it is unnatural for these exams to be passed, that these exams are not taken in the language in which basic and secondary education is acquired. Some rules will have to be changed, or it is our suggestion that these rules be changed and that this problem be resolved. As for infrastructure, the new future minister, Tomislav Momirovic, I also want successful work. Our client is extremely interested in making you successful. We tried to make a contribution to this in the previous period to make Zorana Mihajlovic successful, and I would like to thank her for her co-operation in previous mandates. I think we've done great things together, and I could mention a lot of projects, but I'd like to mention a tour of Saturday, so-called. The Ipsylon Krak, which ended after more than 30 years, spent 30m euros in total. I think it's one project that's not only of local importance and it's not only important for the local population, it's at least a project of regional importance. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, it is always put into the first plan of the Belgrade-Budapest railway and it is certainly significant, but we have some common results regarding the Subotica-Segedin-Baja railway line, for example, which should be soon, not soon, but in some foreseeable time to end. Much has been done to build local and regional travel infrastructures, and I would like to thank you once again for what we have achieved together, but there is much more to be done. That is why we expect a partnership from the future minister who will deal with these issues. It is very good that the future Prime Minister mentioned the programme "Serbia 20/25". I think it's modern, useful, comprehensive talk about digitization and some modern processes. I know that's what the future Prime Minister likes, and I think it's very important, but we still live in a country where in many local self-governments in the 21st century, the degree of construction of a water and sewerage network is not at the level that citizens would deserve. I'll only mention the example of Subotic. I can also be self-critical because the party I belong to has been giving leaders in this local self-government for a long time, and we have a situation at the end of 2020 that two or three kilometers from the City House has no sewerage network, that parts of the sewers that were built in the 1950s are not a mistake, and a few kilometers from the City House have no water network. That is why I think it is extremely important that the government of the Republic of Serbia helps local self-government, to support, to an even greater extent than it did in previous years, projects of local self-government, here I think of all local self-government in Serbia, so that the degree of construction of these basic infrastructure things would be at the level, at least half of the 20th century, when it is not already at the level of the 21st century. And everything the future Prime Minister spoke of should go with it. It is very important in these conditions and domestic tourism. Here, first of all, I mean Palic, I mean banish tourism, I mean so-called. self-healing Palic Lake. I hope that we will also be partners in this and that the city of Subotica will enjoy the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the completion of, as the President, the future Prime Minister also mentioned, the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica. It is the largest investment on the soil of the entire Republic of Serbia in the area of culture, if I know it well. It has been too long since the start of the construction and reconstruction of the National Theatre and please, Mrs. Brnabic, to bring to an end the construction of the facility, which again is not only of local importance, but also of regional importance. Finally, I would like to mention another question that will still be said, which is a question of the contribution of agricultural producers. We worked on this, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia has worked on this for a very long time and in the previous period, and I hope that we will be able to find a solution that will ensure the inflow of funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and yet, on the other hand, a fair, just system, whereby agricultural producers will pay contributions according to the size of the property and in line with the revenue achieved. I know it's an inter-resorial issue and I want to tell Mr. Nedimovic that we've checked everything in the previous coalition agreement, except for this topic. I hope we can work this out, too, but I'm saying, this is an inter-resor question. Finally, to conclude, that Mr Dacic would not interrupt me, which is his obligation under the Rules of Procedure after 20 minutes, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will give support to the government, the second Government of Ana Brnabic and we will seek to contribute to the successful work of the government, because it is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u367	I was just about to interrupt, but you're a very responsible MP, longtime, right in the frames, ten seconds over, but that's bearable. Let's move on. The word has Gjorge Milicevic, as head of the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u368	I thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen, I hope from tonight, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, I am convinced, from tonight on, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I want to say first is that great things have been done in the previous period of time and that serious results have been achieved, that these results are visible, recognizable and that citizens have recognized them in the right way. I am saying this as a representative of the parliamentary group and the political option that was part of the ruling coalition today and in the previous period of time, therefore, shared values and responsibilities in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I want to point out that we are proud of these results. When we talk about results, of course I mean the international reputation of Serbia, which today is significantly strengthened and strengthened, of course I think about everything that has been done when it comes to national, state, economic issues. So, we are proud of these results, and we believe that this is how one good way to continue the work of the future government of the Republic of Serbia is routed. Also, a few days ago here in the Republic Parliament, we passed the Ministry Act, in fact, amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, and I think that by adopting this law, we have created one foundation that will allow the system, in fact, the government, in a period ahead of us to function and achieve even better results. I think we've made a step forward in this respect and we're creating something, in fact, what we're up for, and that's to make an optimal model, to have one systemic approach, and not to always change the Ministry Act when the new government comes. I think it is the law most changed in the history of all the laws in Serbia, therefore, that it does not depend on the current political moment, that it does not depend on coalitions, on any compromises and solutions reached among coalition partners, but on presenting ourselves as a responsible and serious state which does not change its policy and does not create from today to tomorrow. Today, Serbia faces a period of great temptations and great challenges, and not only in front of Serbia, the whole world faces great temptations and great challenges, precisely, because of Corona and the fight against the virus. The economic environment has changed. There's been a change in the way of life. And this isn't a chance right now, this debate is not a chance for monologues. This debate is not a chance for political populism, political demagogy, to come up with political points, but an opportunity to contribute together to the key issues that you have defined through the exposés, which we have just had the opportunity to listen to. This, ladies and gentlemen, is one, I would say, a new time in Serbia. It's no longer a referendum question, to plead for and against. We don't have time for that here. It takes a change in the culture of work, but it takes change and a culture of life, in the sense that we all contribute to the realisation of the common objective, and the common goal is defined in the exposure that you have exposed. On every plan, no matter how difficult the subject is, we don't have the right, all together, and 250 of us as Prime Minister and future ministers, to stick our heads in the sand. The worst thing that can happen to one society is that it loses its ability to recognize priorities or lose its sense of the system of true values. That, fortunately for us, didn't happen to our society. Serbia's citizens rightly said in the 21st parliamentary elections, the province and local elections, they recognized the right values, and in such a way, in democratic and fair elections, they said what Serbia really wants and what it wants and what it is that we all have to do together. That's why today is completely pointless when someone, anyone from the opposition, asks the question of where your political authority comes from, where it comes from, what it's built from. Well, it's built on the political decision of those who are the absolute winners of the election and who have decided that you continue to do one responsible and serious job. And who does that? That's exactly what those who didn't have the courage to go to the election, who found one single possible solution, which is a desperate and losing move of the boycott, is what makes those who have just so much courage not to answer the press questions or to physically and verbally conflict with journalists, try to edit RTS policy with a motor saw. That's exactly what those who destroyed Belgrade do. This is what those who wanted violently to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although there was no reason, could do so because they were MPs. Why am I saying all this? I don't want to deal with them, but they're sending a message today, while we're sitting here having a discussion, through the media. Always, you know, that moaning. They say - we are not in the media, media freedom. That's all they care about, REM, RST, public service. What dialogue, they're not interested in dialogue, they're not interested in election conditions. They know that election conditions have not been changed since 2008. The only thing that was changed was the financing of political parties, but it was inevitable, because the austerity measures were a priority. It's always where it is, not where it's not. Today they call, he says, or we will discuss election conditions, we have the courage to discuss elections when the elections are over, so they say – or we will discuss election conditions, we will have fair and democratic elections, or we will have civil disobedience and protests. What are these protests gonna look like? We'll see, but I don't mind. I don't want too much, really, to deal with them. This government has great trust and support for citizens. This government, I'm totally convinced, and we're gonna see it tonight, and it has serious political legitimacy. We'll see about that tonight when the MPs come forward. The public's high expectations are precisely that of this government of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens expect one responsible and serious relationship. There cannot and must be no higher interest, no higher goal than what is the interest of Serbian citizens. So when it comes to exposure, clearly defined program, clearly defined plan, goals. The core of the exposé is actually six key points spoken of by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. We fully support this and want to make a full contribution to the realisation of these objectives, because we believe that these are the goals concerning Serbia's future. We have just said so many times – do not discuss forming a coalition, a possible coalition or a parliamentary majority, however, simply watch. There's no talking about who's going to take charge of who's going to function. These are talks concerning Serbia's future and talks concerning the future of each Serbian citizen. First of all, I want to say that the concept and the government's programme as a parliamentary club we see as one comprehensive response to all that are the key priorities today and the government's goal is not to fulfil any political ambitions, but to strengthen the state of Serbia, and that should be focused, and that is where we fully agree. This is a government that does not exist because of political parties that are part of the ruling coalition or because of political marketing of political parties, ratings or marketing of political parties that will have representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is a government that exists because of Serbian citizens. This is not a cabinet created as a result of some rotten political compromises, because it is quite clear – after the parliamentary elections we had a situation, Alexander Vukic and SNS were the absolute winners of the elections, they could have made the ruling majority without coalition partners. So, it wasn't a matter of mathematics here, it wasn't a matter of numbers, or of the need for a number of MPs to form a government, it was a matter of state, responsible, serious and committed, as always. I don't see the fear of making decisive moves, and that's very good, but in your exposé I see one courage to face problems without paying attention to whether you lose a political rating or not and that's very good. This is the reform government for a difficult time. I fully agree here, and I am fully convinced that this is a government that will be able to respond to the challenges of time. It's a good thing you picked up the ladder. It is always good to raise the scale, to give new tasks, because it is good for Serbia's future and it is good for the future of each citizen of Serbia. Let me briefly refer to six key points that the President of the Republic spoke of. First, of course, the issue is number one combating the coronary virus and I completely agree with you. We need to build new facilities, new hospitals, new clinical centres, renovating the old ones. Today, when faced with the biggest health challenge, I read the world is fighting the pandemic, the whole world is fighting the virus, to protect the lives of its citizens, I think that we are the only state, I have not noticed that in one country there is one political party that comes from the ranks of the opposition, which is currently competing with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because everyone understands that they have a common goal and a common task, which is to preserve the life and health of every citizen. There will be space, there will be an opportunity to conduct political dialogue and political discussion, but at this point, let's put the politicization of pigs and especially brutal attacks on people who are heroes today, and I mean health workers, doctors, and let's put that into quarantine at this point, and for everything else there will be space and time. The situation today is difficult, but it is not difficult because of Alexander Vukic, it is not difficult because of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not difficult because of Serbia, so the whole world faces this problem and this is a fight for the future, I say, Serbia, for health, the life of every Serbian citizen. No one who is aware of the moment in which Serbia is present today, in which the whole world is located when it comes to the crown, can say anything negatively and cannot dispute the far-responsible and serious approach of the entire crisis headquarters headed by the president, you and, of course, the whole profession. She reacted quickly and resolutely. Much faster than in some countries in Europe, they even resented that some measures were more rigid, so they took these same measures in their countries, I think of some EU countries, and what can be so strict if you save one human life, if on the one hand you have the price of human life, and on the other hand, you say, you have some kind of rigidity? What's more valuable than that? You know what? They did not choose and choose citizens who are unable to make difficult decisions in difficult times. It's just those who have the ability and the willingness to make difficult, sometimes unpopular decisions, because it's in the best interests of the citizens. What were they thinking? If the president were going to work from home or be in isolation, you would close the cabinet, so you would work online and then everything would be okay and then there would be no criticism? Is that right? So both the president and the entire government, and the entire health profession just did what it is your responsibility, which is that you were with the citizens of Serbia. The second point, the fight for the preservation of state and national interests is very difficult and however difficult this time is and no matter how emotional it may be for us, but it's the only way we have to continue, which we have to go, but we need to be, first of all, open and real to ourselves, whether we're aware of our own position. Kosovo is not ours as we would like it to be, but it is not as lost as others would like it to be. As far as we end up getting out of the whole process, it's up to us again how ready we are to take a realistic look at the situation, but for 20 years it's been silent, actually more than 20 years. This is a centuries-long struggle, but it has long been silent about many things, it has been politics and EU and Serbia, so the wanted persons were people with whom Serbia had to talk, so over hundreds of countries accepted the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, and absolutely no one was asking us anything, so the resolutions were changed on the plane, and in 2011, the border crossings were signed, and since the elections were in 2012, then it was unpopular, then wait for the elections to end, and then the issue was removed from New York to Brussels, so the wrong question arises in front of the International Court of Justice, but let me cut it short. It is essential that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is restored to the agenda. If we were to create one digression, in 2008, when one-sided independence of Kosovo and Metohija was declared, you were with the US administration, correct me, Mr Dacic, if I'm wrong, you could only discuss technical issues and you could discuss it at the level of the stadium. Today, in 2020, the President of the Republic talks to the President of the United States and says very clearly – if you think that you will achieve pressure and that we will accept the independence of KIM, you are wasting your time and leaving the 10th point aside. So today it's clear to everyone there is no solution and no compromise without Serbia. Finally, Serbia is in a position to seek something, not to watch it be taken away from it by piece of territory. Today, thanks to the activities of the former foreign minister and the president of the Republic of Serbia and the entire government of 18 countries, the decision to accept the independence of so-called. Kosovo. It's not about numbers, it's about that, I repeat, there's no compromise and there's no solution without Serbia. How it will end up again depends on ourselves whether we are ready to see the situation realistically, because truth must be the basis for finding a compromise and just solution. As for the determined, of course we support a determined and non-selective fight against crime and corruption, and there is no exception. The law must be the same for everyone. One of the key foreign policy objectives, I must speed up so that the president does not remind me again because he has warned me twice since the start of the mandate, is certainly Serbia's full membership in the EU, but whether or not we will be members of the EU, it is now no longer up to us. Serbia has done everything it could on the path of European integration, achieved extraordinary results, but what we have done is not for Serbia to do for the EU, but to implement some of the standards, which are important and which are significant, here with us. So it is one of the key foreign policy objectives of full EU membership, but Serbia wants to continue to build and strengthen friendly relations with both China and the US and Russia and with many other countries, because the period Corona has shown that when it is difficult, you can rely on two resources, first your own resources and traditional friendship with traditionally-oriented friendly countries. Serbia is free, independent, democratic. Serbia is leading its foreign policy on its own in the best interests of its citizens. He wants NATO co-operation on what are common goals, which is for the sake of preserving regional stability, but wants co-operation with the ODKB, but wants to preserve its military neutrality selfishly. I think it's very important in the period of pressure ahead of us. I have already said that dialogue has no alternative and in this context I want to commend the formation of a new ministry. It's not a typical marketing trick, as some say. It is an important permanent dialogue, it is necessary at all levels with all social groups, especially because the forces that are both against vaccination and which lead an anti-migration policy, which considers the country, as the president himself says, have strengthened the flat panel by many percentages. Serbia must continue to strengthen economically. Today it is quite clear how good the decision was when we defined ourselves for the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although it was an unpopular political move at the time, although at the time we experienced huge criticisms, but if it hadn't been for the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we would not today have a healthy system based on sound foundations, based on an economy based on life rather than on politics and on a list of good wishes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u369	Mr. Milicevic, you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u370	I'm finishing up. Let me just get to the bottom of this for 15 seconds. I assumed you'd interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u371	I have to. I wouldn't interrupt any of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u372	Let me just finish 15 seconds. So the government of the Republic of Serbia had a long-term plan, clearly defined goals, precisely defined goals that were realised. Thanks to the realisation of these goals today, the Ministry of Finance is in a position to help the economy when it's the hardest. Of course at the very end, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u373	Okay, 15 seconds have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u374	Let me score.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u375	Dot. No more point.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u376	I didn't say the parliamentary group's position. Let me at least do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u377	He's very uncertain. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u378	It's uncertain, but I want to announce it. Allow me. So it is common knowledge that you have, of course, Mrs. Brnabic, the support of the SPS parliamentary group. We said we wanted to make a contribution to national and national unity. On all national and state issues, we want to make a contribution to the political stability that has been confirmed after the parliamentary elections, bearing in mind the challenges Serbia will face. You will always understand from us, although in Serbia understanding always comes under criticism, but a test of time has passed and you will again have a consensus as always on all important issues both national and national and economic. I would like to thank the president for his tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u379	Thank you for solving this big dilemma about whether or not the SPS will vote for the government. That was really uncertain. After she announced Mrs. Ragush, but she didn't sign up. You have to press. Here's Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u380	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u381	Press again. I just want to mention it one more time, since it happened today when the candidate for Prime Minister spoke, this system that we have here, regardless of what is within the domain of information technologies, probably more recent generations, but it's still from the last century, so this system is about 30 years old, and it's been in place, it hasn't been in service since the beginning. If the government won't give the money, we'll vote tomorrow. It's not a problem. Prime Minister, there's only one desire to improve the digitalization of the system, and this system would have to be put into operation, not to turn your microphone off without any strings around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u382	I'm glad, Mr. President, that you're signed as Marina Ragush and you just spoke 40 seconds. You could've given your colleague George a free and good share of my time. My address will be very brief. By noon, according to the address of the President of the Republic, this is the hardest day for the state of Serbia. We have about 1,200 infected, and as we talk today about all these topics that are necessary, beyond what is necessary for us to understand the situation in which we are for every citizen and citizen of this country, we are getting sick by people and, at this point, very likely, some are dying. This is a difficult time for the state of Serbia. I wish the citizens of Serbia understood that Serbia was at war. We've been declared by the war by a micro-organism and shown where we are and how strong we as humans are and how strong we can stand up to it. For the first time in modern civilization, a microorganism stopped the planet for three months. It's all stopped. That stop meant, ladies and gentlemen, if you Google it -- the Koron and the economy, the Koron and the finance, you'll see the strongest countries in the world talking about us being in the war economy, that the whole world actually went to war economy. That has to be clear. The consequences of this pandemic are inconceivable both by financial systems and by economic systems and by the crisis of identity, by the social crisis, by the terrible political crisis. Mrs. Brnabic, that's quite understandable. From this place I say with my humble judgment, it will be more difficult for you. It's going to be a lot harder for you than it was in the previous period and at the beginning of this terrible crisis. I have to tell you, I haven't had a chance so far, I think our country and you, as Prime Minister and President of the Republic of Serbia, and the strongest party in this country, have had an extraordinary time. Did you make a mistake? Yes, it is. Are you going to make a mistake? You will. Are we all going to make mistakes? Be assured we will, but that's normal, we're just people, we're not gods. So, at this point, I ask all Serbian citizens, members of various elites, to give this parliamentary assembly and the future government of the Republic of Serbia a chance at an extremely difficult time when we are fighting each individual life, when we are struggling to get paid and pensions paid in time and when we can't even imagine what our economy is going to do. It should be said, Mrs. Brnabic, every day, transparently, without twisting, what a real crisis is and what a situation is. It should be recalled that countries in the region have lost industrial branches. It should also be said to define that the systems are broken, that the health systems cannot withstand this pressure. I admit, I am a layman and probably, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, would have had the opportunity, and only the candidate, would have jumped in here, of course, as a pro from his perspective. You'll correct me at some point, if I'm wrong, the only way to preserve the health system, ladies and gentlemen, is to measure from the Middle Ages and that's so everywhere. Anyone who speaks differently, who says quarantine is a measure beyond measure, who says that the restriction of movement is a measure beyond measure and that it affects our human rights, with a very poor intention, manipulates and directly affects the health security of each of us. In one country of the region, a woman who was responsible for the crisis headquarters when she said anyone who doesn't wear a mask and who doesn't adhere to the crisis staff's scale is a terrorist, she's faced terrible reactions. Was she right? It will correct me, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, at some point, but each of us is a potential virus tank, which can cause a life-threatening category of citizens. Therefore, each of us must think in a way that is maximum responsibility, both to ourselves and to others. These are, I mean, the hardest moments for Serbia and the Serbian government are really an extraordinary responsibility, but what SPAS wants to tell you, you won't be alone in it. You know that Mr. Aleksandar Sapic, the SPAS leader, expressed his position during the consultation and did not ask for any resolution, and if we had not participated in the government, we would certainly have given support, because this is the moment when self-loving, personal, party interests must remain aside and when we must demand national unity. The assumption of that, ladies and gentlemen, is the opening of dialogue and the widest possible consensus. For that, Mrs. Brnabic, you will need a lot of patience, a lot of wisdom, an extraordinary understanding, but that's one time. Not because of the very period of battle against Corona, but also because of the period that comes after. The Serbian Patriotic Union has run for the best among us for the portfolio the President of the Republic insisted on, that is Mr. Ratko Dmitrovic. I believe that Ratko, who has worked for years on topics that have now been handed over to him in office, will give his maximum and very likely surprise to many of his contributions. Finally, to finish my presentation, I wish you good luck in your work. It's going to be a very challenging time. This is your house and for the support of SPASA in these difficult moments for the state of Serbia, you can count.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u383	Thank you. Alexander Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u384	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respected prime minister candidates, respected Serbian citizens, for the first time I have spoken to this world home. Don't mind me if I make some peas, I'll make them human, because what I'm about to say, I'll speak from the heart, and I've always taught my people and my children that when they do it from the heart, no mistake is correct. I will speak in front of the PUPS Group – "Tri P", but I will speak on my own behalf, on behalf of my family, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia who chose me. If I make a mistake, just sign it to me for every single thing I say, you agree with it, give it to these honorable people who have done me the honor of being a part of both these MP groups and this assembly. I'm going to sit down now because these letters are pretty tiny in the exposé, and hopefully the results will be much bigger. I am almost certain of that, but before I sit down, I will say right at the beginning that the PUPS Parliamentary Group – "Tri P" will give full support to the prime minister and team who has chosen the mandate for the fight that is coming to us in the next year and a half, four, eight or many years, because the period in which this Government is entering and we are all entering is a war period. I'd like to introduce myself at first, my name is Aleksandar Jovanovic. I come from the media world. At least I'll stick to it, but I come from a world of ordinary man whose politics is something that many before you have done to disgust it. I hope I don't speak as a politician, not now, but as a man, and I hope that the future government will do its job, first and foremost as a government of people who care about this job from the heart for a job they didn't have to choose, and they chose, not as politicians. The prime minister is in the address, I think in the replica, she said one very important thing that might be a little bit worse to paraphrase – what is more important, results or politics? I think politics is just a reason for the results and the phenomenal results to be right. Politics is not and must not be a matter for which we will gather together and for which we will reason on all our efforts to make everyone better, and I am sure that this is the only goal for the people of this congregation, and for those outside of it. I'm not, nor want to be a good politician, because politics is the art of diplomatic swallowing some very difficult in ugly bites that someone else or that life itself serves you, but I've agreed to become a part of this story, because I've listened a lot to those people who know everything, because I live in a country where seven million prime ministers, seven million selectors, seven million members of the Crisis Staff all know everything, but it's very few people who are willing not to know and say he knows, but to come out and to make a personal example of how it works to make what you think you know and realize. That's why I want to congratulate these people who sit in front of me at first on courage. What you have accepted to do on behalf of all of us, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, is great courage. You agreed to a few and what I agreed to, and I didn't have to, draw a target on your foreheads and foreheads of your family, for fighting for some higher purpose. You're not the ones who'll just say what's wrong, because we've all heard what's wrong and what's wrong, and we've heard what's wrong and what's not right a few times from all those who try to get to your place or in our places, we've heard something concrete, something that needs to be heard. I think it's enough that in Serbia we listen to both what we need and what we don't need, but that it's time to go out and make a personal example of what we think is necessary and realistic. So I admire you for agreeing to such a thing at the moment when, as my previous colleague said, when we are expected by a period which history will remember as probably the most difficult period of parliamentaryism in Serbia, and history is the only one who has the right to judge all of us. Speaking of history, I've been going back about a hundred years, and maybe I should especially address those who didn't have the courage to fight in this fight for Serbia's sake, we all win together. Those are the ones who, complaining of the conditions, gave up all of this. I don't know what it would look like now in 1914 and what history would call all those who did not take part in the rescue for Serbia, to save the lives of all of us. I believe we wouldn't even be here anymore. Would you have the right to complain about the conditions that someone who attacked this country offered and sent ultimatums as well? No, we wouldn't be right. 100 years ago, in 1920, the summed impressions of the greatest pandemic ever to be affected by mankind, the Spanish fever. Do you know what the results are, most of them know? Fifty million people around the planet died of this disease, one third of mankind was infected. That's five times more, if I'm not mistaken, and have someone correct me if I'm wrong, more than the war that ended two years earlier. What happened? Do you think the virus had any idea who it was on which side it was at war, who was leading which policy, who was complaining about what conditions, who were borderline, who was violating human rights, who was violating freedom of the media? At the time, do you think the virus knew any of that? He cut himself, and I killed that people who fought among themselves four years ago. Why? Because of various religious beliefs, because of different political views. Was it worth it? As a man, I think it wasn't worth it and it's never worth it. So, 100 years later, learning from these mistakes, I find it important, if anything, to give an opportunity to all those who are willing not to complain about any conditions, but to sit down without conditions and try to win this. First of all, these people who are in front of me, and then the crisis staff who's been criticized so many times in the moments when the pandemic started, and then when we had some results that, unlike the world's results, had much better math, and not everything in mathematics, that math wasn't an exact science. No one thought to praise them. I didn't hear a single round of applause back then. Believe me, if word gets out today that we've broken the record again it'll be heard and how offensive the words are again at the expense of the Crisis Headquarters. Why? Because people realized on the one hand that everything had become politics. What I can promise on my own personal behalf, I can't promise on behalf of the PUPS, but I will try to do with all my heart, everything I do, on behalf of a parliamentary group that has honored me, but what I can in my personal name promise, that I will try not to be as black and white in Serbia's life, not to be all left and right. Gentlemen, the first thing I'm going to say to you all, which bothered me when I entered this assembly was that it must seem to be applauding only to the members of my parliamentary group when they finish speaking. You see, I'm going to change that, I'm going to applaud all of you who I see have hearts, have honesty, honor, because truth, honor and honesty can't have one side or the other. They're just one. For such truth, honor and trust, I actually agreed to do so when I decided to accept the invitation of the PUPS people, to join them, and when I accepted that on their behalf I would now address and support the government, knowing that I would draw myself on the head of the target by all those who would forget that during my 30-year career of journalists I had done much more than they would for the rest of my life, but I did not go out to highlight my contributions. I didn't have to be here. I chose. My grandfather's name is Vukasin Grujic, long ago resting. Grandpa was a hero from Wranduk. With 16 years of blood on his hands he built the ground, broke through the tunnel, the heavy tunnel, in work actions, Brcko-Banovic and Shamac-Sarajevo. I keep his medal as the most sacred. I didn't have to decide when I was 13 to light my grandfather's cheek and go on a month's work trip to Pirot, to build this country, to a place where I didn't know anyone. I bled like a child and ended up in a hospital and came to Belgrade after a month. Why am I saying this? I feel uncomfortable just saying this because I'm sick of more of those who are going to judge us by who we supported. This people must understand one thing, which is that we will not be better as long as part of the people thinks that part of the people hates Serbian President Alexander Vukic more than the system that made them think that only this hatred will make them better in their lives. Can't we all really understand that what's waiting for us actually requires one human, first of all, consensus by everyone. Can't we really accept that everything in life isn't politics and that sometimes we have to say, well done. It doesn't matter if it's this Alexander Wolf or someone else who's done something very important for this country. Among these ministers are countless who did so before they became politicians, in the field of sports, in some of their dams that they did. Then they could be told bravo by everyone, now that politicians, when they represent us, are they forbidden? I ask everyone, literally who listens, who sees this, I don't have to give an answer. That's what I will personally try to change, at least in this assembly, and I will not hesitate to offer any of the ministers my personal help for anything they need in matters I can do. I won't hesitate to suggest to all these ministers a thing that I think is useful, as I won't hesitate to suggest to everyone now that the first task, when they form their teams, will be to form fast offices for all 23 online ministries, digital ones, all of which will be able to make express themselves, within two clicks, two seconds, to make their proposals. Because this country rests on young, talented, creative and old talented honest people who have something to say, but there's nowhere to be heard. No, remember, there are no stupid ideas, there are stupid and no ideas. Every idea is useful, and when it comes to anyone's side, because a useful idea just as true, honor, can't have an alternative and can't be left or right. What I would say, as far as the government's programme is concerned, I don't think it's going to be more meaningful, or more comprehensive, or smarter than all the people who spoke before me, but I have to turn to it, because just what's waiting for us in those six points, I would like to re-extend that struggle for Serbia's health integrity, because without that fight we won't survive, everything else will be insane, is that these six points are actually in this year, a year and a half of a day, being the basis for something that's going to happen since 2022, and where no one else has the right to say that he didn't have any conditions. Because, you know what, the virus will have no idea if anyone had conditions or had no conditions to help their family. The virus has no idea if anyone who owns a club that works now until five o'clock in the morning, and someone who isn't able to lock him up, is going to jail, has no idea if he's going to infect his or our children. The virus has no idea that members of the law have to change how paedophiles and child abusers can't go to jail by express procedure. The virus doesn't know much. We are here, in fact, to help all these people in front of us have the maximum support to solve these matters by emergency procedure and make compromises. When we learn to applaud each other for all the good we've said or done, then we'll be able to get a round of applause for everything we think is smart in this country. I won't mention the opposition, because I've been part of the opposition for years, but the opposition has to understand one thing, it will become part of a position or position only when they learn to say bravo, when at least one obvious thing is said bravo, when they say bravo about "Belgrade on Water", for example. I don't want to go into the details of it, but it's crazy not to say "Belgrade on Water" bravo about "Belgrade on Water" and not to say "Woe on heroin and Belgrade on the boards," as it was before it was now "Belgrade on Water". It's just one thing. I know I'm taking a risk, I know this government in the shadows on Twitter is going to crucify me now, but I absolutely don't care. I know that many of my colleagues who are watching this now and who think that my colleagues, many of whom I've trained to be good editors, will now try to look for something from my biography that doesn't suit them, but I am sure that at least on my behalf and on behalf of the MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia "Three P" to try to, no matter what blows, all insults, I will make some contribution to helping these people and this government that should help Serbia and all of us. For the end, I will not go back to history, but I will have to say one thing that has to do with the ministry that will be led by Mr Milan Krkobic, president of the United Pensioners of Serbia. Not because I need to court him or because I need to highlight his work, or because he asked me to. Moreover, I think he may be angry with what I'm saying, but I think one of the ministries that are really crucial in the coming period and the Ministry of Care for the village of Serbia. The village ministry unites, not agriculture, because you can be a farmer from Belgrade, from Jagodina, from Kragujevac, unites all other ministries, and the Ministry of Demography, and the Ministry of Tourism and all other things. It is therefore important that this ministry has the grounds to lead the Serb village to survival in the next 10, 15, 20 years. Without a Serbian village, we don't exist. By all parameters, Serbia will disappear in 2050, when the last Serbian village disappears. What the data is, which I only came up with when I got a little deeper into this story, says 570,000 rural households in Serbia, that there are 12,000 people, that there are 12,000 pensioners who have a pension of 12,000 dinars. The villages are shutting down, and then some people, with the support of the president and the previous government, decided to create a National Programme for the Rebirth of Serbia, which made a national team composed of equally honorable people, who did not have to sacrifice some of their lives and comfort to deal with this. But they must know, the battle for the village is not a battle for the peasants, it's a battle for our children who were born in the city. It's a battle for grandchildren and great-grandkids. As much as someone tried to misread what I was going to say next, but the village is the heart of Serbia. Everything else we can do is talk like a flossule and drill into the chest, and we can forget about it tomorrow. The village is where we came from, where we are and will remain the heart of Serbia forever. Without the village, we can't breathe. I'm saying this from personal experience, because unlike many others, I've decided to go back in the opposite direction. I was born in Belgrade, in the same house where my father and grandfather were born, in Starar, and then I discovered a village in my 52 years of life, in the area of Prepolje, and I love that neighborhood, and I intend to spend my retirement days there. That's why I fight for myself and for my children. I will no longer deal with the past, nor advise this government. You can't change the past. My request to you is to make a future that will soon become a part of the past, but one you won't need to change. Because history may be written by winners, but it's up to us to do everything we can to keep those winners from being amongst us. Thank you again, everyone. I'm sorry if I may have gone a little emotional in my speech. I also apologize to the people of my parliamentary group if I jumped off the subject. I repeat, I spoke from my heart and every mistake I make I'm willing to correct, but I'm willing to do the same to help all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u385	Thank you. As agreed, there will now be an hour's break. After the break, since there is only one MP group left, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, Milenko Jovanovic will speak. Before that, I ask you to be there at exactly 15 hours and 15 minutes, because the new MPs, before this discussion, will have to take an oath before me to verify their mandate. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we continue the discussion, you received the resignation of MP Novica Tonchev as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as regards the examination of this resignation, which found that by resigning the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposed that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88(3) and 4 of the same law lays down the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to the National MP Novaca on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly and at today's meeting. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Nevena Vujadinović, Petar Vesovic, Nemanja Popovic, Milan Jugovic, Mirjana Radenkovic, Bosiljka Srdić, Boris Bursac and Ac Petrovic, selected from the electoral list "Alexandar Vukic – For our children" and MP Ljiljana Kuzmanovic Vujaković, selected from the electoral list "Alexandar Šapić – Podza for Serbia". On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Nevena Vujadinovic, Petar Vesovic, Nemanja Popovic, Milan Jugovic, Mirjana Radenkovic, Bosiljka Srdić, Boris Bursac, Ac Petrovic and Ljiljana Kuzmanovic Vujakovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election and please prepare to take an oath. Please approach. Since you've already joined, please repeat the text of the oath after me. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the Members of Parliament to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf on the election for MPs and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. Like I said, I'll give the word to Milenko Jovanov, just ask him to sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u387	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable prime minister, the respected candidates for members of the Government of Serbia, I will not be surprised if I say that the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For our children" will fully support the choice of this government, the programme of this government, the goals it has set before it, because it is a programme which this coalition, therefore, "Alexandar Vukic – For our children" has presented to the citizens of Serbia and for this programme has received huge support from the people. I wish, dear Mrs Brnabic, to thank you for the serious and exhaustive exposé you have submitted to the MPs here, which shows your relationship with the Assembly, your relationship with the citizens, your relationship with us as MPs. I especially want to stress that because some previous cases have said that these exposés were filed in 20 minutes, believe it or not. Like the exposés, so were governments, and so were their results. There is something that is known in parliamentary practice and in some political, conditionally speaking, to the bonton, which is that the government is given a hundred days after forming to get to know the ministers a little bit about the concrete work they're going to do, to see how things work. But this government, which has not yet been elected, no one has given a hundred seconds, not a hundred days and since Sunday afternoon, there about half past 12, when the names of the people who will be proposed by the SNS in the Government of the Republic of Serbia began to be feared attacks personal to each of the candidates individually. This shows that some people have absolutely no intention of changing their behavior, changing their way of dealing with politics, but will continue to replace their personal accusations, while false, untrue, disgusting, horrible, replacing the fact that they have no policy, because at no time they have not attacked the Government, for the simple reason that, although these six objectives had been published before, the government itself has not proposed its own policy and that policy has not been adopted anywhere. Another type of criticism was that this government had no legitimacy. They say the Assembly, where we are, has no legitimacy, so from such an illegal assembly comes a government that also has no legitimacy. The only problem they have is that legitimacy is not determined by political parties' statements, but by people's decisions in the free elections, as we had. So the citizens of Serbia gave very clearly and unequivocally support to the Alexander Vukic coalition – for our children, for the programme we presented to the citizens. The coalition was also joined by some other parties and coalitions participating in the elections, so the government's support is wider than that of only our coalition, which says enough how legitimate it is and how much support this government has at the moment in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the existence of legitimacy or the existence of legitimacy, support of the people, not statements of political parties, because it is both logical and theoretically inexplicable and impossible. Because it would give every political party the right to veto elections that would not go well if it participated. What's that supposed to mean? I get the results of the research, I see in the research I'm not good at standing, publishing a boycott of the election, and I say everything that forms is illegal. That's not how it works. It is very important that you stressed that this will be the Government of Continuity and Political and Economic. It is particularly important that you stressed that this will be the government of continuity, not only with the previous government, but with the government since 2014, the first government of Alexander Vukic. This is important to us for the simple reason that it is the government that hit the foundations, the solid and stable foundations of the policy that is being led today and then formed. You listed the results that came from that government, you listed the results that were recorded on these foundations both last and last year. I would, if I may, just add a few more things to that. It's a government that after a long, long time brought a man back to the center of political events. We've been working on some big topics since 1945, let's face it, and we've had great ambitions at the world level. Serbia and then Yugoslavia were engaged in an attempt to defeat world communism, to defeat capitalist imperialism. Well, then we were dealing with self-government socialism, or self-management, then in the 1990s, we were dealing with anti-globalism, and after two thousand, probably anti-anti-globalism, and in these big issues, they forgot people, ordinary people who needed to solve a common problem, the way, that his kid was going to a normal school, that he had a job, to build a factory, etc. So in these big themes, we've forgotten what the core and the essence of politics is, and that's to make people live better. Since 2014, the government has returned a man, some say an ordinary man, I don't like that expression because it would mean that there are unusual people, although when I think of, say, former MP Sasa Radulovic, there may be but, therefore, she has brought a man back to the heart and the center of political events and decisions and everything is being made and everything is being done to help and make a better life for the individual, the man, the citizen of this country. It was a policy that you later continued, which in one wise way approached international policy, regional policy, taking into account the interests of the Serbian state and the interest of the Serbian state was then put at the highest possible level of interest of anyone who deals with politics in Serbia. By then, even governments were not always formed in line with what is the interest of the Serbian state, and they were certainly not formed as Serbian citizens voted and wanted, but were formed in accordance with the interests of tycoon and embassy, so that it was another victory that was won for Serbia, which is that power was restored to the people, that the people of Serbia in the elections said who they wanted in power and who they were in opposition. It's something you have to watch out for. Finally, what is particularly important for SNS is that national dignity has begun to return during that period. Something that was long forgotten, something that was foretold in the state of Serbia, so it turns out that in the state of Serbia, the most important thing is to come up with a more beautiful and merciful apology for everyone and everyone. It was a government that began to change that established story in the region, that it was always Serbia's fault and all. That is why we are proud of the decision made on the day of Serbian unity, so we are also proud of the monument to be erected to Stefan Nemanja. We're proud of that series about the Germans who, look how interesting it is, is in the same way, from the same people attacked, with the same argument, quasi argument more precisely, as this monument is attacked today, completely identical. Who's minded by the father of the Serbian state? But that was also the problem in that time and time. So, these are about some of the things that have been achieved in this previous period and that we want you to continue and that is why it is important to us that it is the government of continuity and that you work closely together, as you said in the exhibition with the President of the Republic, the president of our party, Alexander Vukic. This government has already won one victory, and that's that according to the number of women in the government, it's by Bloomberg, so no one's going to say it's Vucic's bots and something like that. So it raised Serbia, or the government's composition, to the highest global level in this context, by women's participation in the executive government. We showed once again the difference between those who talk and those who work. So, years went on empty stories, something that didn't produce results. We today have a concrete result that shows how to take serious and responsible approaches to this issue and how the chance, unfortunately, is given to the less represented gender in politics. You have presented six points that the president has defined as points that this government has agreed to and will be the objectives of this government. We absolutely agree that the fight against corruption and crime must be vigorously led, that it cannot and must not be anyone who is seen through the fingers, because it is a struggle for the state of Serbia. So this monster has to get the answer he deserves, and I'm sure you'll work on that answer and follow. The fact that the president of the state is headed by this fight, the fact that the Serbian government takes it as one of its priorities, the fact that we in parliament have spoken several times about Parliament being an ally in that fight, says that we are all on the same task and says that we will have a better chance of getting to what we all aim at, and that is to once stop that monster in the end. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is an extremely painful and difficult topic for which we will need both patience and strength on the inside and on the outside. On the outside to explain the arguments of Serbia that some think there are none at all, because we represented it ourselves, because we had a foreign minister who ran around and begged to free us from this ballast, and on the other hand, to explain on the inside that things were not often the way we wanted them to be, but that reality had to be the way we didn't like it, that we had to realize that some things had gone wrong and that some of the things had come to account for some of our wrong decisions in the past. Bad decisions always have consequences. It is especially important that we continue to fight for the health of the population. It is particularly important to continue economic reforms. It is particularly important that all these six objectives are achieved. They are not lined up by priorities, they are not targets in vertical order but in horizontal order and they will ask you to say the old Serbian word - multitasking, that at the same time several, or these six goals, realize that you are working on them at the same time, and that at the same time try to achieve as little steps in achieving the final goal. We care that the development plan for Serbia 2025 is an integral part of your programme and plan for the next period. It is a plan to complete Serbia's transformation. This Serbia in 2025 is something we all want, something we all fight for. It is Serbia's networked roads, railways, with its infrastructure resolved, in villages. And that's something we talk about the village. The village is important agriculture, the people in the country live on it, but the man in the country wants to have all the conditions for life like those living in the city. They want to have a sewer, they want to have a plumbing, they want to have an Internet, they want to have it all. So it is also important for us to define in a special way the ministry that will deal with it. There's something interesting about these three ministries. So, like some other situations that have occurred in the past. There's some kind of problem in society. Everyone's talking about this problem, and when someone starts to solve that problem, then you hit the one that solves that problem. That's how it happened with Belgrade on the water, someone mentioned it today. So, everyone knew it was a problem, everyone knew it was a drug bust, everyone knew it was the ugliest part of this town, and then when someone solved it, when it made the most beautiful part of Belgrade, the most modern part of Belgrade, that's the problem. Well, that's how it is in this case. It was said that the problem is that there is no dialogue, which raises the question of human rights, etc. Well, the issue of rural development has been raised, the issue of birth and fighting for greater natural growth is raised. And then, when someone started these problems to solve, now we're going to attack, what do we need these ministries for? Guys, is that a problem or not a problem? Let's make a deal for a start. So this guarantees that in one serious and systematic way it will work, that it will approach these problems with the idea to solve the problem, not to talk about the problem. And that's a big step compared to some previous period. I'm particularly glad you mentioned something in your exposé called artificial intelligence, which is an important priority for the government. Why am I saying that? Serbia, unfortunately, has lost track of the world in the last 30 years. In the worst period for us, therefore, from the beginning of the 1990s to 2012, the world was moving very quickly, and we had wars, bombings, the destruction of businesses through sanctions, through non-competitiveness, outdated technology, an outdated way of functioning, and then we had little business that had been destroyed, sold out and left to tycoons to shut down firms in the interior because of three places in Belgrade. We have to get the world, because if they do, we'll never catch them. It turns out that our brains, through IT technologies, and how they can be competitive in the world. So this is why it's important that we try to catch up through these areas with this fourth industrial revolution, even though we've already been through this somehow, as a bad student when it gets through, let's now in this new age to catch up with the world and maybe be, why not, and some leaders, even regionally, if not wider? We've shown that we can. We've shown we can play sports. Here, now we're showing that we can do it in the economy. We've shown that we can do it by the number of women in the government, so let's say that maybe we can do something about this in that direction. So, before you are clear goals, before you are clear tasks, program you have, plan you have, broad support you have. Ladies and gentlemen, you serve Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u388	Thank you. Since we have exhausted a list of speakers who have the status of president, or representatives of parliamentary groups, they have now submitted parliamentary groups to a list of MPs who would like to take the floor. I'd only remind you once more that we'd have a captain as we announced. The goal is to take an oath, if everything's okay, and I don't doubt it will, but I say for procedural reasons, about 2.00 hours would be an oath. To get to that, we need to make a vote on time. I'm asking the chiefs of the Parliament Clubs to, given all this, a little downgrade the number of people we've reported to be able to get this over with tonight. We are moving to a discussion within this list of registered speakers. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. He's an MP outside the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u389	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today we heard an exhaustive exposé. What I particularly want to point out is that I am pleased to have the formation of three new ministries on which our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, pointed out in his previous term the Ministry of the Village, because our country remains empty, the ministry that will deal with social dialogue, because as a society we are essentially divided and we need dialogue and reconciliation and the Ministry of Demography, because every day we are less and less, and Bosniaks, Serbs, all citizens and citizens living in Serbia. What's important is the segment of the exposé is foreign policy. I expect the new government to continue good co-operation with the United States, especially after the Washington Agreement is signed, because we think it's a chance we don't need to miss anymore. Also, what needs to be pointed out are European integration, faster opening and closing chapters, because this process really is slow going on and energy needs to be invested to speed up the process. What is also an important segment is regional policy. We believe that there is no lasting stability of the Balkans without the essential reconciliation between Bosniak and Serbian Akannarod, and that is the field and topic on which we should all work together. Also, what we expect from the new government of the Republic of Serbia is to continue good co-operation with the Muslim world, with Muslim countries, because these are major investors in the Republic of Serbia. These are countries where our companies have traditionally been present since the time of the former Yugoslavia and not only through the placement of food and finished products, but also through the placement of services. As for the economy, I will refer only to that segment concerning the expectations of citizens and citizens in Sandzak. We expect to finally get one big investment in this government's mandate. We expect a continuation of highway construction, construction of a clinical center in Novi Pazar. We have seen the challenges facing citizens and citizens in Sandzak. We expect gasification and construction of the railway to Novi Pazar. What I especially must point out and what I am not satisfied with is that in this proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we do not have representatives of minority communities living in the Republic of Serbia, although one third of citizens and citizens in the population are minority communities, but what is the fact is that in some previous mandates we have had more representatives in the government, so we have not had any concrete developments on the ground, and this is also a chance for this government to show how it can work as well. What I want to point out is that this government needs a chance. We can't judge, we can't judge, we can't give it a chance, we can see how much they can, what they know, and how brave they have to deal with the challenges that we face as a country and as a society. I expect after 100 days of government here to discuss concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u390	Thank you. The next reported MP is Vladan Glisic. Does he want a word? He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u391	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the distinguished candidate for members of the government, today's session of the National Assembly where we choose the Serbian Government, the product of the election results held on 21 June 2020, where more than a convincing and bright victory took the SNS with its coalition partners, namely the list "Alexander Vukic – for our children". Then we came to a paradoxical situation. Namely, some media with a tycoon sign, these are the same media that favored the Gilas Group, which boycotted these parliamentary elections, started a campaign to challenge the legitimacy of the election results, tried to challenge the legitimacy of the National Assembly, hence the Serbian Government, and then, when they realized that it was not going to go hand in hand, they went into another campaign, and that is – when the government, why is it waiting so much with the government's election, and they started counting down days, hours, minutes, etc. on those portals of yours. Here, to cheer them up -- very soon, the Serbian government will be elected, by the end of today, certainly, and by tomorrow we all continue to go the way we have been going, which, I say, has drawn and routed Alexander Vukic since 2014. It is extremely important for me to point out that we are choosing a government that will represent the continuity of Serbia's reform progress, the continuity of everything that Prime Minister Brnabic has expressed in her exposé in terms of the current results of the Serbian government, numerous results in numerous segments that no one relevant is trying to dispute, and when we talk about continuing economic growth, and when we talk about the struggle for Serbia's interests, but also the preservation and survival of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, and when we talk about the fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus, and when we talk about preserving Serbia's political stability and especially when we talk about fighting corruption and organised crime. Can anyone argue that year after year we strengthen economic activity, that we create a better investment environment? Can one challenge the fact that from year to year we are incuring a greater inflow of direct investment, which directly affects the increase in the number of new jobs, and which directly affects the rise in the standard of living for citizens, as well as Serbia's overall economic growth? Can anyone argue that Serbia today is more incomparably respected in the world and that we have succeeded, to say, to restore the reputation of all the important political factors in the world? Can anyone dispute that Serbia today is an absolute leader in the region by all parameters, that it is the basis for all Serbs wherever they live, ready to help them and protect them if they need to? Can anyone argue that Serbia's security and defence system is high-level, very high-level, and, dare I say, perhaps at the highest level in the last few decades, incomparably higher levels than in years when some have robbed and destroyed Serbia, deliberately destroyed our army, deliberately devastated our defence system, melted tanks, sold weapons, and easily and heavily, as old iron and all that said -- and what will the army do to us? Unlike them, we know exactly what we need an army to do. Unlike them, we know how important it is to invest in an effective and modern army as a factor of peace and stability? Just because we don't want wars, because we don't want new conflicts, because we want peace and stability in the region, that's why we invest and strengthen and modernise the military and the entire defence system of our country. And despite all the good results I've been talking about, we know that we can't relax, we know that it's not enough to just say – well, we're better than those pests that have been robbing and destroying Serbia for years, and that's the end. It's not the end of it. We know we're better, but there's no relaxing. We know it's not enough and that's why every time we raise the scale more and more, because we know that we can do better, that we will make Serbia a successful, orderly and decent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u392	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The next reported is MP Enis Imamovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u393	Thank you, Your Honor. As our president of the parliamentary group said at the outset, the SDA of Sandzak will not vote for this government. We've heard several times that this government is a government of continuity, and this is exactly why we won't vote for it, because we see it as a continuity of persecution of unsuspecting, continuity of asphyxiation of civil liberties, continuity of asphyxiation of freedom of the media, continuity of brutal accounts with anyone who dares to say or express a different attitude and opinion. In the exposé we heard, we did not notice any concrete measure to include Albanians and Bosniaks in state institutions with public authority in the first row of police, judiciary, prosecution and other state authorities with public authority. So how will this government achieve this objective of equal and even representation of minority peoples in state bodies with public powers, especially because of the fact that it had to bear in mind, which is that this criticism was a criticism of all European Commission reports on Serbia's progress towards the EU? Another of our main objectives is serious decentralisation, which was also not the case in the exposé. This represents for us the exercise of the rights of the Sandzak citizens to autonomy, because we Sandzak see as a political-terroral continent of equal citizens and peoples living in it, which they have just declared in a referendum on 27 October 1991. We do not offer such a model of decentralisation and regionalization only for Sandzak, we also predict such a model for the Woodland, for the Sword, for the Podunavlje, for the Ninth End and just the most developed countries in the world are those that are most regionalized and even federalized. Often, many of you are not comfortable listening to what we stand for, but not one step that is important is easy and not one step that we need to take in a positive direction at times like this in which Serbia is located is not pleasant. One such step is to face the past honestly and seriously. In this regard, as representatives of Bosniaks, we insist and continue to insist on the recognition, conviction and banning of genocide in Srebrenica, as well as the resolution of kidnappings in the North, the Strpts and numerous other crimes committed against the Sandzak Bosniaks. We believe that this is the first and most important step towards opening dialogue between the Bosniak and Serbian people. This is necessary to enable future generations of our people to light the present, to free them from the burdens of crimes committed on their behalf. We expected the government to seriously approach and determine the responsibilities for the failures that led to the threat of the lives and health of our citizens, especially in Sandzak and Presevo Valley during the first and second wave of the coronary virus. A government that is not prepared to face responsibility in such a way cannot have our vote. We have been in this parliament for 30 years, which makes us one of the oldest and most experienced parties, parliamentary parties in Serbia. This speaks of our permanent determination to solve all problems, all these issues within the system's institutions by dialogue, condemning the use of force and violence to achieve political solutions and political goals. We want to have a dialogue. We have proved this through our participation in all dialogues, essential dialogues launched in the Republic of Serbia. We proposed concrete measures, you didn't like many measures, but we see that even after all these years to these measures, we come back and forth again, which means that these things have to be solved. We do not know with what capacity and integrity the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and social dialogue will have. So far, we're extremely skeptical about this, but we're not exclusive. We won't vote for this government because we don't trust her. Thank you. (Djordje Milicevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u394	Yes, Mr. Milicevic, I see you. Mr. Imamovic, just one note regarding the opportunity to express the critical attitude you spoke of, do not miss to notice that you spoke, freely and openly, of all the criticisms you intended to make and there was no brutal account you mentioned, but absolutely none. When we say that we have reached certain standards in this House, among other things, we mean it. Mr. Milicevic, you in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I point out the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, actually Article 107, I'm sorry. I think the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been violated because notorous lies have been told. Among other things, some of these lies are persecuting inexperience, which has never happened in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you, the boycott in parliament did not occur because someone wanted to prevent a democratic debate and a democratic confrontation of opinions, but one part of the opposition was unable to demonstrate its strength through such a kind of debate. Second notor lie, freedom of the media. You know, you're a lot more of that moaning by one part of the opposition, the complaining about the media in the media. So, the media are free, autonomous in decision-making and we are not engaged in editorial media policy, not in the way that one part of the opposition wanted. As for the Srebrenica Declaration, so the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, correct me if I'm wrong, adopted the Srebrenica Declaration, bowed to the victims, right? Did another parliament in the region do that? It's not. The president of the Republic went to Srebrenica. Was it an attempt to kill the president of the Republic of Serbia? Is that someone and in any way condemned and is that... ? Serbia faces the past and shows its readiness to do so. This willingness was shown by the President of the Republic, and how did it go? How much longer do we need to show this readiness? Give this willingness to show little others in the region, at least a small part of how the Republic of Serbia does and how it does and does so by the President of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want the People's Assembly in voting day to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u396	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Since you have already stated that you do not want the National Assembly to vote on the injury shown, I can only thank you for that, but as far as the argument is concerned, I gave it to a significant extent through a comment on Mr Imamovic's presentation. Of course saying the lies behind the pay phone is not a matter that any of us would welcome, but we who run the session leave it to you who speak from the bench to respond to such phenomena. According to the statement, from the time of the parliamentary group, Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u397	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, this government is continuity, above all in this anti-fascist and anti-Nazi view, because certainly no one in the government will ever say that Acif Hadjiahmetovic is an anti-fascist, but on the contrary. They will say it is an absolute Nazi and Nazi collaborator, as well as Shaban Poluža, as well as the "Hanghar Division" that existed. So, on that point, I am absolutely supporting this government to continue in that direction. Now, as far as the government itself is concerned, and as far as its composition is concerned, first of all, I have to say that, apparently, there is no opposition here or not in any significant amount, that doesn't mean that you're coming here as flying. On the contrary. I think you'll be far more critical now and it won't be easy for you to come here to defend certain laws. I must agree with you, Mrs. Comic. You've been our fellow MP for years. Parliament needs to be stronger than the government. You depend on us, not us. Therefore, you will be here and how criticised and unlike some of the earlier periods when the opposition mostly had pure saliva without any argument, you will have an argument here and I believe it will be much harder for you to defend yourself. Now, don't expect it to be easy for you here. Mrs. Komic, I am pleased that you have entered this government, although many will blame me now, I agree with you ideologically nothing under God's grace and we will never agree, but you have shown a certain amount of courage, because what you have suffered in the last days, I hope that you have now seen who you have sat with for so many years. So those who raised you to heaven by yesterday say the worst things about you. I'm really reading it with disgust. It's just amazing that they changed their mind like that. In doing so, you haven't changed your political opinion, not even ideology, nothing, but you just realized that what they're doing is completely harmful, decadent, abnormal, absolutely insane. It is a suicide in politics and you have simply defined yourself to articulate some of your views in the best possible way. I'm glad you got the chance, although I have to admit that some of your liberal understanding that you have is hard for me to ever accept, but it's nice to talk to you and it's always been hard to go to any duel because unlike them, you're ten times more educated and it's not naive to talk to you at all. I must say that I am very happy today that no restrictive measures have been introduced and I support and absolutely welcome that decision that there are no restrictive measures on the crown. I know that many in health care won't agree with me, but this country has to think about jobs and economics. We can talk whatever we want, without economics this country will absolutely fail. I must now point out that I am glad that Mrs. Atanaskovic is coming in, not as an expert, because I can't stand the word. These experts who were in the government, I don't know first who gave them the license that they were experts, I don't know where the license to be an expert is, but the woman comes from the economy, as someone who successfully ran the first 5-year-old company, and now you come as someone from the economy to run a real estate economy. I absolutely welcome that and how you led the Five-year-old, I believe that you will be run by the economy, which means successful. I believe that it will really be good for the whole population, and first of all, for our country, for those before, because in these abnormal conditions that exist in the world, and in terms of the economy, you're really going to have a very, very, very difficult job. For some of you, the right to tell you, I regret that you have come to these places, not because I have something personal against you, but I personally feel sorry for you, for what you will face. This fight against crime and corruption, the one that gets to the seats of the Home Secretary and the Minister of Justice now, the one that's really caught up, the one that's got to be caught by the head, but that's what it is, you don't have where you're from, you just have to deal with it. I, Mr. Vulin, first of all, really feel sorry for you here, but what can I say to you is that it's what you do and go ahead in the fight against crime and corruption. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I've read the biography of the future minister and she's really something she promises, which she really promises, but that fight in the judiciary is going to be scary. I have to say on my own case, and now I really have to say something publicly, as much as I may be convicted, but ever since I became president of the Parliament's Justice Committee, this is about six or seven days today, I don't know how many calls I've received, various messages, especially because of these various selections of judges, prosecutors, etc. So, please, everyone, don't do this. And I'm not interested in who's gonna be in the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, I'm not interested in being a judge at all. Whoever is expert, let him win, let him be in that body, I don't personally care, and I believe he will possess you. So, I know what's waiting for you and how the situation is in the judiciary at all, it's the cancer of the Serb society's wounds. Unfortunately, because of several people who have completely destroyed our judiciary, a huge number of honest judges and prosecutors suffers and unfortunately this fight against crime and corruption does not go the right way. I've already said here in my first presentation a few days ago, so, a free fight against crime and corruption, if there's no support from the prosecution, we can freely forget it, there'll be nothing of it. As for the army, I am absolutely someone who advocates the development of our army, because it is a stronger army, it is a stronger economy, it is stronger and it is an economy. And what you, Mr. Vulin, have done so far has been really good, and certainly everything Mr. Vukic has provided with, above all, the countries that have helped us to develop our army, that is something that is truly fantastic. I believe the people are looking forward to it. Our people rejoice most when they see our army strengthen us and I am absolutely someone who is a supporter of it. The army must be truly at its peak, always responding to potential challenges. We see what's going on in the global world. You know, when they tell me, what are we arming? Well, of course we're arming ourselves. Well, just a crazy man being, just completely people who are absent from reality don't arm themselves. Well, look at everyone around us, you know, nobody's gonna say when Croatia buys offensive helicopters, tell them why they're arming themselves, but that's why we buy defensive weapons, to defend ourselves, that's terrible, that's the militarization of society, etc. Just you, Mr. Stefanovic, keep moving in that direction. The army must be as strong as possible in all fields absolutely to develop. So, I believe it will be in the right sense in continuity. Mrs. Brnabic, you are again the front man, or leader of this government. I'm glad you started something our people didn't understand all this time, it's so-called. It's the digitalization of our society. I can only say that our IT resources, or people who deal with this segment, are top 20 in the world, and we have to make huge money here. I believe we'll succeed. Of some countries that are more human, which have better even resources to develop this sector, these countries are weaker than we are, because we have a truly gifted youth. And in that segment, I wish you and I give you full support. What I'd like to ask you, which is so-called. These hacker attacks on our public enterprises, which have been going on for the past few months, which are really scary, that we have a better delusion in the virtual world. You know, if the boundaries are protected physically on the ground, we have to protect those virtual borders. Therefore, I ask you to keep us as strong as possible in that segment. All in all, I call, of course, all to vote for this government. This will be the government of dialogue. This will be the government that will sweat here, I guarantee you, when you come to parliament. And this will certainly be government, as someone said, continuity. You're married for a year and a few days. Give in those years and a few days to do something very good for this country. Mr. Momirović, here, first of all, I think of you, because you will get a segment to continue building infrastructure, roads, to build. I am glad to have this much to build in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad. It's never been a better apartment. So go ahead. And as many of these apartments as possible for our security forces and for some other segments, if possible. All in all, I call on everyone to vote for this government and keep this country moving forward with reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u398	Thank you. According to the statement, Selma Kučević. Does he want a word? He's not here. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u399	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished candidates for Prime Minister and members of the Government, it is my great honor to speak for the third time today about the government's election. At first, I had the opportunity to participate in the election of Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister, and then you, Mrs Brnabic, and I am glad that for the second time today you are here before us as a prime minister and as a candidate for prime minister. We are witnessing major and difficult reforms that you have had the courage to implement, but on the other hand, we have witnessed a lot of investment talks, a lot of new projects, a lot of strategies that are just waiting to be implemented. So today we can say that we are talking about the Government of Continuity, the Government that is here to continue to start and to finish what has been started, to continue reforms and to lead Serbia forward in all areas. The goals that President Aleksandar Vucic spoke of were set in thoughtfully, and I am quite sure that you will be committed in the coming period to work and determined to conduct politics, in implementing a policy that Serbian citizens have given huge support in the last elections. As a folk MP coming from Nis, I want to thank you for supporting the development of southern Serbia. In his time, Aleksandar Vukic made a promise, and that promise has also been fulfilled, that the south of Serbia will develop more than ever. By 2012, unfortunately, it wasn't like that. We were witnesses of the city we lived in at the time. You remember the factories were closed, people were out of a job. Nis was then a forgotten city, not only for young people who could not find their place, but there was no hope that the economy, economy or education would develop, considering Nis is one of the major university centers. Today Nis has new factories, thousands of new jobs. The unemployment rate continues to decrease. We have seen how many highways Nis now connects with other cities in Serbia, so it connects it regionally. We also have an airport that's now breaking all the records. As a university city, we have received a science and technology park, which has invested millions of euros and which now provides opportunities and economies, as well as young scientists and researchers to find their place and where they can work. Also, I wanted to say that we got a lot of new apartments in Nis, first of all for security forces, but also a lot of new so-called. social housing, which enable young people, young married couples who have no real estate to buy their first apartment. Today we can say that we have one of the most modern clinical centres in Nis at over 50,000 square feet. We can therefore say that millions of euros have been invested in the development of the South, and this reflects not only on the better standard of living, but now Nis has become a real regional centre and has gained its role. I like to be brief and concrete in my address, so I'm gonna do it now. I want to tell you, Mrs. Brnabic, that we look forward to the 2025 programme, which you announced, which means more than 14 billion euros. I want to tell you, as a council member of the City Hall of the Red Cross in Nis, that it is particularly important to announce that all villages will receive water and sewerage. On the territory of our municipality there are 23 villages of which 19 villages have such problems. You'll see what kind of problems you'll be facing only there, if I tell you that only in five populated places there is a built sewage network and that it's a similar situation with a water network. I would remind only that more than 33,000 people live in the territory of this municipality and that about 25,000 people live in these villages. Why did I bring this up? I have presented this information in order to, on the one hand, understand what challenges, large, large and difficult you will meet in the further performance of your work and the function of the prime minister. Here is just on the case of one city municipality in Serbia, and on the other hand I mentioned this to transfer the application of all citizens from this municipality to help and support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to improve the standard of living and so that they no longer face problems such as incorrect drinking water, dying of cattle in villages when there are great heat or difficulty in functioning of all people who actually want to stay in those villages. Finally, I would like to congratulate you on your courage so far, on your hard work and on your hard work, and to tell you that you will always have the support for the bill you are about to give us in the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – for our children. I wish both you and all the candidates all the happiness in the upcoming work and that you will lead Serbia in big steps along with our President, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u400	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Next, according to Nadia Beqiri. One information only for you, due to time, minutes and 48 seconds left for the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u401	Dear citizens, Parliament Speaker Ivica Dacicu, honourable MPs, respected present, at the beginning, I want success in the new composition of the government, of course, continued work on the affirmation of the rights of national minorities. I belong to the Albanian minority in the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, municipalities where there is an urgent need to improve Albanian rights and improve economic and social development. Dear President, in these municipalities, it is primarily necessary to change the state approach towards the Albanian minority as equal citizens, both in presenting state and public institutions, and in social life, and in improving our rights guaranteed by the laws of Serbia and international conventions. As an MP representing the interests of the Albanian minority and citizens in this country, I urge you, future prime minister, ministers, to start a serious policy, commitment, improving prosperity. Also, I think it is time for the Albanian minority to be given the opportunity to work more for their community, and to improve its position in co-operation with other state bodies, although we have felt discriminated so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u402	Thank you, Mrs. Beqiri. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u403	I would only say that in that Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stands, Sandzak and Presevo Valley do not exist as municipalities, these are the fictional names of parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia which you obviously want, as a national minority, to attract some votes to enter this Assembly to hold sermons on the nationality of certain minorities. The Republic of Serbia has a state-defined law on national minorities, so it would make a difference between your national minority or any other. It is never more developed when it comes to Serbia's relations, as states, towards national minorities than it is now. You can also check this in Pristina and Tirana, and you will see that Serbia is indeed in every international institution, in terms of national minorities, at the highest level, although many national minorities in Serbia call themselves certain names that do not correspond to EU Member States, which is why they simply want to support certain national minorities when it comes to certain cultural issues, economically. That's why we have developed so-called. cross-border co-operation, and this is best known by the Ministry of European Integration, and where we truly have very good relations and cultivate, not only the cultural benefits of these long-standing relations, but also good relations with all these countries. So what you've been trying to do here, and every day you're trying to get through that so-called. the names of non-existent municipalities in Serbia, does not give you the right at all to talk here about the bad relations of national minorities in Serbia. Today, this government we choose here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia is the result and the fruit of political reality. All those who wanted to go to the elections and show their programmes had opportunities for Serbian citizens to get support for it. The Serbian Progressive Party apparently received support for the programme with which it came to Serbian citizens, and thus showed that the government of the Republic of Serbia, which today presents in its full capacity together with the programme that will implement both strategic objectives and operational objectives, Mrs Ana Brnabic had the opportunity to give us in her exposé, showed that all these six strategic goals should be implemented in an adequate way in a very short period of time, in impossible conditions, because the information, problems from hour to hour, and problems need to be addressed without delay. Today, we have 1,200 citizens of Serbia who are infected with the coronary virus, which is the problem not only of Serbia, the region, but of the whole world. We're responding adequately, quickly, efficiently, effectively, and all we have to show as a state is that we're going to have results that are measurable. We now have measurable results when it comes to the previous government and previous composition of Ms. Ana Brnabic, who has so far led the government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about measuring results, the best results are shown through public finances. Through public finances, we were able to see in 2012 that some previous governments led an irresponsible policy towards the Republic of Serbia, and what it looks like today since Alexander Vucic and SNS took responsibility and what the government of the Continuity of Ms. Ana Brnabić looked like and how many problems we have encountered throughout this trip that the Government has since 2012, so in 2014 until today. If we say that the budget deficit then, in 2012, was 6.2% of the total GDP, and today is 0.2%, then you see what difference of concept I'm talking about in the politics of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, commercial loans were raised and raised in order to pay salaries and pensions and employees in education and in health and in the state administration and pensioners, and today simply on the basis of real growth and the development of economic business activities, you have paid wages and pensions, which have since 2014, since the implementation of economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, slowly, as far as possible, increased. That's why we have a stable cash register today, and that's why we don't have to worry about those who receive salaries from the budget. What should be said is that the better standard of living was always the aim of the SNS, as well as Mrs. Ana Brnabic when she took over the government, after those difficult times led by Mr. Vukic, and today we have answers to the Kovid-19 pandemic through economic measures, and it has proved that the Serbia that first did so, therefore, brought economic measures and adopted them in April of the month, while they were all closed for the pandemic of Corona, has shown that in an adequate manner at the right time, it has just brought these measures and given support from Serbia's budget. Someone here said we're facing a war economy. That's right. In times of war economy, mostly budget giving. At that time, the market is very limited and mainly the state intervenes on the market. However, somewhere through this state interventionism we managed to keep somewhere that the market exists, and that is of great importance to Serbia and that is why we can plan big growth rates for next year exactly so that the whole economic impact we experienced in this year can be stopped and that European countries that will go with an economic downturn of 10%, and these strongest 6% such as Germany and England, we simply end this year with 1% and 0.5%, and the high goal set for this government is to end with a zero when it comes to a total economic downturn. These are high goals, and these goals show in fact why the government is so conjecture with this composition. The human resources proposed here today show that people with really impressive biography. For those who have been and worked in this government since 2014 and 2016, they show in fact that they can deal with other resolutions for which they have been replaced, and that is why we say that ambitious goals and high goals can only be worn by those who are truly able to deal adequately with this business and to fight for the state. In the end, I would say that we are really taking measures like this, which we and the objectives that we have set through these six strategic goals and through these operational objectives, which we have heard from the prime minister today, that is to develop high technologies, force ourselves simply to find a step, shoulder to shoulder with developed industries such as those that are really developing so-called. 4.0 Industrial revolution, to deal with artificial intelligence and digitisation in all segments of society, we create equal chances for all citizens, but for open social dialogue, here we show essentially that Serbia is going through a path that is simply unstoppable when it comes to some members of opposition parties who do not understand where Serbia has gone over the past seven years. They will understand the moment they really talk to Serbian citizens about what they want and what goals Serbian citizens want to achieve when it comes to Serbia's future and the future of their children. The moment they face their own not only past, but their ideas to come before the citizens of Serbia, and before the elections, they will realize in fact how much both SNS and Mr Aleksandar Vukic and Ana Brnabic, who runs the government of the Republic of Serbia, were far-sighted when it comes to the goals for the development of the Republic of Serbia. A society of equal opportunities, an open dialogue society for us are an imperative in the future, EU entry, a debate on European integration, talks and the fight for transformation and reform of the economic power of the Republic of Serbia, and further progress is those goals that are running for today's election and that is why I will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u404	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Brnabic, just over three years ago you presented your first government, your first candidates for ministers, and then you promised us something. You promised it would be the government of continuity with the first two governments of the then prime minister and the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. We believed in your promise. Before I continue my discussion, I must ask one question both to you and to the MPs, but also to the citizens of Serbia. If you hadn't kept that promise you gave us just over three years ago, would Serbia be able to cope with that first wave of Corona virus? I'm saying you wouldn't. The kind of Serbia we found in 2012, completely devastated, with a completely decomposed economic system and a completely decommissioned traffic infrastructure, Serbian citizens would be victims of such a pandemic. Thanks to these reforms launched by Aleksandar Vukic in 2012, we began to restore Serbia and to create an economy that corresponds to Serbia's citizens, an economy that will create social equality and stability, an economy that will create economic stability, an economy that will create political stability and a political reputation in the international community. We also achieved fiscal stability through the reform of the economy and if it hadn't been for these reforms in the area of economy any fight against the Coronus virus would not have been possible. It only proved that you did the right thing when you promised us and followed the reforms that Alexander Vukic started. Don't be surprised that the former regime for every factory opened by the president or you claim to be bringing slave owners to Serbia, while Serbian citizens are not workers but slaves. Don't be surprised that every time we open a section of the highway or start building the highway, they attack you, attack President Vukic, then Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic that the funds are provided with unfavourable loans and that a lot of money will be stolen when building that highway. The former regime, the former tycoon regime, cannot stand that Serbia is progressing and gaining its reputation in the international community. They never cared about that reputation because they would fight for it while they were in power. They only care about how to get the state money, how to abuse it, and how to make more than Serbia a valley of the unhappy. We now have a new ministry to be my former counterpart, Gordana Comic, minister. If I didn't turn out to be against dialogue, but I would love to, since I've known Mrs. Komic for twenty years, we've never been on the same side, when it comes to state interests, I've often worked very well with Mrs. Comic, what will Mrs. Comic talk to Gilas or Šolak about in that dialogue? What they're going to promise, what they're going to do, what they're going to say -- hey, now we're going to steal a little less or promise -- here, we're not going to steal another, honest pioneer word. Well, humanity will get into another galaxy before that happens. I wish you success in this field too, Mrs. Comic, but let's get back to what this government is waiting for. We have a further battle with the pandemic that has hit the Republic of Serbia and the struggle to preserve our economic and economic system in the Republic of Serbia. We've resisted so far. We resisted because we had been spending very conservatively the funds that we had collected from the tax kept by the latter, and I hope that future Minister Sinisa Mali, and we have managed in a certain way to preserve our economic system and the first task of this government is a further struggle to preserve the economic system and improve it, because, as we learned at the beginning of the pandemic, there is no health care without developed economy, no respect for the international without developed economy, no protected people without a developed economy, and I believe when you have managed to achieve all this, that you will also in the future have such results. The former, tycoon regime, what else to say about them, I guess because of all these results that we had to preserve Serbian citizens, regardless of religious or national membership, which now some are trying to challenge through cheap political points, they have one of the lowest possible behaviours in the human species, which is drawing targets at the head of the president of the Republic of Serbia, drawing targets for his family members, I guess they'll never be in a position to rob citizens of the Republic of Serbia again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u406	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The next according to the statement is Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u407	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, candidates for the composition of the future government and MPs at the very beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that almost half of the future composition will be women, members of a more beautiful sex, which I think is very important for the more significant involvement of women in social and political flows. It is certainly important to assume very significant functions in society itself, but on the other hand, we certainly expect them to justify the trust they are told by their work, efforts and efforts. Certainly the most significant resource and what we would consider to be a newspaper and refreshment in this government is the formation of three new ministries. So, the ministry of care for the village is a very important portfolio, and MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation party have been very often in their discussions in the past term and have talked about the needs of the village, as well as the difficulties that people living in the village face. On the other hand, the issue of establishing a ministry of human and minority rights and social dialogue is also a very important issue, and in the principle and programme of the Justice and Reconciliation Party stands for dialogue, reconciliation and general social tolerance. The Ministry of Family Care and Demography is essential to society as the stability of a society depends on a stable and quality family. In her exposé, the prime minister spoke about the programme of action of the government's future and a very significant emphasis on the health system's improvement segment. What would be very important in the future work of the new composition of the Government is to make sure that the improvement of the health system is uniform, as far as possible, to say widely and in this sense work on the territory of the entire country. I will specify in particular our request, therefore, the request of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the need of the Sandzak citizens, but also that part of Serbia for the establishment of a clinical centre in Novi Pazar. The health system, unfortunately, the past crisis has shown, is not up to the task and due to poor leadership, but also the management of the health system in Novi Pazar, we unfortunately had a very large mortality by our fellow citizens. What we could point out as a lack of a future government call is certainly a fact that we do not have representatives of minorities, although we do know that even one third of the population in Serbia is a minority, although if we go back to some previous practices we can see that we once had representatives of minorities directly in the government, but that they essentially did not represent the interests of their people. I think we should give this government a chance at a future summit, and we will certainly continue to form support based on the work itself and the concrete results that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u408	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u409	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, Prime Minister and Prime Minister's candidate, I listened carefully to Ana Brnabić's exposé and, as MP of the SDPS, I would like to say at the beginning of my presentation that the plan that you mandated is the best confirmation that the SDPS has made the right decision when it took responsibility to work together with our coalition partner, committed and diligently, to contribute to the progress of our society and to address the many problems that the daily has made for us, not only local and regionally, but also globally, and these are the problems facing planetary modern society and, of course, much more developed countries of the world. Serbia is a small country and its strength lies in common, divergence and mutual respect and respect, which this government certainly recognises and therefore there is no reason why our goals remain unachieved. We from the SDPS will work hard to make plans for the future government as fast as possible and at the very beginning I want to give full support to your future work. As we know, the government is an extended hand of citizens who chose to represent their rights and interests in state institutions and do so on their behalf the best. Despite the difficulties the previous government has faced over the past period, the people can recognize. With great understanding, the citizens saw both the effort and the work and the pawnage, and therefore in the last elections they reiterated their trust to our coalition to form this government. This obliges not only you, therefore, not only the Government, but also us MPs, to be even more efficient, more responsible and dedicated in our work in the coming period and to work together through legislative activity, but also through Parliament's control function, to achieve even better results together. Achieving citizens' trust, listening to citizens and recognising their needs, the prime minister decided to introduce new people into the new government, to form new ministries, to keep the people checked, to raise the quality of government's work to an even higher level. The proposed changes and changes in the composition of the Government are also in line with the needs of society. The new government raises a scale of responsibility to citizens and I believe it will be even closer to them and that its work will be further improved by excellent personnel solutions. The choice of an extra-party figure shows both maturity and determination in the government's most important economic portfolio, but also the willingness to bring people to the ministerial, or key positions in the government. Despite the difficulties this government faced in the previous period, it has, in fact, achieved better and better results. In some areas, we have progressed much faster than much richer and more developed countries of Europe. The choice of new ministers is another decisive step to improve and provide Serbian citizens with the expected quality of life in order to bring our citizens' living standards closer and closer to European standards. Looking at the global level and what problems other countries of the world are facing, we have managed to preserve both economic and monetary stability, to improve the conditions and work of health workers who unfortunately were hit most during the previous period due to Kovid 19, the government has managed to keep the pandemic in some contexts far less than in the region and in some EU countries, not to mention the United States and some other countries and the pandemic situation in them. The power of the previous one, and hopefully these future governments too, lies in that it is not and will not stop or give up to preserve its citizens by making decisions that are sometimes unpopular, but that certainly make good results. Therefore, it should not be doubted that this government will know in its further work that it is estimating and resolutely ignoring all challenges and difficulties. We all know what problems and challenges the government has faced so far and how it has fought decisively and struggled to preserve both the integrity and sovereignty of our country and should not doubt the continuity of its work and in that field. The previous one understood very well, and I believe that this one will also continue the accelerated path towards EU membership. I know that this government will be able to recognize both the work and the desire and the effort of all of us, and that we will enrich the lives of our fellow citizens with common forces. At the end of my presentation, I would like to thank all the citizens of Serbia who have shown us confidence in another mandate, and I believe that they too will be much more part of the driving force of society in general and the future progress of Serbia, and I believe that citizens recognise how close they are to the programme of the future government and that only with their help can we expect progress in each area. I would not particularly and individually like to look at the work of some ministries in the past period, because I believe that the government can only be recognized as a whole and can act even more effectively, which will naturally give it new capacity and new enthusiasm for further work. At the very end, I want to wish once again for happiness and success in further work and future members of the government and for you, Prime Minister Brnabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u410	Thank you. The word has an Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u411	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the Republic of Serbia, dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs, I am also pleased to be able to address you in front of the SVM parliamentary group, which, in the day to vote, means today, will vote in favour of this new government and ministers' programme. I'd like to share with you a few very important items we've heard from the program of Madam Prime Minister. For the past four years, I have worked with the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and on this occasion I have had the opportunity to participate in what Mrs. Brnabic has been talking about what has been done in the field of education over the past four years. Namely, this reform that was launched, i.e. to be introduced in 2018, I am sure that it will show results, namely it is so deep and permeates all areas and all levels of education, as well as education, preschool education and education, that I am sure that this will bring results. I would like to remind myself that minority education in the Republic of Serbia is based on two significant pillars. One of these pillars is the right to education in the native language, and another significant pillar is the mastering of Serbian as an immaterial language, Serbian as a state language. The Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians is one party that has been behind each other for years. We now have in the legislation every predisposition to have minority education, quality at the same level as it is offered in Serbian. Here, just an example works, during the Kovid crisis between March and June of the month, lessons recorded in Serbian to provide teaching at a distance, these lessons were recorded in all eight languages of national minorities, as well as in Hungarian, which in our case significantly and with national councils, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development worked on it. Of course, there's a lot more to do. I am very glad that Mrs. Brnabic emphasized the digitisation of schools, because it certainly started a big deal, and I also had opportunities with then state secretary, now Minister Tatjana Matic, to work together to digitise school support in terms of digitisation. Serbian as an immaterial language is certainly one of the important elements and I found it very interesting that, in my first term as a national MP, I asked the Minister at the time, what is happening, and how the Serbian language will be reformed, and the subject, along with all other cases, was introduced into the reformed cases. The next area that is also very important for education in the languages of national minorities, and this was also mentioned during the exposés, which was the recognition of diplomas, higher education diplomas acquired abroad and we in the past period have witnessed the formation of the ENIK-NARIK centre in recent years, which was one significant step, and then the Qualifications Agency, which was also a significant step. Now we only have one little detail to work on, and that's the study programs, so on. a short cycle. It's the only thing that isn't perfect for now, it doesn't work perfectly, but I'm sure the government in the new mandate, i.e. the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, will solve it. What I would also like to point out is that I am glad that you listed both art schools and the reform that will be done in that area. In fact, a co-worker in digital media is a new profession that should develop and I sincerely hope that Subotic High School and High School in Senta will also get a chance for this. Finally, to confirm once again, the SVM parliamentary group will support the programme, support the government of the Republic of Serbia and we will give you full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Vicek. The word is Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u413	Dear Chairman, Mrs Brnabic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and, of course, future members of the government. I listened very carefully to your exposés today, I listened to it carefully and last time you lied to him, and for now, the first time that seems to me to have been a more solemn atmosphere, so this may have been the result of the crown, but perhaps the consequence of this very continuity that we've been talking about all along. It's kind of this, I think, work atmosphere. I think in the meantime, you've really become a real politician. Whether it's good or not we'll see, we'll see at the end of this new government's mandate, we'll see, after all, what will be the results of the ministers you've chosen, which, of course, we will support. But since I'm a politician, I hope you don't get me wrong. I really expect this new government to fill most of the exposé, it's impossible to fill the whole, let's be objective at the beginning, it's like the budget when you're building both a plan and a business programme, but that we can really do a lot, I think we can. Before I look back at the thing that's like PUPS to us -- the "Three P" parliamentary group most importantly, I just have to remind myself, and I'd like to take the opportunity, because I have a rare opportunity to have all the ministers in front of me, that I, as a woman who's been leading four years already, have been a very successful Public Business "Serbs", which I'm really proud of, because we haven't taken a single dinar from the state so far, except that we've been properly filling the budget, which can be confirmed by Minister Mali, who hears with me neatly in October of the month to see when we're going to pay what we're supposed to pay the state. I have to admit that I didn't exactly have the support of ministers in this period, and I hope that this government that you've chosen now, with so many women in place, will be more expedient than the previous, however satisfied or dissatisfied with that work. Personally, I am now really saying this as Mira Petrovic, director of the Public Enterprise "Post of Serbia", and I will, of course, return to my parliamentary mandate and position. I am personally pleased with Mrs. Tanja Matic's choice, because it was a perfect collaboration with her. I think it'll be a lot easier when she runs a ministry that's most important for my company. As I'm glad we have a new minister in the economy, because that's very important to me too, the Justice Minister, because whenever I need an expert opinion, and I don't get something, I don't know why, so let's just say I'll interpret that you think I can handle all these problems on my own. Immoderately, but I think it's true for you in government, for you women in government, we're not going to solve anything by having 11 women, if you don't have all the support of male colleagues and, of course, the president of the state for all of this. In my company I mostly have women as associates, in key positions are women, I have a single director who runs IT, but I think it's simply a matter of circumstances, I think we're doing a little bit more expediently, we're working faster because we have a lot of things to do. We have houses, we have children, we have husbands, we have our own jobs that we really want to do in the best possible way. What I have to point out for the previous government, not to be that there's something I wanted to criticize right now, but that's what my colleagues were talking about, it's really a picture that we see now when we see Belgrade being built. The cranes are everywhere, the roads are done, whatever it is, I know when I get in the car, when we go somewhere, it's nice now. The only thing I can suggest, as one aesthetic part of the whole story, which is what the Chinese do, is I've had a chance to see, every crane just decorates the lights and it looks like a million arrows that are in the sky, so we could do that, too, to make our city a little more beautiful and simply see how much Serbia has become a construction site. Now I'm going to go back to what is most important to us as a parliamentary group, which is actually economic development, plans that were made at the end of the year 2025. What's important is that all that we've been through since 2014, all the heavy measures that we've all had to bring together, bear the burden of never going back to it, actually in 2025, to pay 900 euros at least, to get to a 450-euro pension and to keep the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and our president Milan Krkobic agreed that pensioners never again come into the situation to become a social category, that pensions can't be less than 50% of the salary. I'll remind you, yesterday or the day before when we talked here, one of our colleagues said that, unfortunately, there are a lot of older people. I think he's got it all wrong. The goal is to make as many older people as possible, but the problem is that we have as much talent as possible and that as many children are born. And there's really a lot to do. I think it's a segment that we need to focus on, because everything we do, if we don't have kids, is pointless. What is important to us, what is important to our voters, which is important, in the end, to all citizens of Serbia, is that their salaries are regular, that their pensions are safe, regular, that they are constantly developing, that people's standards are improving. We also fought in the city during some period when we were part of the government at the time for many things that filled the pensioners with quality of life, of which I will remind that in Belgrade all pensioners older than 65 years have free transportation thanks to us. And then, together with our coalition partners, we fought for pregnant women to receive the full amount of pay during the maintenance of pregnancy, and then we transferred it here in 2012 and that was the first thing we did together with our fellow Members, but on our initiative, and we amended the Health Protection Act and made it possible for all women in Serbia. We've opened clubs for old faces, which weren't just, you know, sit down and play chess. No, I don't. I personally took part in it, even though I was chief of staff. We bought painting stalls, we bought shelves, and we made really libraries, we decorated, so we made those spaces nicer. I think the goal of all of us is that when we get to some retirement days, we have enough health and health, and that's why it's very important for us to invest in health care, that we have enough power to have the longer period that's ahead of us to experience as much quality as possible. Since we're talking about digitization, which now at the time of the crown showed that it was a psychic step back then, but we Pups were also psychic ten years ago, when we organized in Belgrade and the first courses for IT, where we had students who were over 88-89 years old. So, there are a lot of things that we can do to the common forces, we have to put priorities. It's not easy, I know. I don't want to talk about foreign policy at all. I don't want to talk about foreign policy at all. I don't want to talk about the crown that's disrupted us all. But I think that it's not such a difficult time in front of us. It's just that we all need to give our maximum of what we're doing and that we really have a dialogue between us. I've known Mrs. Comic here from Parliament since 2012, but I must admit I was surprised by that poster you had at the time of the campaign. I'm kind of not doing it with you, as I'm not going along with the mothers of the children, so I think, okay, you've had some, in my opinion, kicks your personal, but you've always been for dialogue, I've read and what Mr. Chanak said to you, all the recommendations you've got, but I think we really need to take care of the way we communicate with each other. And painting and conversations and in general some relationship between us here must be at some level, because we are still elected here and representatives of Serbian citizens. I really wish you and we, as a PUPS parliamentary group, will vote, of course, tonight for the election of this government and give all possible support that we can give so that you can achieve a good portion of the exposé that the prime minister made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u414	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u415	Thank you. Dear President, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected Mrs. Brnabic and candidates for members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, listening to your exposé, Mrs. Brnabic, as well as what it says in this programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have had the opportunity to meet, I think it is more than clear that Serbia is on the right track. When you look at these figures and you hear everything you've told us today, and what the public of Serbia has a chance to hear, it's quite clear, and to see where Serbia was yesterday and what it is today and what's going to be tomorrow. As a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I cannot be satisfied when passing through Serbia, otherwise with our beautiful country, I see how much everything has been done and what has been done over the past few years. It's rarely a pleasure, I don't know if people understand that enough, but seeing built-up traffic stations, realized infrastructure projects, see if we're connected from north to south or east to other countries, that we have new, modernized traffic. That still means something. We are a small and relatively poor country. Look at Bulgaria and Romania, EU members, since 2007, who has travelled there can be sure that countries that are members of the EU do not have the kind of traffic that our Serbia has. It's saying something about us, it's saying something about this government, it's saying something about this coalition. No, something, it says a lot. You know, man can't be satisfied when he read these figures on GDP growth in the past four years, from 2016 to 2020, about reducing the unemployment rate in Serbia, about the participation of public debt in GDP, which has been reduced from 67.8% to below 50%, to 48.4%. That should be read and understood. It tells us what serious measures have been taken in years behind us to be in this position today and that we can talk to others. I'm glad we had a chance to hear everything the government is going to do. Good, President Vukic mentioned six basic goals. It's a good thing you've drawn that out, and that's what you should talk about all the time, because those six goals that are mentioned as the government's basic goals, which means there are more, but these are carrying, along with the structure of the government that's here today, technically, but also with people. It is a guarantee that we will achieve good results. I dare say this is the government of continuity, the government of progress, the government of reform and the government of development. Serbia is becoming a developed, stable country, both politically and economically. When I say a stable political, you know that the composition of this parliament has not chosen the ruling coalition, nor any of the political parties in Serbia, the composition of this parliament has been chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and they are as the only and final assessor of the values of each of us. Citizens should always choose those they consider to best meet their goals or their expectations. In talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences with opposition representatives already after two meetings, it was clear that the boycott was some means of political struggle. Then it began to discuss, of course, that there is no atmosphere in Serbia, there is no dialogue, there are no conditions even though all the laws were passed before 2008. None has been changed except, as far as I know, the Law on the financing of political parties and there are reduced funds for political parties. But, let me say, the voices from here then get support from individuals out there. Serbia has always had those who don't think well of it and then it's easy to find like-minded people about it. Strengthening Serbia's international position is terribly important. European integration, negotiations with Pristina are goals that absolutely need to be met. Before that, let me, however, in order of goals all are important, but this first goal that is mentioned sets the protection of citizens' rights is something that deserves special apostrophe. You've seen, the whole world is affected by this pandemic of the Covid-19 virus and no one has a solution for this pandemic. A few months ago, when we confirmed the emergency decision, I then quoted Jørgen Habermas and his thesis that we had long since had so much knowledge of ignorance. Nothing's changed today. We don't even know why this is happening today, even though we're applying different measures. It has been shown that social distance, unfortunately or fortunately, is the only measure that is some sort of guarantee that Kovid will not expand. What we know is that the government of the Republic of Serbia did a great job, that we did everything we needed to protect the citizens, and all categories of citizens. I think it's very logical and smart that both the president and you here today as Prime Minister have apostrophe of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as the first goal. European integration, that should be our priority. True, but I saw that you wrote it on page 20 of this exposé, and that should be clearly said to the citizens of Serbia – the speed and outcome of integration does not depend on us. We are fully competent, both administratively and professionally, to meet the standards set before us, but everyone should know that the condition of all conditions is Chapter 35 – normalisation of relations with Kosovo. That should be made loud and clear. If it hadn't been for President Vukic in the past few years who had changed the conduct of certain states and what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was doing with recognition, 18 countries have withdrawn recognition or suspended recognition of Kosovo. Don't let us have the illusion, at least I don't. I don't know if you share my opinion, but neither the EU nor the United States would react to appoint special representatives for the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. No, but they would wait for things to come to an end, for us to quietly recognise Kosovo and then say -- that's how it had to be, that's the logical trail of events. You already know the policy of some countries of the West towards us. We have a lot of enemies inside the EU. It is not unknown that all of these are main to us, to say the Germans dictate, and it is known not only since yesterday but also today, and unfortunately tomorrow. The condition of all conditions is the dialogue with Pristina. However, I think our state leadership is making very smart moves. We're strengthening co-operation with our friends, but we're opening up new friendships. It's a good thing I have excellent co-operation with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, sooner or later that problem will be solved at the UN Security Council. As permanent veto members, they will have the opportunity to say something on our behalf, and few countries in the world the size of Serbia and the number of citizens such as Serbia have such powerful friends as China and the Russian Federation. There are few statesmen in the world like President Vukic who had the opportunity to meet with President Siya so many times or with President Putin. You know, in the political system that exists in China, the personification of relations with one country, when the president of that country meets with the president of the country. It's a finished story, and China is now the most powerful country in the world. In the West, everyone says globalisation has been stopped because of the pandemic, and China has found the first solutions to pop out of this pandemic and it seems to be the only country with a positive growth rate this year in the world. There is an undivided belief in the West that the Chinese economy has become the world's first economy. I'm not saying this to glorify China, but to say that having such a friend makes sense and how. It is good that President Vukic signed the Washington Agreement and with a country like the United States should have good relations. I'm glad that our leadership, to say the same thing, has shown wisdom in this regard, because those two points of the agreement concerning the distribution of supply choices and the quality of communication, as they said, have a meaning for the company that acquires telecommunications equipment. You know, I found here in your exposé on page 31, it will be Mrs. Mihajlovic's future job, a brilliant sentence -- to finish the Turkish course, to connect Bulgaria and Hungary through Serbia, to provide natural gas as a source of supply for Serbia. The second sentence is even better. It responds to this diversification of the gas connector supply source between Serbia and Bulgaria. That's what it says about this diversifying supply source. So, we're going to do everything in the agreement, but we're going to protect our national and national goals. First of all, Vučićev said the second day after returning from Washington that 5G equipment, of course "Huaway" is a reliable partner and that this does not apply to the Chinese company and that we will continue to co-operate with the Chinese company, of course, in the interests of both countries. The quality of the lives of citizens -- all that this government does is point to it. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a good move by establishing these new three ministries. I don't want to waste words here, I talked about it and when it was the Ministry Act, but I think that care about family, demographics, question of human and minority rights, dialogue, very important, something that we should cultivate and, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture, because our villages remain empty. Let me just say a few words about education in the end. I think he deserves both the subject and the cheek. If you have noticed, two chapters in negotiations with the EU are temporarily closed, science and education, 25 and 26, open and closed 2016 and 2017. So, if there is a need, we will, of course, implement everything that is part of the EU into our education system and into the system of science. Given the shortness of time, because objectively, the president has set out the mandate of this government, it should do everything possible for this government and in the field of education to do what is necessary, to make our system better, to be more quality, to be more inclusive, to have a link between economy and education system. What you mentioned as a good diameter is still done, absolutely correct, and it should be nurtured, but it should be applied other things that are possible in this period. I think it's a great thing for the educated Republika Srpska system for Serbia that we will have a unique education system from April next year. Then we'll know exactly how our system works and then we'll be able to increase strategic steps. Then it won't be an expression of the will of some interested group, or of someone who remembered the brilliant ideas. No, that's how our system works. We need to make that kind of move. I think it's a great thing and it's something that encourages, especially with all the other parameters that are mentioned and spoken of, Serbia 2025. So, with the strengthening of the economy and increasing living standards, of course, the personal income of employees. In the end, I wanted to say something else, this is about what might be done by my colleague Popovic, since he was involved in part of this job, the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development report, says that 97% of the results of our research work are published scientific papers, and only 2.3% of the patent. This situation has to change, because it's frantic for society like ours, a little bit, but I really don't think we're too smart, but I think we can think, we have such a small number of patents. You know, one study from Australia in 2016 showed that when you compare the amount of money invested and the results, or what the author is in an educated system, it shows then in 2016, Serbia, believe it or not, was in the first place, which is saying, with these modest investments that we had excellent results. If so, then you should not allow patent and technical solutions to be only 2.3% of that export. Connecting researchers, businesses and sciences, colleges, research centres, institutes should work with the economy. This should be linked, because it is Serbia's interest, because only innovation can bring, to say in the economic part and new solutions, better Serbia. I mean, Mrs. Brnabic, and you should say that in the end, I say that on behalf of the parliamentary group, you should also commend your choice of people who will represent this government. That's what a few people were talking about today. I think you've made a good combination of experience, knowledge that exists and new energy, because that fits what I said at the beginning, that this is government and continuity, but also reform and development. We need new people for this time we're in. Serbian citizens expect it from us and none of us want to disappoint them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u416	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u417	President-in-Office, respected prime minister and future members of the government, distinguished fellow MPs, I am reporting as the People's MP of the Serbian Progressive Party and president of the Health Committee, but before I leave with an essential exhibition, I would like to commend Parliament's work, the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the previous meeting. Why am I saying this? Because I personally believe that the National Assembly in the previous assembly was exposed to outrageous pressures. We were all witnesses in parliament, various physical abuses and every other attack on the MPs, especially the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. I am truly proud to say that we have all succeeded together in preserving the spirit of parliamentaryism and preserving tolerance in this House. Therefore, the distinguished prime minister, Mrs. Brnabic, in the sector, that is, you will get one great fighter. Also, what I want to say about these events is that brutal physical abuses and moral lessons have been trying to share some people who have been robbing this troubled country for decades or over a decade, or those who have tried to force themselves into parliament or a motor saw in the RTS building, or those who have shamelessly changed their nationality to sit in congregation benches, but it is the people who bring judgment and the people have given judgment in previous elections, unequivocally and said what they think of such ones. I can say, in essence, that I am proud of the fact that I personally believe that the Serbian Progressive Party has significantly raised a scale of self-burning seriousness and commitment in the work related to the functioning of the entire state apparatus over the past period. I was doing an analysis of what the government's plans were like before 2012, what they came down to, and more importantly, what was the realization of the promised and planned. I have seen that essentially these plans consisted of certain general guidelines, and as far as realisation is concerned, gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, we are all together aware of what the realization was because in 2012, we found a wasteland. Today's exposés I see not only as one extensive sublimation done, I also view it as a realistic projection of the objectives in the term of office. I say real because looking at the exposés of the same prime minister, and the previous governments, I saw that most of these goals were practically achieved and that there were no epidemics and monsters that came to the world, I was convinced that this projection would indeed be 100%. What I would especially like to praise is the determination and programme commitment not only of the mandate, but also of the entire government under the leadership of the future prime minister, today's prime minister, that it is essentially going towards reforms in every state segment. That's what our country needed, that's what we've long expected over the past decade. Now we're taking it easy. I wouldn't individually stay in areas where the biggest shifts were made, but I'd like to apostrophe, for example, a great success in dual education, which is very significant. Of course, I'm talking about high school dual education, high school, just as I recall, the law should come into force, but we brought it in, but essentially, it's those qualitative shifts that our people and our country need. This is what happens for the first time in Serbia, that practically the market is setting a course in high school or tomorrow in college, that the market is tailoring a profile, that the market is tailoring the number of performers, or the number of students of children to be enrolled, and that's something that's really for pride. As for health care, or my area, I was, by the way, much more discussed and talked about the big, to say the results a few days ago. When I tell the results, I mean everything we've plotted both as a crisis headquarters and as different bodies dealing with this problem. I'm talking about medical equipment. I'm talking not only about masks, gloves, respirators, I'm talking about everything that's necessary to make the system work, talk about organization. But now I'm going to talk more about this second segment, which is no doubt as important as the fight against this monster, which is the continuation of the construction of clinical centres and the continuation of investment in the infrastructure of health institutions, i.e. the health system. So, continue to start, and I very much commend it, because in the exposé I heard one moment, one piece of information, which practically bought me, which is big health plans, because investment in health is an investment in the future. Also, I think that the efforts of the new government, not only of the health ministry, but of the new government as a whole, should certainly be to reduce the waiting list for appropriate operations, lift the waiting list for radiation, also invest in the chamber and continue investment in equipment. If we sublime all these goals, I think we're going to get not just one fantastic health care system, but to get a maximum-satisfaction patient. Of course, all these plans are real only because we have such financial parameters. I remember well the exposés of the current president, then the prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, when we set out for those painful and necessary and essential reforms in the economy and finance sector. Well, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, these reforms were necessary for reasons, it is seen today, which today our economy is much more resilient, significantly stronger, precisely for these reasons, because we managed to achieve this status through reform, even in these times of medical disasters, such as this epidemic, we see that Serbia's economy remains firmly on its feet, in Europe is the best or among the better. What I would like to say at the end of my presentation is my expectation, that I expect from both the prime minister and this government, in addition to professionalism in work and work, hard work, to expect from them, and to ask as a national MP one of the highest levels of patriotism and patriotism, to seek maximum commitment, a sense of belonging and a feeling of love for the state of Serbia, and to ask that people, that citizens be first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u418	Thank you, colleague Laketić. The next is MP Muamer Bacevac. Comrade, before I give you my word, one small note that your MP group has two minutes and 46 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u419	Responsible and true politics is always a congregation, always a servant of the economy. Where there is no political stability, where there is no rule of law, where there is a minimum of corruption, zero corruption, there is no development, there is no satisfied citizen, there is no rich citizen, and that is our goal. Gentlemen, everyone who brings you back to the past, everyone who brings you back to political instability, everyone who opens you up with angry wounds from the near past, they don't think well of you. They don't think well of Serbian citizens, they don't think well of us, they think of their ratings and through national minority issues that they are present in the media. It's an easy way, and it's a difficult way to care for a worker, fight corruption, invest in education, good health care. That's what the SDP does. We're defending nationalism. Gentlemen, there's no integrity in people who have a lot of national drilling, there's no great education, there's no desire for another and different things to be better. They are not interested in the citizens of Sandzak, Serbia or the autonomy of Vojvodina, or the autonomy of the Forest, they are interested in a better life. It's imperative and it's our fight. I was encouraged by the talks of predecessors these days, and I was often uncomfortable that in this way national, minority, human issues are being misused. Serbia is a country where human rights are satisfactory. That's what I'm saying. There's a problem, but believe me... Did any of you hear that one of you is offended, pushed by national belongings? Well, that's down to a minimum. Well, this is a country to brag about. It's something we're proud of. Why open these topics that do not bring good to our citizens? I heard earlier that some of my neighborhoods were dissatisfied, previous speakers, health care in the state of Serbia. Gentlemen, we haven't had an Italian scenario. Gentlemen, we've received every patient at the Clinical Center in Belgrade. That tells you someone who's been infected in the hospital by the crown and who's been positive for 31 days and who's now come from the Clinical Center from the categorization hall. Thank you very much, Minister of Health, 180 new young medical workers are employed in Novi Pazar. I want you to continue on that. Thank you for the angio-sala, that's the result. Thank you, and the results of our political engagement and our medical training will be seen by the Sandzak citizens who are the grace of this and the future clinical hospital center that we have planned and provided funds for its construction. In the end, I want to underline, since we are running out of time, and I had a lot to say, reacting only to what I hear, that we want continuity, that we want a good, developed state and that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, and also we, the Sanjay representatives in it, will work very hard on it and, above all, I, as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, will raise these rights, because they need to be kept working, but also for the equal representation of national minorities in the Assembly. (President: colleague, I ask you to bring an end. I would like to conclude with one thank you for your attention and for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u420	Thanks, buddy. The People's MP Attila Juhas has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u421	Thank you very much. The esteemed chairman, respected vice-president of the National Assembly, respected fellow MPs, respected Mrs Ana Brnabic, the SVM parliamentary group will support voting the election of the new government and its programme for several reasons. Some of the reasons our colleague, the president of our Parliament group, Balint Pastor, presented in his presentation, and some of them I will try during this remaining period of time. I will, first of all, look back on the topic of agriculture and rural development, but first let me highlight some of the results achieved in this already slowly former assembly of the Ministry of Agriculture. We worked on these results together, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the present minister, and I think they are important for all of us, primarily for registered agricultural holdings and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The accredited IPARD programme has solved the problem of registering agricultural connections to machinery, has been amended and the Transport Safety Act has been amended. I think that by amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, this resource, our treasure, in all these legal acts, is protected with sufficient emphasis and that it is possible for all our agricultural producers and young people and these older ones to be able to deal with this activity. One very important act has been adopted, it is a rule on possibilities, that is, one regulation that gives the possibility for primary products to be processed and that one registered family agricultural land for the first time in the history of the Food Safety Act, which gives the possibility to amend and supplement the law, can process and place, directly sell food to the consumer. This is an exceptional step towards the possibility that agricultural producers and landowners can survive and have their own development in the country. We have a mission left, very important, which is what fellow Pastor has set aside, it's a PIO problem. I hope that the next meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will, in the shortest time period, submit an amendment to the Law on Mandatory Pension Insurance which will allow PIO's obligation to pay PIO of agricultural land to be primarily proportionate to its income and economic size of the land. I think these are important tasks and important results that have been done during this past period of time. As far as the plans are concerned, I think it is of paramount importance that young agricultural producers continue to be supported. We must continue to help all the associations of farmers, strengthen them as much as possible, support family agricultural holdings, adopt quality measures of agrarian policy to strengthen agricultural holdings and thus make further development possible. What matters is continuity. There's been a lot of talk here about continuity. I think it's the right choice, I'm not saying it because I was Mr. Nedimovic's associate, but because we had an example in the past period that in 10 years we had 10 ministers. This continuity will allow us to solve this problem and find solutions for others. Dialogue, there was talk here about dialogue in the past and the previous session. This dialogue will enable us to have a quality dialogue with agricultural producers, to bring about the right quality measures of agrarian policy that will affect that we have a good system of incentives in agriculture and rural development. In the end, let me point out the importance of this new ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture. I live in the country, I come from Nova Ninja, from the municipality of Nova Ninja from the Centralbanat County. I know exactly what the problem is in the country and what the possibilities are. It is not only to help the village and not only the village of agriculture, but it is also new jobs and investment in infrastructure, because you see the structure of agricultural land in Serbia between four and five hectares. If new plants are opened for the processing of self-employment in the country, it will also be possible for factories and new investments to be placed more towards rural and rural areas and not just towards cities. I think we'll be able to solve a great deal of the farmers and their citizens. I would once again point out, support and vote for the Government's proposal. We will support the new government in front of our SVM parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u422	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u423	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, Mrs. Brnabic, distinguished candidates for future ministers and first citizens and citizens of Serbia, is an important task ahead of us and I have somehow had a planned discussion, the truth, in some other direction than what I will now use. I've been a little inspired by my colleagues and maybe they've returned to one topic that I don't want to deal with, not that it's not important, but it's just that I think of it as a topic over all the issues. Your exposé is substantial, it shows that you intend to continue only faster and more decisively, to realize all goals that are not small and most important are for the benefit of all citizens of the Serbian state. In that sense, you have presented candidates for ministers, as you call them your future team, and there is no reason not to believe that you will succeed. When we look at the composition of parliament, there is no dilemma that you will be criticized, but when I say criticized, then I mean constructively. Then I really don't think that often what we heard today is going to happen, and that's to be insulted without a foundation. I have to say that on two grounds before I return to your exposés. First of all, as an MP who comes from Peći, it seems to me to be my main recommendation, perhaps even bigger to talk about a national minority of Albanians than some of my colleagues who tried to say or read what was written to them. How threatened are human rights? We can talk about that. How much should minority rights be promoted? That's what we intend to talk about and work on. I realized that Gordana Komic is in charge, and Gordana Komic, if she can do something, can work. We have heard here today a need to show some kind of sacrifice that does not exist in front of someone who should be or a good grandmother who has a little rude child, so when they make a white woman, she says: “Well, wait, yes, yes, but let’s see how we can help him. ” It wouldn't be a big deal if with those dirty fingers we tried to pull something that shouldn't be touched, the only question is why we soiled those fingers, what our ultimate goal is, are we really the speakers of a national minority or have some other aspirations that lead us towards further secession and the creation of something that we sit on here have no right to agree to in our lives, which is "great Albania". In that sense, it is my duty first to say that my main task will be to protect every man's right, and I will absolutely help you if any of my colleagues happen to give them, God forbid, in Presevo, Bujanovac or Bear someone breaks down the cemetery like someone did in my native oven, I will be the first one to look for the guilty, so that God doesn't let them kill children who went out for a swim at noon, I will also be the loudest one again to determine who's guilty. If we don't feel like we're talking that way in the Assembly, it would be great if we didn't say anything and we weren't trying to make a sacrifice out of ourselves in Serbia who's the victim, so there's little to say to the victim, in which I speak for 250,000 displaced people. So don't tell me about human rights from the position of someone who's free to move in front of me, who can't do it in his hometown. I'm going to end up here, all I'm going to say, first of all, because they're getting emotional, I'm going to go too far, and secondly, because those who provoked this kind of reaction aren't worth more than this. What's very important, you pointed out in your exposé, is that it will continue to be primary in demographic policy, our Natalie, which is important. I especially look forward to dealing with human and minority rights. And there's one reference to the position of a woman, first of all, because it also treats gender equality. Again, I have no dilemma as to what it will look like, I fully praise Gordana Komic, because she does not belong to my political party, and I know it was worth supporting her when she asked for and filed a law on 40% of women. Thank you for having exceeded our expectations and your cabinet now numbers 50% of the women. It promises, and it gives us the task to deal with some more laws in the meantime and in the mandate. I'm sure you'll be elected, to say, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that we'll give support, that would be excessive. I will shorten my speech, above all, by respecting the appeal of the President of the Assembly to choose the Government as soon as possible, and to leave time for my younger colleagues to turn, because youth belongs to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u424	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The next reported is Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u425	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, with candidates for your team, as you said at the beginning, this is the second time in your life to address this distinguished home from this large pay phone, you are presenting a plan for your government's work in the coming period, and you are looking for the support of this respected home. With this in mind, I will be completely honest with both you and the citizens of Serbia and these colleagues. When you first received a mandate from the President of the State in 2017 to draw up the Government and on Vidovdan in 2017, you exposed the exhibits here for this same speaker, I had a great personal dilemma on how to define myself and how to vote. I honestly admit, I was a skeptic, whether you were the right person to be assigned the job and how to personally determine it. I set myself up by believing, first of all, the president of the country, the president of my party, that is. Now our parties, the man with the greatest political experience, not only in Serbia, probably in the Balkans. I decided at that moment to trust the man who brought Serbia back from the ambience that it was very high on, to trust the man who saved Serbia from the bankruptcy it was facing, to trust the man who at the end of 2013 and in early 2014, to spend Serbia through the winter that was probably one of the stronger in history, and in the spring of that same year through the historic floods, which caused great damage to Serbia and we do not remember that we had those in recent history. I decided to trust him and voted for you, for your exposés, I voted for your team. You started working, time passed, and time was the best judge. The results have been down. It'll turn out that on Vidov day on your side everything was best seen. It will turn out that you've had a string of results and I didn't have a real basis for being unfaithful to Tom in those days when you put the proposal before us. Dear Prime Minister, I am now saying this as an important thing that Serbia needs to know, these results have been examined through the fulfillment of everything you have drawn in that exhibition and for what you have asked for support at that moment from us. But Serbia needs to know that you have been open to every initiative and every proposal that has come from me personally from both my colleagues and any man from this Parliament, and I am certain of any man from Serbia. You've explicitly responded to all our suggestions. They used to be real and respected, but at least and minimally, they were always seriously considered. It's created an even greater trust in you and your team. Where are we today? Today you stand proudly in front of this speaker, you deliver results, you speak of Serbia as a country of victory, a proud country, a respected partner who again makes all the most important decisions on his own. Today we are talking and talking about Serbia that has the biggest economic growth and the fastest growing economy in Europe. You are talking about 3.6 billion euros of foreign direct investment in Serbia, which is essentially more than in all other countries of the former Yugoslavia. You're talking about Serbia's employment. You're talking about 320 and, correct me if I'm wrong, a few kilometers of highways, "Milosu Great" as the most important project, and all of this is slowly starting to produce results in terms of a better standard and life for every man in Serbia. But not only in Serbia, believe me. This is also slowly beginning to be seen on the standard of life of all our people living in the environment. For the first time in this respected home in one important political document, the Defence Strategy and the National Security Strategy, thanks to Minister Vulina and you as Prime Minister, there is a definition that Serbia is a guarantee of the security of every man, wherever he lives, especially when it comes to Republika Srpska and for the first time such a definition enters the official political document brought into this respected home. You've taken care of security, but it's not enough. You start with the president of the state of serious investment in the economic progress of every man living in the environment, especially Republika Srpska. You invest 30m euros in every project in Republika Srpska, together. Today, there is no local government in Republika Srpska that has at least one facility and one project financed by the Republic of Serbia. The whole last century, passing through the Republic of Serbia and BiH, you could see the objects being spoken of -- built by the Ottoman Empire, built by Austria, etc., some and Germany, and today in every city, as a provision for the future, when you, our descendants, pass through the Republic of Serbia, there will be objects that are spoken of -- built by Serbia at the time of the government of Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Ms. Ana Brnabic. You've changed history along with the president of the state, you probably weren't even aware of it, in a positive sense, of course. You haven't even neglected the diaspora. You have also brought serious measures in terms of abolishing customs duties for personal things diaspora, but be assured, and today you have said little about it, that our diaspora will only reduce serious investment in the capacity of scientific and educational institutions, research centres, scientific and technological parks, because truth is, our people in the diaspora are leaving in search of better education and well-paid jobs. It's good that you mentioned it in the new exposé that's in front of us today. I'm sure you'll fill all of that, and especially these six points that are defined in this, let me say, the program that you've proposed, and that each of these points will have its reflection on our people in the environment and on our diaspora. That's what you mentioned earlier, i.e. Already this morning, it quickly passed this day, mentioned by this speaker, that our people in the region and the diaspora will be an important segment in your future functioning. Now, I don't know if it's a coincidence or an intention, but the fact is that on your team that you've proposed to us a good part of the people or was born directly in the countries in which our people live or are drawn to direct roots and is related to that same region. I repeat, I don't know if it's intention or coincidence, but in any case, it paints a symbolic one-of-a-kind unity of our Corps in the Balkans at all. And that's a good thing about it. I'm not talking about personal solutions. Of your entire team, I have a reserve today according to only one proposal, first of all, because of the political differences I have with this proposal from the very beginning. If the president of the state has put his personal feelings behind the state's interest, I don't see any reason not to do so today. And that speaks of responsibility both to the president of the state and to the SNS. With the hope that after a year or two of action, I'm willing to say that I was wrong and that the reserve was unfounded if the work results were positive. At any moment I'll be ready to say that my reserve was unnecessary. That doesn't mean I won't support that proposal. All in all, Your Honor, this time I personally vote for you and your proposals for at least one reason more than 2017. This time, next to the president of the state, I trust you. I believe because of everything you've done for my Serbia, for your Serbia, for our Serbia, for our people in Serbia and our people in the Balkans in general. That's what I'm saying on my own, and I know that's how it is when it comes to SNS, because our voices are always unique, i.e. Our voice is always unique. With this in mind, as chairman of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, make sure that I, my colleagues, the SNS, will be a faithful ally in the follow-up of the affairs you started in this previous term, which in fact started today's president of the state in 2014. In the end, good luck to us and to you and to your team and to Serbia and to every man in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u426	Thank you. He has the word of the MP of the people, Ugljesa Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u427	The Honorable President-in-Office, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister and candidates for the future composition of this government, the distinguished citizen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us a very important day, the day in which we choose a new government, a new one according to our specific personal solutions, as well as the new resolutions they will have within themselves, but certainly the government in continuity that has been drawn up since 2012 by the agreement of the two leaders Ivica Dacic and Aleksandr Vukic. As a member of the young generation, I will look back on the position of young people in our society. Young people today face different kinds of challenges that affect the quality of their lives, starting with economic circumstances, education, but also issues that concern the establishment of their family. What young people need is for someone to listen to them and respect all their preferences. In that sense, I must point out and praise what the state has done in the previous period, as regards certain projects that it has implemented and has shown that in some intensity there is hearing for young people and, above all, I think about the project in the field of health, when 100 of the best students of medical schools and 250 of the best graduates of high school medical schools have been given the opportunity to get a job in their profession, which, on the one hand, has made it possible, on the other hand, for our best young doctors to stay in their country. I would like to commend from the field of agriculture what has been done when it comes to the opportunity for young farmers to apply for grants to launch their agricultural production and some other agro businesses. Finally, I would also point out a project concerning "My First Salary", and thanks to which 10,000 young people were given the opportunity to acquire some new knowledge, skills and competences that helped them in any case during their next employment. I expect this government to strive even more vigorously to understand the needs of young people and thus to fight for their better quality future. I believe that by taking of course all the circumstances in which we are, the state needs to find a way to allocate more resources when it comes to students. I think that they could be more educated on the cost of the state, because I think it's not a cost, but an investment for a future that, with certain timely temporary activities that we're going to do and very quickly valorize all the knowledge that has been acquired in those colleges. We also need new jobs that have been opened in the previous period, but I think we also need new jobs that will require a highly qualified staff, thus reducing the outflow of our young and educated people from Serbia, which I think is one of the burning problems we are facing today. Also, as a young man, who formed his family, I support the initiative to create a new resort that will deal with family and population policy, because I believe that the family has long lost that place in our society that should take place, which is to be the basic pillar of our society, and I think that by returning the family to that place that belongs to it, it's counterproductive when it comes to a series of unwanted effects that we get for the result, and they reflect through certain, let me say, deviant behaviors in young people. I think a healthy and strong family is one of the basic preconditions, if we're talking about birth, and we'll agree there's no future for our country without birth. By listening to your exposés, I think I have reason to be optimistic that the rights and positions of young people will be high priority of what you and your government will do in the coming period and, also, to the future government, if we choose it, and I don't see any reason not to do it tonight, I want it to be the Government of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, achieving successes in the interests of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u428	The next MP is Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there is a saying - the speech should be like a woman's skirt, long enough to cover the topic and short enough to be interesting. I think that's what Churchill said, so I'll try to stick with it. Right away, let me say that I respect my coalition partners, and especially their courage because in politics, I understand through them, you don't often get what you want, but what others want and from there I understand a few human resources that some of us don't like very much. Let's get in line. I'll start with foreign policy. I welcome what it will be, Mr. Selakovic, since I have had the privilege of meeting the values he owns in these eight years. I believe that in foreign policy they will do what we expect them to do. The great forces often think they can come with us without us. I know he'll handle it somehow. To be brief enough, I will also move on to an army that is very important for foreign policy in terms of deterrence, and Serbia is also eager for peace. Many Serbia has fought for others. It is time for him to live for himself for a little longer and to achieve some results in the economy that will continue to strengthen his country's military power, political power, foreign political power, and also has a saying by Sun Cu, which says: the greatest skill is to defeat an opponent without the use of force. I believe that this will also be done by the new minister of military and new foreign policy in many ways, with the gratitude of the former foreign minister, who together with the government managed to withdraw 18 recognitions of the false state of Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must respect everyone else, but of course, Mr Selakovic, you will make us respect ourselves, because these great ones often think they don't need partners, but vassals, and we just need to be subjects, and certainly not friends, partners of the great powers, and this government, which is until now and the future government, will do so much to make us feel like their friends, partners, and not as vassals and subjects. As far as agriculture is concerned, I welcome the announcement of those five billion to increase incentives this year, given that more demands have been filed than we expected compared to last year. I also welcome the intention of exposé to bring agricultural production closer to the processing and the food industry, above all, so that we can use our plant potential to develop livestock production, meat production, milk and eggs and the processing industry. To be clear, incentives are more than twice as much as they were in the amount by 2012, but I want them to be even bigger, not only because of agricultural producers, but precisely because of this food industry that the future prime minister was talking about because the food industry would have cheaper raw materials and would be more competitive on the regional market and on other markets, and thus bring excess value and additional value to this country from the country. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture isn't just agriculture. It's now a matter of security, demographics, etc. I wish Mr. Krkobaæ every success in it regardless of my particular reserves. I want them to succeed, his team to succeed, because that success concerns me too, since I live in the country. I'm a supporter of that. It's not exactly right. There's a saying. It's better to suffer for the village than in the country. You should think about the village's headquarters being in the countryside, say in Topoli. From there, the restoration of Serbia's statehood began, and the restoration of the Serbian village. We have over a thousand villages with 100 inhabitants, 200 villages are gone. At this point, there are 110 fewer of us today than there were yesterday, at least 80% of them living in the country. From the village water twice. It leads to the world one time, and the next time it leads to the next world. They're not coming back either. The time has come for me to make a proposal to make that village concern a steppe. Most of all, we need to take care of the villages along the administrative line. My proposal is to give each household one minimum personal income for families, not individuals, who live along the administrative line. The white plague is the most effective ethnic cleansing. Big cities don't lose their population even though they don't have much talent. They're still powering up from some small environments, from the village, and they're still running from the village. This is a way to keep the first residents along the administrative line so that the most successful aggression doesn't happen, and that aggression is an aggression of children's cradles. Don't empty those territories, we have experience with Kosovo, because then some other peoples will settle that territory, and then there will probably be unrest and potential wars again because in such a way they will want to take over territories, to correct borders for their own benefit. So I welcome the village's care, this ministry should also take care of the other thousands of villages that have less than 100 inhabitants, and then take care of those who have more than 100 inhabitants. I put these villages on the map with less than 100 inhabitants. Most are along the administrative lines and borders with some neighbouring republics that in the past had territorial claims on our territory. I wish they didn't have them anymore. In the end, I want to wish you all the best, especially the minister who will be conducting the dialogue. I'm saying that if only it was voted for, I wouldn't vote for it, but since I said that in politics you don't get what you want, but what others want, it's my duty to vote and wish for success. In doing so, I think that it can prevent those events that were happening in front of the National Assembly and that my coalition partner, unlike me, better estimate that such a person can start this dialogue and that we don't get some outside funding today, some groups share and lead us into conflicts with themselves. I keep saying, in such conflicts, we lose for sure. I'm not sure our political opponents will accept this hand-to-hand and intention of the largest coalition partner in this assembly and in the future government. Don't have an illusion. When you want to do something good while you're going that way, don't expect some unfortunate people to remove some obstacle from your path. You have to expect that they will try out what they are to get you some rock on that road, but I appreciate the message that you sent, that Serbia wants inner peace, to devote itself to the economy, etc., and it's up to those who reach out to accept that hand, and that is why I want the future minister every success, because it can depend on a lot of things in this country, because there is an intensity that those outsiders who don't want to make good use of these insiders who have stolen us for years to try again because of the idea of a new bribery to destroy the stability of the Republic of Serbia. Dostoyevsky said – when you go down the road and if you stop to throw stones at every dog that barks, then you will find it difficult to reach the goal. Gentlemen Ministers, future Prime Minister, are not worthy of stones or standing, and that is why I wish you every success. Your wish will be in charge, your desire to succeed will be half the success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u430	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u431	Can you let me know how much time we have left for our parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u432	There are four minutes and two seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u433	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, respected candidates and above all respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is my great honor to have the opportunity to address you from the most state-level legislative institution. Congratulations above all to the SPS President on the appointment of this extremely important state office and I have no doubt that he will perform this assigned function with many successes and that this parliament will be a place where we will conduct exclusively constructive and very important discussions that will aim to make the decisions that we make here very important and that the lives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be better every day. We're here today to vote for a new government. We have candidates for new ministers before us, and since our parliamentary group will support this proposal and vote for, I would like to congratulate all future ministers, to wish you many successes in the work, because your success means the success of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the more quality you will be doing so every citizen of our country will live better. I can see you're being led by a positive selection, especially Mrs. Brnabic on your team. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be with the other ministers. I also find a positive selection very important in choosing candidates to be guided by their knowledge, abilities, and not so crucial in party membership or incompetence. I am saying this because I have been given the chance to sit here and speak as a candidate from the SPS list, as someone who is not a member of that party, as someone who has not been involved in politics until now, but solely because of the belief that with my knowledge, experience so far, art career, and above all because of my desire to potentially initiate some useful changes, I can be helpful in the work of this Parliament, especially in the sector of culture and art, where I come from. A number of serious topics are certainly ahead of us, but I would like to ask you that in addition to the subject of KIM, health situation, migration crisis, economic stability, we put the topic of culture, artists on the agenda, and I am already pleased that Mrs Brnabić in her expose has apostrophe and the topics which are culture, sport, youth and education. And you know for a fact that during the war, Churchill was proposed to separate some of the cultural resources from the arms supply, and he said that -- and what are we fighting for then? The culture of a society determines its national identity and I find it extremely important. Our personal ambition for us, now functioners must become public good, must be fuel that we will spend to realize the goals that will be important to our grandparents, children, teachers, artists, taxi drivers, because we are all equal and we all deserve equal chances. So far, I have not dealt with politics, but exclusively with music and art, and as such I have learned the absolute strength of the state institution. It is very important when, as an artist and cultural MP, you get the support of a strong state institution and there is a big difference when you work and realize your ideas and ideas without it. Knowing the affinities that future Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic has towards culture and art, I am sure that culture will get its rightful place both in the budget that we will be dealing with here soon and in the comprehensive attention that culture in our society would have to have. I will use my law and Rules of Procedure to ask questions about both the situation in culture and in all other areas where some of the problems that I think are important appear. Now, I'm going to be like someone who comes from the brand of music and art, a little bit out of the formal frameworks, and I'm going to let... (President: Jelena, since we must run out of time.) )......................................................................................................... .. A few lyrics of a song written in 1981 almost 40 years ago. This mentions the topics we are talking about today in this House. And it's like this, I'm going to be a little bit in the manner of the generation that I belong to and art trying to give up, not singing, "A lot of things are stuck in my head and they're occupying brain hemispheres, a brain like a burger, who onstage Jaeger, stretches out, but can't understand these mandates, and almost always the same candidates. A candidate who doesn't try to break up my mandate isn't a real Democrats. The fall of birth, the laughter of the living, as a short maternity leave, is, in fact, the young without a job, with no roof over their heads, supposed to feed the child with grass. Those who have long acquired all things and have provided their children with belts are easily called for, while others have given up. It was not only the phenomena of the global economic crisis that led to the tightening, for example, to no one because of the inert investments, but no one's conscience is biting. With this results, results, and only then re-terms." Please let this coin guide you all, all of us together through future, hopefully successful work. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u434	Thank you. I have to say, I've been tolerated, just because this is her first performance. She's a world-class cellomaster and she's never dealt with politics, so I'm asking you to have an understanding of my permissiveness. Now let's move on. The next MP is Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u435	Thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Madam Prime Minister, candidates for members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I spoke in this esteemed home a few days ago about one fact and that the SNS on today and President Aleksandar Vucic had a 66% rating. So, historical support for the citizens and peoples of the Republic of Serbia for all that has been done in the past few years, at a time when he was mandated in 2014, when he led the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what he as his own amannet, as 44/2 MG/MC, one great responsibility passed on to you, Mrs Brnabic, but also to all future members of the Government, to act and do as it was done in the previous period, especially in the fields of foreign policy, economy, building infrastructure and preserving the highest national interests of our country. Thanks to President Vukic, thanks to the support of the people and the SNS, our country is becoming a champion in many areas. Our country is spoken of in foreign media, in the most developed foreign countries in the best possible light, starting with the Financial Times, from what we did on the infrastructure on the "Ding Business" list of the World Bank, and even a few days ago this "Blumberg" survey and how much this new government, in a few hours or an hour and a time, will be balanced and how great wealth and democracy of our country and us as politicians in the ruling majority, sits in the Government of the Republic of Serbia 11 good, excellent women who can do jobs from energy, European integration and all other resources that are important for the development of our country. My colleagues talked a lot about the six principles that the president laid down a few days ago, which our country will primarily deal with in the coming period. "Serbia 2020-2025." tells us clearly about President Vukic's vision, about leadership and everything that we need to be even stronger, to be even more modern, to be richer, and to follow those results that were made in 2015, 2016, but also in the past year, but also to show how good crisis managers we are, as well as him, but like Mrs Brnabic, eventually and now the former government to deal with this catastrophic pandemic in the best possible way, to preserve the health system. There are, of course, congratulations and a health minister who has done a great job and a whole crisis staff, to preserve our citizens, to save our people, but it's a very important thing not to forget our economy, not to forget our small, medium and large companies, but also to forget foreign investors. We seem to be, the only country in Europe, only a few days after the state of emergency began to open new factories. It started with new investors, opening thousands of jobs, doing what Vukic started in 2014 to bring to every place, however little, undeveloped, new factory, new technologies, to work together with everyone, to bring our foreign policy into line, to strengthen economically, to strengthen in every way possible, and thus to secure ourselves a strong foreign political position. Now we become and are a reliable and strategic partner of the NKK and the Russian Federation, the United States. The Washington Agreement congratulates us all, and it is one huge victory of our country, the enormous victory of President Vukic and what is even more important than all of it, that we become winners and that thanks to him and thanks to this leadership, this spirit of leadership is returning to the victory spirit that we have already shown in the area of economics, and in the fields of social policy, and in the fields of culture, sport, tourism, but this time also foreign policy, defence, internal affairs and all that is important for the protection of our country's key and vital national interests. Also, I want to say that it is very important, in addition to this co-operation with great powers, that excellent co-operation and positioning has been made, and with the Visegrad Group and our quadritary here, counting on that Greece, Romania and Bulgaria, and all that has been done on our president's initiative, and regarding the Mini Shengen, related to the primary and priority ideas of the customs union and the economy, the jobs and all that he has been saying for years, and now it is shown that those who have been against it from the beginning, and those who have been mentors and those who have always been against us. Free flow of goods, people capital, trade, economy, jobs, new investments, the common market. It's the only way to solve a few excellencies of political problems, and in the meantime, 18 times non-recognition or suspension of recognition so-called. Kosovo and strengthening our country's maximum position in the international community, inability, that is, to prevent the so-called Kosovo to become a full member of the Union. We remember our happiness and pleasure when Mr. Stefanovic came from Abu Dhabi fighting there to so-called. Kosovo does not enter Interpol. So, everyone has worked and I hope that everyone in the coming period will work on this path and plan to defend our vital interests and of course what President Vukic has set up, and regarding the modernisation of our country, related to peace, regarding stability. A lot of energy, a lot of work is dedicated to stability, to peace, because when we have stability, then we can also have long-term political solutions. It is an indication that our authority, that our majority here in the Assembly, but our future government will take care of the citizens, their interests, their wallet and everything that is needed for every citizen's normal life. So we're just going to raise our capacities in the area of demographics and demographic capacity, so we're going to raise capacities in both human and minority rights and, to finish here, and we're champions here. Here are the speeches of some of my colleagues that have shown enough how open this country is to co-operation, as far as it's not important in this country who's called, what's faith, what religious or any other religion has to do with it. This was shown by our friends and brothers Hungarians today, Bosniaks who want to build this country. I thank them all, Hungarians in particular. The other day, I saw a documentary, and I want to thank their victims and dedication to our country, and to Joseph Sic, volunteering at Kosharam, and Tibor Cerna and their families, all those who have Serbia at heart. To them is Serbia and mother and will be mother and I hope that Serbia will continue this way in the future, to be the state of all citizens of this country, wanting them all to be developed, to have their families rich and to make all progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u436	I thank the MP Vladimir Marinkovic. The next word is Parliament MP of Life Starcevic from the Single Serbia parliamentary group. I would remind you that your parliamentary group has nine minutes and 48 seconds. Let Marko Atlagic prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u437	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished candidates for members of the future Government of the Republic of Serbia, tonight, today, we are choosing the 16th Government of the Republic of Serbia in the modern era of multilaterals, if we count those elections from 1991 and the Government of Dragutin Zelenovic or 142. The government, if we count from the first government of Avram Petronivic in 1839, that is, the Principality of Serbia. Why am I talking and why did I start with this data? These days, on various portals and media, we can see individuals or read individuals who, wanting to downplay, discredit a government that has not yet been elected, who want to degrade and minimise any future result of the government we choose today, the government that has not yet been elected calls the government a mandate, say that the government has a short period of time and that it cannot do much and achieve significant results. However, I must tell you that in Serbia's history, very often and very much have been elected and replaced by governments. In the period from 1918 to 1929, 26 governments were elected, starting with so-called. 12. The government of Nikola Pasic, until the first government of Petar Zivkovic in 1929. In fact, the state of Serbia has always been exposed to numerous challenges, both internally and externally. In order to meet these challenges, Serbia has often, among other things, reconstructed its governments in the best, most optimistic way to address the problems facing it. Otherwise, today in the 21st century, when changes in the world, Europe, are a very fast environment, when periods between economic crises and periods of economic prosperity are very short and very fast to change, today at a time when the pandemic of the Coron virus and, of course, the economic crisis that monitors this pandemic of the Coronus virus, the world, and Serbia that is certainly not isolated from everything have and how they need to change. From here today we choose a government that needs to meet the needs of today, the challenges of today, and that should enable the good functioning of all spheres of society in the conditions of the pandemic and the economic crisis that affects the whole world and which needs a government that needs to protect, above all, the health of the nation. But the world and Serbia today and the world and Serbia in 2022 will not be the same. The world, as I said, is changing very quickly. We don't know if and when the pandemic of the Coronal virus will be completed. The consequences of the economic crisis that follows and monitors the pandemic cannot be accurately and accurately predicted. We don't know what kind of pressures will be, foreign political pressures on our country. All this is the reason, and in this sense I understand the announcement by the president of the Republic of Serbia that in 2022, we will have new parliamentary elections and a new government that will have the task of responding to a new, different, and we hope for a better time. However, the government we choose today must respond to a number of challenges, how to preserve Serbia's economy in terms of the pandemic and how to maintain a leadership position in the region when it comes to foreign direct investment. This government must preserve political and military neutrality at a time when we witness very great turbulence in the world. The government must preserve peace and stability, not only in the state of Serbia, but also in the region, and be the leader and pillar of preserving this peace and stability in the region. This government must preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, while remaining on the declared path towards EU membership. The government must continue to build a good foreign political position and build good friendly relations with both the US and the EU and with traditional friends Russia and China. Of course, this government should also develop good neighbourly relations. The government should continue to fight crime and corruption and continue to strengthen all institutions of the system, must strengthen the fight against white plague, speed up birth, preserve the health of the nation. This government must launch within the necessary internal dialogue in society. This government must continue to revitalise the village. I agree with the claim in the exposé that every village should have a broad interest, but every village must also have sound drinking water, quality electricity, gas, bulked Atari roads, it must have sports grounds, cultural homes, it must have pension clubs to equalise the quality of life in both the city and the country. I also agree with the claim that Serbia must move forward with the world and that Serbia must develop artificial intelligence, it is beyond what is necessary, but Serbia must continue to guard and try to preserve both our natural intelligence and our knowledge, that is, our young people, to prevent going into the world, the brain drain to keep those young, talented people in our country and to make good citizens of Serbia from them. As far as education is concerned, our education and our education system are good. This is witnessed by the fact that young, educated people are happily seen in the most developed countries of the world. Our education system has recently shown that it is easily and quickly adaptable to both sudden and unfavourable situations, but space for repairing the education system and how it is. Namely, our education system must be set up to meet the needs of not today, but of future time. Why? Because the ones we're training from the education system as a final product are only coming out in a few years, so our education system has to go ahead of its time. They say – what is the difference between school and life? Trained first to teach, then give you a test, see if you've learned. Life first gives you a test from which you learn a lesson. Our education system must be consistent with the needs of today's life. Our education system and acquired knowledge in it must be applicable. That's why I'm glad education was put as one of the priorities in the exposé. In previous parliamentary elections, the people have shown that they want political continuity, they have given great confidence to the parties that they have made in the previous period, so this government, or this government we choose tonight, is indeed the Government of Political Continuity, but also the Government with many new personal solutions, namely, with new energy, which will give an additional impulse to the further strong economic development of our country and society. Hence, the JS parliamentary group will support, as our President Dragan Markovic Palma said in the previous exhibition, a proposal from the President of the Republic for Elections and candidates for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and will continue to contribute through the assembly action, so that we can all meet together the challenges of today. I wish the future government a lot of success in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u438	Thanks, buddy. Just to let you know that you've spent your time scheduled for your parliamentary group. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u439	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Honorable Prime Minister Mrs Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to see among the candidates for ministers persons who have come to this high house very often in the past, which speaks of their work and dedication. That's what I want for new candidates for ministers. Dear People's MPs, this programme of work of the Republic of Serbia candidate for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is extremely well-placed, based on those six goals, but elaborated on the details, so to speak, and I have no intention of particularly speaking about them, but I will draw any attention to all six, in another context. First, as Mrs Brnabic suggested, as well as the President of the Republic, the struggle for the health of our citizens, under number one, both those of the elderly and those of the middle-aged and our children. Our goal, ladies and gentlemen, is to be among the five most successful European countries. It's a tall scale. I believe in the government of the Republic of Serbia that they will fill this scale without saying and transferring. To this end, we need new capacities, new hospitals, clinical centres, the renovation of the old ones, we need additional investment from the budget, which is not an easy job. It's very difficult in this situation we're in. For those who daily deny the success of the former government, let us say the former, but also those ministers who are in the current government, allow and for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to say that the Republic of Serbia is the first to introduce health measures to curb the crown. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? We first introduced the necessary economic measures for reviving the economy. I know I'm challenging the revolution of our political opponents now, and they have to agree with this. We have also preserved the health system with the inhuman efforts of our health workers, nurses and our doctors and government in general and the President of the Republic, and we are one of the few countries, as you see now in the environment of what is happening. Next, in a situation like this, we were building a homage of hospitals. Is it true or isn't it? In such a difficult situation, we have adapted the health system to pandemic weather in an incredibly fast time, and we have been transmuted, and we are one of the few countries in the environment, not to mention in Europe. We helped the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, each one 100 euros each, we saved our pensioners, not to say in a 100% sense. At the expense of that, you, Mr. Loncar, were struck by our political opponents, you, Mrs. Brnabic, you former government members and candidates in the current government and our President of the Republic. This is why I have to say, firstly, we adapted the school system to this pandemic time, first in this part of Europe, we got the first protective equipment, we proved practical solidarity, we gave assistance to some European countries in the European Union. Is it true or not? Despite all this, we brought our health system to the 16th place in Europe, and during the government of the former regime, Mr. Jeremic and Mr. Gilas, with 619m euros during politics, we were off the list in 2012, then we were the last, thirty-sixth, and today we were sixteenth on the ranking list. Unfortunately for us, there are also those who did the opposite, campaigning against the control of the crown. Do they have any feelings for those who have suffered from the crown? Part of the doctor, part of the professor, and not counting them any further. Among them, I must point this out, because of brutal attacks on all MPs in the National Assembly of the SNS, brutal attacks for all candidates for ministers and the most brutal attacks on the President of the Republic is Dr. Mila Alečkovic. The woman is propagandising from Paris against covida-19 in Serbia, while from Serbia she is agitating against covida-19 in France and Serbia, no one knows where she is. She called President Vukic and his associates, MPs, bitangs, sadists and psychopaths on June 15th 2020. That lady is a professor at the university. She says that she is fighting against the respirator, so she says, quotes: “There are more and more people on the respirators to go to death. It's a program of killing people." Can you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, imagine that's what a professor of university says? "People in the Crisis Staff are the dumbest," her quote, "Doctor Kon is a big fool," a quote. He says: “It means fool on French Kon. ” That's our teacher. Who is this woman? I must say, she taught at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade. Because of her bad relationship with the follow-up, she got kicked out of that college. Those who gave her bread in Kosovo, Mitrovica, are now given back to them by such evil names. Let us continue, honourable MPs, fighting for the vital interests of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, just a few sentences since I worked in Kosovo and Metohija for 23 years. It's a very difficult fight, and it's been fought since 2008, and the problems are more than three centuries ago, with the constant loss of our population. That is why a broad unity of the entire people is needed, because it is only in this way that we can preserve our interests to be ready for a compromise solution, to enter the talks for a compromise solution, to enter the talks, not to flee from them as some political opponents suggest. We have one part of the intellectuals who advocate handing over Kosovo and Metohija. We have one part of the intellectuals who advocate handing over Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sorry, but I have names to talk about, and I'm not going to lie, I'll give a quote, if they don't agree, let them sue me for this. Academic, often called in this high home, Dusan Teodorovic says, quote - let Kosovo go, so that you do not sacrifice Serbia. The big problem for the Serbian nation and the state is that individual intellectuals, who have been affected, allegedly by European stimuli and usefulness, forget their country's interests. Mr. Teodorovic, an academic, is chaired by the president of the Serbian Academy, Dr. Kostic, who said, I quote -- de jure and defacto Kosovo is lost to Serbia. I'm finishing my quote. October 2015. Gentlemen of the Academy, Kosovo belongs to our ancestors and our descendants, it is soaked in the blood of those who gave life for it. In Kosovo, Serbs lived, Serbs worked and built for centuries, I hope that in the future, for centuries, they will not hope but I am sure. Mr. Academyman Teodorović, remember morale and patriotism make one scientist great, I will repeat, morals and patriotism make one scientist great, precisely those values give meaning to science. You are Mr. Academy, on July 22, 2020, I quote -- Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia. It's a finished quote. And he's not president of the board of directors of the academy, he found it appropriate to put it on the agenda, and he's also defending academic Teodorovic, just because I quote this nonsense, which he's saying. You, Mr. Academyman on March 5th, 2020, compared the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who support the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the SNS with the inhabitants of Nazi Germany and supporters of Adolf Hitler, you said Mr. Academy, quote – Alexander Vukic succeeded similarly, like Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini and Franco. It's a finished quote. You attacked, Mr. Academy and SPC. I don't have time for this tonight, and I hope the president of the parliamentary group will allow me to do so in the future. When we are on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, I must also tell you that Dragan Djilas, of 619 million, and for Europe Đilas, met at the Chacan cafe, on 4 July 2018, together with Vuk Jeremic, Janko Veseinovic, Bosko Obradovic, Dusan Petrovic, it seems to me that Veljo Ilic, a doctor of theft, met and formed a plan to launch protests and that Mr Vukić is destroying on, on the very subject of Kosovo and Metohija. The honourable MPs, a respected candidate for Prime Minister and candidates for minister, instead of agreeing to return Kosovo and Metohija to where they drove him from, and moral gromadas fell so low, that the accident of their own people and their citizens used for their own selfish interests. That's why they're not here today. They were in the last term, they wouldn't face the truth in this high house. Fourth, the fight against those who have used Serbia's economic progress to lay some new foundations and networks to establish a new system and kill and rob people. The Serbian Progressive Party, fought against this monster and reached a high level, thanks to Nebojsa Stefanovic, thanks to Mr Vulin and all ministers in the past government, and thanks to the MPs and our President Aleksandr Vukic. Fifth, preserving independence of self-determination. I particularly withdraw this, preserving the independence of Serbia's independent decision and Serbia's pride. Why the MPs? Well, because it is a tradition and an integral part of the identity of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. We will be a military neutral country, we will take care of our interests, and our course is the EU. Dear People's MPs, Serbia's sixth, strong economic progress, to fight for growth over 6% next year, and at least this year, given the situation in which we end up around zero, and to be truly the best in Europe. It's a tremendously raised scale. That's what he's asking of you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and candidate for ministers, our Honorable President, Mr. Alexander Vukic. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are looking for, and it doesn't really make sense that we won't do it. And to do that, someone said it today, in the exposé of the prime minister, it stands, and our president said that four days ago, we need peace, an effort in the region for peace, just as our President of the Republic is saying, propagating the pedagogy of peace. Peace is a basic condition for the stability of the country and the region. For the future, peace is ensured by raising our children and youth, and it is 15 years ago, not only in our country, but in the region we have not been to much. We're not talking about education. We're talking about education. Education for peace in the future is done through programmes in children's kindergartens, schools, universities, therefore, in the parent home and other educational and educational factors. Another great Leibnic, a German philosopher, told his contemporaries, quote – give me an education and we will change the character of Europe in less than half a century. It's a finished quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, and the great Czech pedagogue and reformer and teacher, Jan Amos Komeski wrote, quote - the war should be rejected as something beastly because the people only agree with what is human. It's a finished quote. Today, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia as a resource, all kinds of progress has been condemned, fate has allowed us to build a learning society, to build a free time society, to build a society of information and civil society. It's not easy at all, it's a huge task. In the end, to piss off our political opponents, completely. I ask a question to you, honourable MPs, as well as to our political opponents and citizens of Serbia – who was the first of the presidents of the state in the last 30 years to carry out the financial consolidation of the state? In the last 30 years, think about it from when to when. Of course, Alexandra Wolfie. Who said first of all from the president of the state -- we're not going to join NATO, and we want to work with him? From the president of the state, Alexander Vukitch. Who was the first of the presidents to mark NATO's aggression on our country? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who said first - I won't impose sanctions on Russia? That's where I got a lot of bets. Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who first told the West - won't stop us from working with Russia and China? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who was the first of the presidents of the state to raise Serbia's army to one envious level after the Serbian military was destroyed? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who was the first of the presidents of the country to regain our country's international reputation? Alexander Wolfie. Who first introduced digitization? During Alexander Vukic, he first hinted in his exhibition, and later Mrs Brnabic. Who first threw up from Russia 166 pages of the Gospel of Miroslav where he was long ago? Alexander Wolfie. Whoever first established diplomatic ties with the United States, hopefully at the level and I guarantee they'll do it the way we used to. Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Dear People's MPs, and political opponents remember well, today Alexander Vukic is the only one, underlining, the only free ruler in Europe, the only free ruler in Europe. I appeal to our political opponents not to share the people. The people are not divided, they share it with the streets and cities of Serbia daily, and they do not spread hatred and violence, because your hatred and your violence throughout the Republic of Serbia will not be answered by violence and hatred. You know why? Because we are aware that the Republic of Serbia can be built on hate and violence. It can only be built by tireless work, patriotism, love, and fine education. In that name, we'll make sure we do this in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u440	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u441	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, Mrs Brnabic, respected members of the future government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, today is an important day in the House of the National Assembly, because today we need to elect a new government, i.e. a new prime minister and members of the government. This is an important and solemn day. What I want first to point out is that I am glad that in this government 50% is members of women and not only from the aspect of gender equality, but it is for me proof that Serbia has become a mature democratic society. Women are valuable, women are hardworking, women are responsible, and women are, by God, very brave. What I want first to point out, and as far as the exposé of the prime minister is concerned, that's two facts. That your exposé is deeply founded in reality, and without reality, there is no future. Another important feature of it is that your exposé has a vision of the future, and in this vision of the future in focus, i.e. in the centre is a better quality of life for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. So maybe I'll just go back to one thing. In the focus of your exposé is exactly a man, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would like to stress that you in your exposé also stuck to the six principles that Aleksandar Vukic, President of the Republic of Serbia, presented as a plan and programme, because we all know that in the elections of the Republic of Serbia, on 21 June, they gave huge political support to the politics of Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Also, I must say that as part of your exposé and investment projects related to the "Serbia 2025" programme, which is the founder of the plan and programme of the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, together with you. What is the objective of the "Serbia 2025" plan is that at the end of 2025, the average salary is 900 euros, the average pension between 430 and 440 euros, for Serbia to be a country of economic strength and economic leader in general in Europe. I would like to stress that what is priority number one is certainly a concern for the health of every citizen of Serbia and older, and middle-aged, both young and children. As a tsunami in 19, he has captured all the countries on a global scale. Much more economically successful countries have failed to cope with the way Serbia wore it. We should thank this, first of all, the health workers who have been responsible and sacrificed for each patient, but of course we should not be ashamed of us, we must thank our country too, we must also thank President Alexander Vukic, we must thank you, Madam Prime Minister, for doing everything you have done to provide citizens with timely and adequate information, and during the previous period you have worked hard to strengthen our health system. Thanks to the personal friendship of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic and the President of the People's Republic of China, Si Gjiping, we have received huge assistance from China both in medical equipment and perhaps even more important in the people. These are health workers who helped our healthcare workers here in Serbia in that first round of 19. Of course, I would like to point out that Serbia may not have been able to fight the Kovid 19 so successfully, if in 2014, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia was Alexander Vukic, that he did not take fiscal consolidation measures that were painful and difficult, but only at that time possible. Even by taking such measures, then the prime minister, Aleksandar Vukic, took care of the protection of those most vulnerable and most vulnerable, pensions by 60% of pensioners were absolutely not reduced, and no social giving was reduced or delayed. What I also want to point out, and what I noticed in your exposé, is that you are doing an analysis of the difficulties you are definitely facing in your work, because the difficulty is always there, but the responsible government is also serving to fight with difficulties and to find solutions to getting out of these difficulties. I would like to commend the government's expansion with three other ministries, and I would especially like to refer to the Ministry of Population Policy and Demography. Also, I have to point out that after 70 years, the issue of population policy was first placed on the agenda by Alexander Vukic. It is good that we are making economic progress, it is good that Serbia today is appreciated and respected in the world, but we have had a negative natural growth in the last 30 years. Serbia must be a country where children are born, and for this reason already in 2018, measures have been taken to work on the incentive of birth. These measures have produced results and I hope that the new ministry will, through its capacity, continue to work to improve all measures concerning population and demographic policies through its work. What I want to point out is that Serbia has taken a package of economic measures, which also referred to citizens of the economy. Serbia's four in a row had no surplus in the budget. The funds for economic support pump up 4.28m euros, to make Serbia's citizens better at carrying out the burden that threatened us and threatening us from the 19th Kovids. Anyway, I wish you good luck and success in your work. I hope that Serbia will continue to be, above all, a peaceful, safe, economically advanced country and a country filled with new generations every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u442	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the President's word, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does he want the word candidate for Prime Minister? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Ana Brnabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u443	Thank you, Your Honor. At the end of this debate, I would like to thank all respected MPs, both those who expressed their support for the government's work programme that I presented and for the team that I presented, and those who said they would not vote for us, which is all normal and natural in a democratic society, like the Republic of Serbia. Also, I have to say that I am really proud and grateful because today in this National Assembly after a long, long time we have heard a really constructive debate and shown the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what it looks like to have a parliament where their representatives talk about things that really concern their quality of life, when you have people who deal with concrete issues and to tell you that if we get your trust, I already know today that the work of this Parliament will help me greatly in my work as Prime Minister because I will... Well, as MP Djukanovic said, I do not expect that we will always and constantly have support because you are serious people. I expect indeed this role of Parliament where you will control our work as well as the executive authorities that suits you, point out the mistakes we are making, open up some new issues, and so all together in the mandate or in the assembly of this Parliament and these governments will, in the best way possible, provide what our citizens need and what they expect of us, not in vain and empty and empty political debates, but really resolving concrete issues for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that after a long time, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will feel proud to see their parliament and their MPs, the topics they talk about and the way they talk to each other and how they work for them, because ultimately, we all work here only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I've heard some criticism that the exposé is too ambitious and I mean that we never, so when we talk about this continuity, then I think since 2014, we haven't been ambitious. On the contrary, we have always been extremely, extremely ambitious, but not unrealistic, not irrational. We knew that we were setting goals that one can only meet if he works every day from morning to night and that he does his best and if he works as a team and we showed that when we set ambitious goals, we can also deliver results and I believe that this exposure is ambitious. I have long dedicated, carefully worked on it, but I truly believe that in the first 100 days of the work of this government you will see, too, how much we can truly fulfill all that we have put in this exposé and how it can contribute to dragging that ship of ours called Serbia through these storms waiting for us by the end of this year and during 2021, challenges and to come out again as winners at the end of that 2021 and early 2022. That's what I'm really convinced of. And one more thing tells me about it, and it should be said to these people who are criticizing us that we may be too ambitious, and that is that already today during this debate, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has confirmed that by the end of this year, we will pay one-time rewards to all our health workers of 10,000 dinars, to somehow repay them and somehow repay them for all their efforts throughout this year. So, all healthcare professionals, and doctors, and nurses, technicians, their teams. When I said this morning that I guarantee that this will be one of the absolute priorities, I can say that by this afternoon we have confirmed that we will actually work on it every day. That's why the candidate for Finance Minister Sinisha Mali had to come out, too, in order to plan to get it through the budget rebalancing that we are going to propose to you, honourable MPs, next week. Finally, I am glad to see that those who criticise us also criticise, besides saying that we are too ambitious, and that we will be the government of continuity. I think it is one of Serbia's greatest forces in the last six or seven years. I'm sorry they don't recognize it. The government of continuity means that you continue to fight where you left off and proceed immediately tomorrow morning, as we do, if we get your support, and I hear that we will, tomorrow morning at eight o'clock in the morning, have a cabinet session and continue to work immediately on the action plans that we need to adopt, on the draft laws that we need to adopt in order to get back to it, to improve the quality of life of all our citizens. So we continue to work and I promise that in the first hundred days of government work you will see concrete results that many may not really expect at this time. When I say the government of continuity, I didn't mention it this morning, and I think it's important that I say it one more time, although I'm sure the vast majority of you know it, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, besides being the Government of Continuity, we will remain a single team with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. It has also brought much good to our country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you look at only our region, you can see that we are witnessing the price of one country's citizens paying if there is a frigid, misunderstanding, mutual debate between the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. Serbia has been gone for a long time and therefore Serbia is stronger and therefore Serbia is moving faster forward and whatever criticisms on this topic, personal insults and callings, believe me, it is one of the things that personally means the most to me and that I know that Serbia is giving priority to many other countries in this region and that it is a national unity that is something that is recognised and appreciated in the world and that contributes to us being a credible and reliable partner. Many envy us because of this, some of the extraparliamentary opposition who could not get the support of the people, or cross that little 3% censorship. I think it's bad for Serbia. They should ask themselves, in fact, if their political judgments are so bad and wrong that they have, after all, led them to the political place they are now. Thank you again very much. I really expect this to bring together Parliament and you, honourable MPs, to have an additional number of ideas and to hear from you what it is that is making our citizens at the bar. I promise you that you will always have someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who listens to you, who answers your questions and who reports to you about these individual initiatives, some of whom you have launched today. Thank you very much and it would be an honor and pleasure to work with you in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-28-0.u444	I thank the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic. Since, as I said, there are no more registered debaters, since we have conducted a search, allow me only in the end that I, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and until the other day, a member of the Cabinta Ana Brnabic, expressed great satisfaction and honor that I had the opportunity to work in that government. I should also say that I am proud of all that we have done well for this country and for this people in the last eight years in a coalition with SNS and President Alexander Vukic, that we have done great things to protect our country's national and national interests, a strengthened position, our country's external-political position, and to stabilise our country's economic opportunities and economic development. In that sense, I want to thank again my colleagues and the Prime Minister, who has been President of the Government for three years, and to wish me a lot of success in the new cabinet. I am sure that only a united Serbia, only a stable and unique Serbia can be strong. So make sure that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia together with the President of the Republic, together with the Prime Minister, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will contribute to the political unity and stability of Serbia. We are also ready for a very dynamic and active co-operation and interaction with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given that the National Assembly is choosing and overseeing the work of the Government, but at the same time that the work of the National Assembly depends on the activities of the Government of Serbia, that is, proposing legislative acts and other decisions that the Assembly should make, in that sense only to tell you that we are soon waiting for us and we expect again in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As I was saying, since we have conducted a search on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I schedule the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. on 28 October 2020, as the day for voting on the Government's programme on the election of presidents and members of the Government at 1923 hours. Voting, like I said, we'll be in touch in one minute. Before we go to the vote, according to our Rules of Procedure, candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government are not obliged to attend the vote. The swearing of an oath, and I hope everything will be all right, is at 20.00 hours. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are currently 229 MPs in the hall, i.e. 230 now, and that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, the Government Programme and candidates for members of the Government, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 270(2), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government decide in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I propose that the National Assembly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and the members of the Government vote publicly, i.e. by the call of the Members of Parliament. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: the vote was – 231, for – 223, was not voted by nine MPs. I find it to be the National Assembly. Most of the votes, she decided to vote publicly on the government's programme and the election of presidents and government members. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government – by a call, I remind you that the National Assembly shall vote at the same time on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government under Article 127(3). The Constitution, then that the National Assembly should decide on the government's choice as a whole, Article 15(2). The Law on Government, most of the votes of all MPs, Article 105 paragraph 2. point 9) of the Constitution of Serbia. I also remind you that it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and, in accordance with that provision, by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the People's Parliament, by the alphabetical order of the last name, the MP who approaches the vote pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "abstained", the President, i.e. the Secretary-General, repeats the name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines whether he is absent or does not wish to vote and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly records that statement of the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. I am putting on a vote by the Government Programme and a proposal for the president and members of the government as a whole. We approach the vote by calling the MPs of the people. I ask the Secretary General of the National Assembly, Veljak Odalovic, to make the call of the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. Thank you. Avramov Andrijana – for; Alavanja Slobodan – for; Aleksić Zagorka – for; Andrić Svetozar – for; Arsić Veroljub – for; Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – for; Aković Dragoljub – for; Bajatović Dušan – for; Bajrami Ardjend – absent; Bakarec Nebojša – for; Bandur Miloš – for; Barišić Dragan – for; Baroš Nenad – for; Bačevac Muamer – for; Belovica Ana – for; Beqiri Nadija – v; Bečić mr Igor – for; Birmančević Boban – for; Bogdanović Žarko – for; Bozinović Marko – for; Bojanić Zoran – for; Bošković Mladen – for; Branković Minčić Dragana – for; Broz Josip – for. Bulatović Slaviša – za; Bursać Joris – za; Vasiljević Bratimir – za; Veinović Nevena – za; Veljović Jelisaveta – za; Vesović Petar – za; Vicek Anamarija – za; Vlahović Sonja – za; Vojinović Nikola – za; Vujadinović Milimir – za; Vujadinović Neven – za; Vujičić Tijana – za; Dačić Ivica – za; Dačić Milica – za; Dragašić Prof. Dražić Maja – Mladen – za; Dabić Đurđa – za; Davidovac – za Žačača – za Živić za; Dačić Ivić – Zaža; Dačić Milica – za; Dragošić – Drecun Milov – Zažan – Zažan – Zaža – Zažan – Zažan – Zaža – Zažar – Zaža – Zažan – Zažan – Zaža – Zaž I apologize, Krajina Marijana was read by mistake – for, and she is absent, so as not to have any discrepancies with the vote and the record we are keeping here officially. Thank you. Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. A break for a few minutes just to get the results together.
