ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73217	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? People's MP, Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73218	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, a few weeks ago visiting our country and the institutions of our country was the Secretary-General of the Muslim World League, Mr Muhammad El Isa, stressing that the organisation is one of the most significant and influential factors among Islamic countries and a representative of interest and influence of almost all Islamic states in the world. This organization has its headquarters in Mecca, in Saudi Arabia, and the primary goal of its operation is to present to the world Islam as it is in the true light, as one tolerance religion that encourages people to be benevolent, open to dialogue, to co-operation and, above all, for humanitarian aid and to help all the people in the world in need. I remind you that Mr. Muhammad El Isu, the president of our country, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, was also guest of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, our president, Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic, and he had really fruitful talks, with Mr. Isa pointing out one importance of Serbia as a multinational and multi-confession state in inter-religious dialogue, not only in regional but also in international contexts. I find it very interesting that he then pointed out a really great truth, that throughout history, quality dialogue and co-operation between Islam and Orthodoxy was just a stabilising factor and a practically fertile ground for quality interfaith talks, but also for stabilising opportunities in the world and a quality interfaith dialogue and peace. In that case, Minister Rasim Ljajic asked the secretary-general of this truly respected organisation, a world-rated organisation, that Serbia, with a large number of indigenous Muslims living in it, would receive observer status in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. This is indeed of great importance to our country, not only because joining this organisation will improve our country's position for future economic development, as it is one huge market of over billions of users, over a billion people, but also will strengthen the geostrategic position and improve the geostrategic and political influence of the Republic of Serbia that it has today. I stress that traditionally with these countries, the Republic of Serbia has quality interstate relations. In any case, I will therefore ask the Foreign Ministry to continue this initial initiative to give Serbia observer status in the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. I must use the enormous authority of Minister Rasim Ljajic, who today, thanks to his quality above all to political attitude and human qualities, ranks as the most influential leaders in the Islamic world. I think this is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia and therefore I ask the Foreign Ministry to launch this initiative and all necessary steps that will quickly realise this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73219	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, public information has surfaced that this part of Southeast Europe is awaiting a new wave of migration from the Middle East and some other countries. So, we have already seen reports of events from the Greek-Turkish border, so it would be responsible and ask the Government of Serbia for a notice on what it has done on the issue, what is Serbia's strategy for dealing with migrant issues? We have had negative experiences precisely because we were not prepared in 2015 when that wave of migrants was in the zenith, but now as we hear, how we can see reports of both domestic media and foreign media, a new wave of migration is expected. There's very little to talk about. We are witnessing that information is coming to the public about the large number of crimes that migrants commit in Serbia's cities, as well as the fear atmosphere that has emerged in Serbia where migrants are present, but above all because there is no clear policy and clear attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's, of course, a lot of incorrect information, and there's a lot of fiction, but there's no concrete suggestion on what to do about it. We have already proposed in 2015 and 2016 that the Republic of Serbia should look up to Hungary on this issue and try to solve the problem on the Hungarian case. We're not xenophobics or racists or isolationists, we just need to take responsibility and look for control of the country's entry, so we don't have any problems afterwards. In many local self-governments both in the north of Vojvodina and throughout Serbia, we have had situations and crimes and tensions and many incidents and problems, and there is no policy and no position by the Serbian government. So, we, as a persecuted, as a published people, had in history a situation when we faced many persecuted Serbs from Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian government has failed to help these people for the past 20 years. We don't need to act inhumanely, but we need to act responsibly and we need to control the inflow of migration into our country. We couldn't hear concrete suggestions from the authorities. We have seen various proposals that were out of mind, in terms of giving some abandoned houses to villages, such proposals came from the ranks of government, these migrants coming from Central Asia and the Middle East, but there is no concrete attitude. We believe that, especially in the last five years, this inflow has been intensified and that we have to act responsibly on this matter. So, what are the security risks, what is really going on, to remove these inventions and suspicions, if these incidents were, and if there were really incidents and crimes, then to do these things, as they are done by crimes. So the responsibility and control of the protection of state borders, according to the reputation of Hungary, according to the reputation of Greece, because on their examples we can see that the state has been responsible for the uncontrolled inflow of migration into its country. That is what Serbia needs to do, to protect itself, so that the situation with the migrant crisis is predictable and to act best for its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73221	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73222	I thank you, President. Respected citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, Serbia's international position no doubt increases from day to day. Diplomatic activity and the diplomatic potential that Serbia is expressing gives unmistakable results. First of all, thanks to the activities of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, Serbia has experienced another one in a series of epilogues of international recognition and respect for the international position. In particular, Sierra Leone as a state of South Africa has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo, which undoubtedly confirms that Serbia has achieved an immeasurable success, as there is no more Kosovo in any case even half the majority when it comes to the United Nations and membership of the UN. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group particularly welcomes the withdrawal of recognitions so-called. Kosovo's independent and Sierra Leone's giving its unreserved support to those who gave and invested the most effort and energy to bring diplomatic potential to this level at which it is now, which is Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic. For the sake of the public, the question arises whether it is possible to place a sign of equality between taxis that have illegally and inappropriately introduced temporary institutions from Pristina, from 100% to products from the Republic of Serbia and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively, in relation to Serbia's diplomatic activity, when it comes to withdrawing recognition of Kosovo's independence? Of course, this equality is mostly due to purely political-propaganda reasons for the affirmation of representatives of temporary institutions from Kosovo. However, such a sign of equality cannot be set in any case, because the withdrawal of recognition of Kosovo's independence is an imperative of Serbia, because Serbia thus proves and shows that in the international legal sense no one can impose views on Serbia anymore, no one can in any way give Serbia any knowledge of what it needs to do and how it should do, because Serbia has its course, its policy, and that policy implies the excessive protection of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the protection of the national interests of Serbs in Kosovo's territory. The question arises how much damage to this international activity of the Republic of Serbia is caused by those who are trying to devalue these results of diplomacy that Serbia is leading, and these are numerous and various opposition, to call them leaders, so-called opposition parties who right here in the assembly hall, if nothing else, convince what officials from Pristina, from the interim institutions of Kosovo, and thus, if anything else, devalue all the results and the complete diplomatic progress that Serbia has made. The question is how much damage they are doing to Serbia, how much damage they are doing to Serbia's international reputation, and whether all this as a tolerance to them is really enough for them to finally make them come to their senses and become not quasi patriots but true patriots and fighters for their country, which they have not shown so far. From these assembly lines, we call on them to really support what anyone who wants to support Serbia and Serbian citizens well instead of the affairs they are prone to, instead of the affairs they are having, rather than the affairs they are prone to, plotting and everything else, and that is to continue to strengthen Serbia's international reputation, and further strong diplomatic activity, until the moment that Kosovo's provisional institutions finally accept dialogue as the only solution to the issues of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73223	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73224	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, it's easy to knock something down, it's hard to build. This applies to houses and buildings, also to institutions, especially institutions, as well as to the institution of the Assembly and democracy, and also to the institution of parliamentary issues, which is an important institution in the control role of parliament, because it should be. I have therefore worked hard over the past few years to make these issues serious, responsible, concrete and when it comes to certain individual cases and when it comes to the highest areas of state policy. I must say, as in all things, as in life, as in politics, not all are the same. So some responded specifically and exhaustively, some pro forms, some never responded. But it's interesting and somewhat encouraging that still most of the institutions I've been looking for in this way have answered and, I say, not only does it always work. So little is up to us, I would say, to both MPs and to issues and in some way form, one of the ways that I say this Parliament does or should perform – and the control function of the executive government. For example, some have never, it seems to me never, like the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, and in this sense my question or suggestion for the Presidency of the Assembly, or the Headship of the Assembly, is it possible in any way to impose sanctions on some or some of the institutions that are in charge, and not to answer parliamentary questions? It is not a lame thing at all, and I think it would strengthen the role of parliament in some future and hopefully a better one. On the other hand, I say, some have responded often and quite exhaustively, where I must commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Djordjevic and others, environmentalism and some other resources. We've also moved something from zero, especially part of the environmental problem related to mini power plants and the like. Erem, my question for the Ministry of the Interior is about multiple repeated comments, an express comment and statements by former Austrian Minister Herbert Kiklo on an agreement with Serbia, to accept migrants or all those who do not receive asylum in Austria. From the interior ministry's response, it's as if there's no agreement. But they never said - no, there is no agreement. So, simply, there were a lot of minor doubts and speculation, and so I repeat that question – is any agreement with Mr. Kiklo signed, or is he making it up or is it just some technical protocol, which might be the case? So, if there is no agreement, let's say, that would reduce, especially given this increased tension and justifiable public sensitivity to this migrant crisis. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, I would ask the question – do they, given that they have representatives, as little is known, in the Management Board and the Krustek and Tristenik and other factories of the "Second Industry", have they been informed by them and their representatives in these "Second Industry" factories of abuses or suspicions of abuses that exist and whether the Ministry of Defence, of course, and the Ministry of Interior, to whom I also address the question, has knowledge that the "Second Industry" factories, i.e. military industries have been damaged in trade, or by intermediaries when exporting their products? It's unusual for factories, military factories to work a lot, and bad business has bad balances, bad results, and middlemen do well and enjoy. Finally, if I can, I have a few more minutes, so it's simple, it's unusual for intermediaries to be rich and their balances are terrible, and manufacturers, state producers are stagnating or everyone is in blockade and debt. The last question, probably in this conference, goes to the address of the president of the Assembly, refers to the situation in Republika Srpska and the pressures that Republika Srpska itself is exposed to by the Sarajevo and the international community -- is there a chance, we had a visit to a delegation from Banja Luka, the Republika Srpska Assembly, to adopt a joint resolution, or a declaration by the Republika Srpska Assembly and the Republika Srpska Assembly that would support and strengthen RS positions, or at least support conclusions, if anything else to support the conclusions of the Republika Srpska Assembly on the attack against them?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73225	Thank you. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Kosovo and Metohija, when it's difficult for Vlasima, you can imagine what it's like for us. My first question is actually congratulations. So, I congratulate the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and all fellow MPs, regardless of political definition, congratulating the withdrawal of the recognition of the false state of Kosovo by the state of Sierra Leone. This is important, especially for us from the ruling majority, which disproves those who say we will give up our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija for EU accession. It is best to deny them, not us Vuk Jeremic, not us Boris Tadic, not us Dragan Djilas, not us Borko Stefanovic, to do so. However, thank you to all who are making efforts to make international recognition, false states, wild states of Kosovo and Metohija, NATO bases, and I think that there will only be a state as long as it is NATO bases, that after that it will be our southern province again. Thank you, everyone who stands in that direction. The issue concerns, again, the elections -- what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Police take to announce the disturbance of the electoral process that follows in a few months in the Republic of Serbia in elections for MPs, province elections and elections for local parliaments. Namely, certain types of criminals who represent themselves as politicians, those from this yellow part of the unfortunate opposition, announce that they will try to prevent the conduct of elections in certain municipalities, in certain local self-governments, and thus interfere with the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia, from trying to do so. That is why my question - what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent authorities do to pre-warn it, and if there happens to be effective such interference being removed during the elections and such perpetrators being prosecuted in the strictest possible form of punishment? My next question is: what will the Ministry of Culture and Information, what will the Justice Ministry do about the verdict reached in the Supreme Court in Frankfurt, the German court, which ruled on a temporary measure for the United Group piracy, which included United Media, SBB, Solak and Gilas, where the court in Germany found that they had decoded the illegal channels of Telekom and depicted it on the United Group platforms, and thus carried out an act of piracy and, according to German court estimates, caused Telekom Serbia damages of 100m euros -- what will be done by the ministry and what will our judiciary and prosecution take to punish the "United Group" in Serbia, as in Slovenia, Germany and so on? In the end, my question about agriculture is, what can we do in the next cycle to speed up payments of subsidies incentivise agriculture? How fast can we speed up this process? It is a question for the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. for the Agency for Agricultural Payments, since the money has quite enough, since it is a matter of processing certain requirements and cases, since they are multiplying. Is there a possibility that we can employ a certain number of people and speed up the process of processing the demands of farmers, and therefore because there is enough money, this payment is more efficient and faster, not only so that someone does not think about this pre-election time but also in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73227	The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73228	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I ask the question to the public prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia – is there a criminal responsibility of the Alliance for Serbia for the continued spread of false news about the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, about the state of Serbia and its authorities with the intention of undermining our country's national and security stability? The latest false news is the alleged expansion of an anti-immigrant campaign by the Serbian state. The fact is that today, the migrant refugee crisis is the phenomenon of global proportions that are unprecedented in the post-World War II period. The Republic of Serbia was in the centre, and today it is west of the Balkan migrant route. The Republic of Serbia and its citizens have shown solidarity and humanity towards migrants why it has often been praised by migrants themselves, as well as European and world institutions and their officials, especially by the OSCE, the EU, UNICEF and other organisations. The Serbian compassion with refugees and migrants and a fundamental understanding of their suffering and the situation in which they are instigated by the fact that we have been facing refugees and internally displaced persons for more than two decades. The Republic of Serbia will continue to develop as a comprehensive and sustainable solution for migrants so far and thus meet the needs of basic human dignity and protection of refugees by protecting human rights for all but at the same time guaranteeing our country's security. However, we also have the presidents of some political parties, such as Dr Zoran Lutovac in a people called Zoki the stray, constantly with lies attacking the government without any real facts. So he accused the SNS authorities of an anti-migrant campaign, accusing it of falsely propagating language patrols, counting the blood cells of migrants and some other fiction. Of course, those accusations are just fiction. However, it is true that his president of the Alliance for Serbia, Bosko Obradovic, advocated racism and campaigned against migrants. This fool made a video of how bad it is in Serbia because it contains migrants. Dr Zoran Lutovac, a known hostage, has been denied by his party colleague, Goran Jesic, who told Zoran Lutovac, quoted - and this migrant campaign has more to do with leader Dveri Bosko Obradovic, the fool lurking around Serbia with an painted coolant, spreading fear, lying like a dog and making political campaign out of unhappy people, finished quote. That's what he said on February 26th, 2020. Dear People's MPs, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the "International Bandits and Cheaters Group" accused President Vukic of being irresponsible about the spread of the virus's corona, Jeremic claims the situation is serious and says, quoting: "The virus has arrived in the Balkans, Croatia and Northern Macedonia, and in Serbia it is reportedly not," the quote concluded. As you can see, respected citizens, this impertinent accuses his country and the leadership of the Republic of Serbia of concealing the crown of the virus. It is true that there are so far no corona infected with the virus in Serbia, and our country has done its best in terms of what is in its power, which is why we have been praised by the World Health Organization. Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, continue to produce daily lies. Old lies suffer new lies, new affairs, and thus are carried out in circles. Who today remembers their lies about John Doe or the lies about Franz, their lies about hundreds of dead people floating around Obrenovac during the flood or their fake abductions of journalists who tried to stage their own or their false death threats that they wrote to themselves on the sidewalks or their inventions of child abductions? Respected citizens, SNS and the Serbian government will not deal with these poor people who harm their lies and our country's vital national interests, but will carry out faster and stronger modernisation of our country, and the engine of accelerated modernisation is President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73229	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today, at the session by the promoter, Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs will attend. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention for the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex 1. Agreement on economic and technological co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. We welcome Minister Djordjevic. Do you want the Minister's word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73230	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs and ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data, which I would first of all remind you that the basic text of this Convention of the Council of Europe was adopted in 1981 in Strasbourg, and that the Republic of Serbia confirmed this Convention in 1992. The importance of this document was great because it is the only existing legally binding international contract of global importance in this area. As a result, some countries outside Europe have also confirmed this Convention. The Convention provided that it is necessary to guarantee every natural person, regardless of his nationality or place of residence, respect for his human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the right to privacy, when it comes to the automatic processing of his personal data. On the other hand, in addition to the Convention, such an obligation arises in Article 42(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that protection of personal data is guaranteed. However, given the new challenges of the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data that emerged after the Convention was adopted, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a Protocol on 18 May 2018 which substantially amended and supplemented the provisions of the basic text of the Convention. It is practically a matter of modernising the Convention, which concerns new privacy challenges, and above all stems from the use of new information and communication technologies. At the same time, the internal mechanism of the Convention is strengthened to ensure its effective application. Therefore, the Protocol provides a clear and flexible multilateral legal framework for easier cross-border data flow, while providing effective protection in situations where personal data are used. The protocol is also a link between different regions of the world and different normative frameworks, including new EU legislation, which has been fully applied since 25 May 2018 and which is also called for a convention in the context of cross-border data flow. For these reasons, as well as the fact that confirming this Protocol on the one hand fulfils the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, as members of the Council of Europe, while further improving the protection of personal data, as one of the fundamental human rights, I propose that the National Assembly in the voting day confirm this Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73231	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73232	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, apparently other parliamentary groups don't want to take advantage of this time right now, but that's their right. I think today is a very important topic for the Serbian Parliament because we are talking about a protocol relating to the Convention on the Protection of Persons' Rights against Automatic Data Processing of the Council of Europe, namely private data that you can use in the exchange of data when it comes to today's digitalisation process in progress. It should be said that the legal basis for both this Convention and Annex 1, which refers to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Azerbaijan, is the legal basis of the Constitution, Article 99(1), which says that the National Assembly is obliged to ratify all international agreements, but this Convention that we are talking about was adopted for the first time in 1981 in Strasbourg and apparently that today's opportunities require, we have new challenges that require the modernisation of new conventions and that certain acts that would be covered by all these new challenges that have not been current since 1981. This obligation implies guaranteeing every natural person, regardless of nationality, regardless of the place of residence, respect for human and minority rights, especially the right to privacy when it comes to automatic data processing. Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also has this confirmation, the commitment of the state. Each country, a member of the Council of Europe, and there are 47 of them, has committed to respecting this right and to protect its citizens, and to new challenges, I have said, we are asking that a certain convention, as a platform, be clear, flexible on a multilateral level and that this is actually a legal basis in order to facilitate the exchange of data without jeopardising the personal data of each individual. The new law normally implies in fact and EU legislation, not only a member of the Council of Europe, but also the EU, and it is in fact the way that this Convention has begun its implementation in the EU itself. It shall apply from 25 May 2018. When we talk about when the first one was adopted in 1981, then many resolutions were adopted in the Council of Europe in 2011, then in 2014 and at the end of 2017, where it adopted the Committee practically this Convention with all its amendments. When we talk about this, the most important thing is that the preamble introduced, practically in this Convention on 28 January 1981, has shown that we can essentially do all these changes that occur in the era of digitisation, implement these conventions with certain changes and additions. This is what in fact European legislation has become flexible in this sense, giving us the opportunity to modernise every document, every international contract, every convention, and of course it gives Serbia the opportunity to adopt everything we adopt in this Parliament as valid documents concerning the modernisation of the economy and the exchange of data in general and to change it ourselves through ratification of this Convention. The second part of the international agreement is in fact a proposal to ratify the Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Azerbaijan. Also, the same legal constitutional framework, for ratification this parliament has, and should be said on 25 January 2012, was signed and the conclusion practically expired on 20 December last year, with the need to replace new ratification and a new agreement between the two governments. So, on December 26th last year, the government of Azerbaijan, through its embassy here in Belgrade, launched an initiative to sign this agreement signed in Belgrade and the object of realisation, in fact, projects in which Azerbaijani firms have proved to be very effective in building infrastructure, traffic, railway, road infrastructure. So the subject is, in fact, the ratification of this agreement, the realisation of projects for the construction of the Ruma-Sabac highway, bridge via Sava, fast traffic Shabac – Loznica, then all road railway infrastructure and the part relating to municipal infrastructure, such as water supply and waste water treatment, but also the part relating to purification, i.e. the rehabilitation of municipal waste. As we can see, there are no additional costs per Serbia's budget, as regards this agreement, as well as for this one, as well as for the previous convention. So in voting day, the SNS will support these two agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73233	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73234	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister with an associate, I would like to say a few words about this bill, about confirming the protocol, about amendments and additions to the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to automatic data processing. Before that, I would like to stress that this ruling majority, this government is essentially interested in EU membership, and essential interest means that we are harmonising our laws with the legal assets of the EU. This is very important to emphasise, as EU legal assets are incorporated into our laws and their application makes the country Serbia part and member of the EU. A formal recognition and formal entry into the EU will mean that the state of Serbia has done everything to apply from European flows to all EU standards. It is these EU standards that are necessary to the state of Serbia, because the state of Serbia is part of Europe and only membership will be a confirmation that we have done everything we are expected to do. We are expected to regulate the state of Serbia, not only within the legal framework, but also in all other standards that bind us. First of all, I mean highways, I mean waterways, sewerage, environmental protection, so all of those materials that the state of Serbia does and works to be an integral part of the EU. There must be a very important and very important and stable economic situation, because the stable economic situation, which has been achieved, gives us the opportunity to do all these things without becoming a part of the EU. What's very important right now is the protection of personal data. The protection of personal data for each individual is very important. We have new technologies, we have globalisation, and that exchange is very pronounced. We're all on social networks, and we often provide some data that we shouldn't give and abuse of data and how it can be dangerous for an individual and also for the state. It's no surprise that everything that means progress in computer and other technologies, means possibility and abuse, there are always those who want to do it. That is why we must have legal frameworks, which will allow all that is on social networks not to be misused, because the protection of personalities, its definitions, its religious, sexual and any other commitment must be protected. That information must not be misused. It is the state of Serbia, which has always accepted all these amendments and additions to laws and protocols, that is now incorporating into its legal solutions. That's what's very good, which means we're not lagging behind, on the contrary, in some things we go forward. That is why we support the Council of Europe Convention, because this Convention allows us to move forward and really do what is expected of us. You know, in order for someone to take your data, you have to give personal consent, and personal consent means you can't and shouldn't abuse it. That's what's very important, very important. These data must only be used properly for a simple reason, because they must not be misused, and only for those needs that are very important. What's very important to us, which is, we have some other information that we haven't talked about so far. You know, it's genetic data, biometric data. They're identifying a face. Also, the data whether it's a member of the union or not is very important data. If this is misused, employers can put it in a position for that person who is a member of the union to be in an unfavourable position. We're just bringing amendments and additions to this law that can't and shouldn't be misused. Technology goes very fast forward. I'm glad the state of Serbia has just accepted new technologies. Here, we're talking about 4G, the fourth industrial revolution, which means, the state of Serbia, if it wants to move forward, be better, be more prosperous, have all these new technologies to accept and improve, but at the same time there has to be a caution that these technologies are not being abused against individuals. So, the SDPS, which accepts all the newspapers, which accepts that the state of Serbia is one regulated country, an EU member, where the right of an individual will be respected, where the protection of each individual's data will be, and that is what bothers us more than that, to point out that we will vote for these amendments of the law, but also for all other agreements, because this means that Serbia will be a more prosperous country in the coming period. I also stress this because of the fact, because we're not saying something we can't do. We're talking about what we're going to do, do it, and Serbian citizens see these results. That is why I stress that the SDPS will vote in favour of these laws. One more thing. The law itself doesn't always bring what's most important. The most important thing is its application and control of the application of these laws. We therefore believe that improving the capacity of the Personal Data Protection Commissioner is also an important issue. Along with this law and this independent state body, I think we're going to achieve the goal we're talking about here. That is why I stress that in the voting day we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73235	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has been pushing for 20 years, since the fama and the dogma on European integration ruled Serbia, has advocated reviewing those decisions. As you know, the state of Serbia has never defined itself as European integration, but exclusively the ruling furniture that was installed in Serbia after 5 October with the aim of taking control, taking power and having all key institutions under its paw, and it has been going on for 20 years. We supported Serbia's orientation, the conclusion of an agreement with Serbia and countries that do not belong to the EU, in particular those agreements that are undoubtedly in Serbian favor, for one reason because, working with countries that are not in the EU, we achieve co-operation without political conditions and without political pressures that afterwards we have to pay a price that turns out to be much higher than we get, even going towards giving up on Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. So it's not over, it continues in Serbia and the EU's relations. Of course, more times and often lately, she has been present in public and talks about Serbia and Azerbaijan's co-operation. The world has changed very much, and the rest of the countries are no longer in the world, and both the EU and Western countries are not those forces that were during the 1990s or the EU from the time of the Mastricht Agreement in 1992. It is now a force at sunset, like Azerbaijan and many other countries are no longer just Soviet provinces, but it has proved to be economically very successful countries and that Serbia's co-operation with Azerbaijan is, in particular, and with others, very useful for our country. This is what we had the opportunity to hear from some official Belgrade representatives when they visited Baku and it should continue, not only with Azerbaijan, but also with Belarus, and with the Russian Federation, and with China. All these relationships need to be deepened. Given that I am talking about international agreements today, perhaps we should look into Serbia's position in international relations and Serbia's foreign policy, which is not sufficiently talked about and is not so often a topic of agenda in the National Assembly. We only had one chance here last year to discuss foreign policy when he was Minister Dacic and not once more. So, today we heard the news that the 18th state has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence, Sierra Leone, one of the countries that has recognised that independence among the first, and this is the job of Serbia's foreign policy, which is done in an exceptional way and should show any praise for success, and 18 UN members who have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence is certainly the success of Serbian diplomacy, but Serbia's rather position is contradictory and confusing. We had opportunities to see and that it was a ruthless, difficult struggle, a decisive battle to so-called. The republic of Kosovo does not become a member of UNESCO on several occasions and does not become a member of Interpol. Although most of the countries voted in those organisations for Kosovo's entry, there was not enough qualified majority, i.e. two-thirds of the countries to vote for it and the Republic of Kosovo has failed on several occasions to join those organisations, and that is also positive. We had the opportunity to see representatives of the regimes that represented themselves here as historic winners because of these successes, and the contradiction lies in the fact that if a legally binding agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the so-called Republic of Serbia is signed through a Brussels dialogue, i.e. the process of negotiations between Pristina and Belgrade, or Kosovo and Serbia. Kosovo, Kosovo opens the door to membership in the UN, and all of these countries that have withdrawn recognitions will also be considered to have recognised independence under the collective recognition system, and Kosovo's membership in UNESCO and Interpol will no longer be voted because these bodies are UN-sponsored and each UN member state is also a member of UNESCO and Interpol. So, we would also have a problem with the Serbian cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, monasteries and churches that would eventually become Kosovo, and we saw that the former minister of diplomacy is also so-called. Kosovo governments Bedžet Pacolli said on several occasions that the monasteries in Kosovo were not only built by Serbs, but also by Albanians, and from that is only one step towards the construction of Kosovo monasteries by Albanians. Also, if Kosovo becomes a member of Interpol, we already have announcements that there is the possibility of raising more than 10,000 indictments against military officers and police who fought in 1998 and 1999 in Kosovo and Metohija, which would be international in Interpol. We would get that with a legally binding agreement, or we would face these dangers. What, then, will be our praises for withdrawing recognition, for preventing membership in UNESCO and Interpol, if Kosovo becomes a member of the UN at the end of the process? All that work and all that effort will be in vain. Since these two processes are inextricably linked, Serbia's membership, i.e. Serbia's potential EU membership and recognition of Kosovo's independence, so Serbia's path to the EU is conditioned by recognition of Kosovo's independence and is no longer in hiding, and normalising a relationship that does not exist in legal terminology is in fact a second word for open recognition of independence. The state of Serbia should first review its role in the Brussels process and what benefits are for Serbia, which are tangible benefits for Serbia that stem from the Brussels negotiations. We have retired from northern Kosovo, we have solidified Kosovo institutions in northern Kosovo, and we have not received that community of Serb municipalities, and we have received a 100% taxi regime for goods from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are the consequences of the Brussels negotiations. We suspended the Constitution of Serbia. The constitutional court declared itself incompetent, and then we heard a call, not only from Albanians from Kosovo, but also from officials of the government of the Republic of Serbia to respect Kosovo's constitution, when the formation of a government in Pristina was to take place, the participation of the Serbian list in the government. It is today a confusion over Kosovo by the authorities in Serbia and our position which is extremely difficult because we made it so ourselves. So in seven years we got nothing, and we gave almost everything, or we gave everything but recognition. A logical question arises – why would Serbia go further in the process? Why wouldn't she question all this and participation, and position, and politics on that matter? Also, it is symptomatic for all authorities in Serbia since 2000 to call on Resolution 1244, parties that come to power afterwards only during a political campaign, during a pre-election campaign and during opposition action, and very quickly forget it when they form a government. That's how it happened with the Democrats, and that's how it is with the advances. There has never been an initiative by the government in Belgrade to respect Resolution 1244, or to launch the issue in the UN Security Council. It would be responsible for the state of Serbia not to agree with the negotiator, i.e. the mediator who is in fact on one side, such as the EU, because the EU has recognised Kosovo's independence as such, by having a feasibility study for Kosovo, there is no such thing as for regions, for provinces, for cities, for municipalities. Implementation studies are exclusively for countries. The European Union has sent a Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija aimed at installing the institutions of an independent Kosovo. How can this be an objective mediator in negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina? The responsible government would demand that these negotiations return to the UN Security Council where we would have a balance in terms of countries that have recognised independence and those that are not from permanent members, because the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, which are historic and solid allies of Serbia, will not allow recognition of Kosovo's independence and membership in the UN, and the situation can only change if Serbia gives up first, i.e. Serbia first confirms it. We already know that the European perspective for Serbia does not exist. This is no longer hidden from us, the European Parliament's MPs also say, the highest officials of the European Commission, said Emanuel Makron, repeatedly stressed that the EU will no longer expand. The European Union has no more commissioners within its enlargement commission, but has a neighbouring commissioner. What is now served to Serbia, after 20 years of failed negotiations where Serbia had to meet co-operation with The Hague tribunal to the maximum, thus being historically humiliated for delivering political leaders and military officers to a foreign court, a political court aimed at putting all the blame for the former Yugoslavia's collapse on the Serbian people. As part of that, the former president of the Republic, which is something unseen and historic shame. The EU received the 20 years and an independent Kosovo, i.e. declaring occupied territory independent, and now after 20 years, the doors are officially closed and Kosovo's recognition is wanted. The alternative offered to Serbia, which has also been welcomed very nicely here in Belgrade, is also "small Schengen" or the Balkan Union, so the union between Northern Macedonia, Albania and Serbia. We believe that this is not an alternative for Serbia and that this is not a good way for Serbia to achieve any benefit in international relations. We do not see Serbia's concrete interests in the Balkan Union, we do not see that our tourists will rush to Albania, we do not see that our products, or our companies, will be popular in Albania and will be represented there because they do not want us there. So this is the current situation, and here we hear messages from the regimes in Belgrade that this is a way for this entire region to enter the Balkan Union. The EU, Macedonia, Albania and Serbia. Is this something that a normal person can believe, that the union with Albania and Macedonia will help us with EU membership? No, we have come a direct message that we need to represent the EU's periphery, as such to be a resource and provide cheap labour, to be a polygon for experimentation, because what we are told and what is offered is not what is represented in the EU, and in terms of institutions and economic policy, etc. and in the future also parking for migrants, again something similar to the military landscape that the Serbs Precans represented in the 17th and 18th and 19th centuries. That is the essence and that is the role it is intended for the Republic of Serbia. Now it is time for the Republic of Serbia to give up on this, to no longer go to the closed door and to define itself for the increasingly intense co-operation with the BRIKS countries, which are our traditional friends and partners, and represent the richest and most prospective part of the world, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, which represent the future of the world economy towards Serbia's membership in the Euro-Asian Economic Union, where our products could be competitive, where we could co-operate without political conditioning and membership of Serbia in the Collegiate Security Committee, a military alliance headed by the Russian Federation. We, through membership in the Eurasian Economic Union and in the ODKB, can achieve economic prosperity and develop our economy without pressure and without any looting, energy security and achieve such a co-operation regime with Russia, where we would pay oil and gas at the prices paid in Belarus, which would mean a third less than the price now in force and security of the country if, in agreement with the Russian Federation, we achieved something similar to the NATO Pact and Article 5, which says that any country that attacks any member of NATO is believed to have attacked the entire alliance, if possible, to reach such an agreement with Russia, where it would be believed that whoever attacks Russia, has attacked the entire ODKB, we will ensure the country's long term security. Also, the SRS has been talking about the threat of the Serb people in Montenegro since December. Unfortunately, we do not deal with it, or Belgrade does not deal with it, there are few reactions coming from the regime. A UN Security Council meeting should be called for where the issue of the threat to the Serbs in Montenegro would be raised, where they would understand the seriousness of the situation and the regime of Milo Djukanovic in Podgorica, but also of all others, and in order to react against the constitutional and non-civilisation law on freedom of religion. I remind you, a criminal mob regime has been opened today in Podgorica, which arrests the MPs, who judge for fictional events with prominent Serbian leaders, even one of the leaders of the Serbs in Montenegro, Milan Knezevic has been harassed and arrested by the family. They are trying to take everything Serbian in Montenegro, from language, letter, to church and the situation is very serious. There were no reactions from Belgrade. The responsible state would act by introducing reciprocity measures, which is a known means of international relations in diplomacy, for example. if there are some prominent public figures, and more of them are growing, people born in Montenegro, and they have Serbian citizenship, even the last case was with this musical composition of "Belgrade Union", when they are banned from entering Montenegro, let's see if they understand the seriousness of the situation, so that the Republic of Serbia can't access its apartments, properties and its business in Belgrade and Serbia, and that we go to a counter-incentive to the protection of Serbs living there, who are very threatened and who are ahead of the decommissioning of the Serbian national corps and are facing it by the regime of Milo Djukanovic. So Serbia's foreign policy approach and politics towards neighbouring countries is unserious, irresponsible and should change as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73237	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Gjorge Vukadinovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73238	Interestingly, given the circumstances, I assume that it is an accident, we have two proposals that are not so large at first sight, but they are indicative, I would say of the current position of the political and economic Republic of Serbia. One is tied to the EU and the other to co-operation with Azerbaijan. In principle, both of these things can, as I said, be positive and when it comes to these technical protocol matters concerning the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Data Processing, it is desirable, it is necessary, and given that the modern world today looks more and more like the world of the Big Brother, where we do not know who everyone, where and at what level, follows, listens, uses data, abuses or uses personality data, from ordinary citizens to, of course, those who are subject to special interest. So anything that contributes to such control, although I fear that there may be some major controls, these abuses of personal data can be positive and can be welcomed. I'm just saying, it's a global problem at a global level, the world level appears and I say the modern world really looks the most like a world from some negative utopia, some very new world or some vision of the future where everything is being monitored, everything controls. However, it is an opportunity, regardless of what this Convention itself, as far as I'm concerned, can be positive and can be accepted, it is as in some discussions it has served a few colleagues from the government and the opposition, it can be an opportunity to tematicise this course and this orientation of Serbia and the foreign policy towards the EI without an alternative. A colleague, Mijatovic, on the one hand, and a colleague of Seselj, of course, spoke of it from different positions. It's not burnt, I think it's very desirable for this place, this home to be an opportunity to discuss how reasonable and reasoned it can be. Of course, my colleague Mijatovic was against, my colleague Seselj was against, and I think at the very least there is a reason to trouble this unalternative European path of Serbia, which should not, as it is usually experienced in both the work of the public and the part of the government, that it may be a cause for some attacks and calls like someone, I don't know, wants to push us into the past, into the dark and I don't know where. No, Serbia is indeed an old European country. According to various parameters, even today, even in this state, Serbia is above what, above some, I stress, EU member states. The problem is that when I say EU, then we or most citizens usually think of Germany, the Netherlands or Sweden, and some think of Bulgaria and Romania or Croatia. So, which is Europe or the EU, which is waiting for us eventually if we are waiting for us at all, not this EU, or the vision of Germany, the Netherlands or Sweden. There are many mystifications and I have no problem saying that this is something that previous authorities are more or less, or that previous government was on that same course, on that same line, even rhetorically even more aggressively, they insisted on it even more. By now, whether they believed in each other, whether they believed neither, whether they believed in that European future, we can discuss it. But the fact is that when it comes to EU membership, it means one European perspective, Serbia has a European perspective and, as I said, Serbia is a European country, but when it comes to EU membership, Serbia has no perspective and it is quite clear. Even if it were a good project, ideal for Serbia, in such an EU, this kind of Serbia that does not recognise KIM independence, in an EU that has problems with itself and does not know for itself what, from which one UK comes out, we are aware of the scale of this "Bregzit" earthquake and the exit of Great Britain from the EU. So, Serbia as a comprehensive country in the EU, even if we solve the problem of Kosovo, even if we are to reconcile with the way most EU countries and most of the most powerful Western countries see so-called. A solution to Kosovo's problem, even if we come to terms with it, and we cannot and should not make peace, Serbia will not again see EU membership, at least not in some foreseeable future, at least not in a future that is measured by our lives, whether younger or older. It's just, it's a situation, it's not hot, it's not good for European integration. I say, even if the candidate is great and there are no dilemmas and problems on that European path in which Serbia has part. None of us, particularly on this side, idealises the situation in Serbia, but I stress, this situation is still not worse in many things, many aspects than in some members or in some more advanced candidates towards membership, I think, above all, on Montenegro, which often stands out, which is a special curiosity, not to say comedy and farce, that Montenegro stands out as an advanced candidate and as someone who has done a lot on the European path. Those who say so, and many European officials, of course American, best show how much they don't know the situation in Montenegro or how hurtful they are towards Serbia, and probably both. In this sense, our European path has nothing, which does not mean that we should not accept any favourable, positive convention, guarantee, agreement, agreement or any solution legally, institutionally that can be used, but also for us as a state of Serbia whether it is a matter of economic co-operation, whether it is a matter of some legislation, especially when it comes to the environmental problem or to the aid of agriculture, or when it comes to certain things where the EU and its standards can benefit. Certainly, this model is not and this practice is not what we see, where both the EU and its bodies, and international financial institutions, most often act in harmony, offer solutions like this with the "Comerial Bank" where they literally force the state to sell "Comerial Bank", because the state is a bad owner, and then, as a buyer of the "Emergency Bank", a "NLB" bank appears in which, behold, the majority or largest small owner of the Slovenian state, the state of Slovenia. So, we couldn't manage, we weren't good owners, although the Commercial Bank, by the way, was commending the bank's leadership and those who chose and everything else, managed to clear their balance sheets, had been doing a good job lately. It is my best argument that it should not be sold then, but we are selling it and we are selling it to the NLB bank where the Slovenian state is a majority shareholder. In doing so, wonders, those who asked for the sale of the Commercial Bank and who insisted most on it, because of course the IMF and the IBRD appear as part of the consortium that buys the Commercial Bank. That other one, this American so-called. A US consortium where some of the owners are hidden again, the IBRD of which the state of Serbia purchased shares in the "commercial Bank" a year ago. Pay attention, buy shares for bigger money per share, for bigger money and the state of Serbia bought the IBRD's shares than it has now sold to the United Commercial Bank. It's just an illustration that powerful global, European, financial institutions, as they look at themselves first and, in fact, despite their beautiful rhetoric and sweet words, are not well-intentioned towards the countries they are allegedly helping, and this is about the bank for, watch out, reconstruction and development, and we see that they are actually about the development of them, these institutions, these banks and these countries, and not the states that are allegedly or allegedly helping. There are countless of these examples. I say, Kosovo or how most EU member states see the solution to Kosovo is something that is in itself a sufficient obstacle to some urgent and rapid approach to Serbia's EU, but completely independent of Kosovo, completely independent of what we are now looking for and what is expected, or what some want from us, it will not bring us closer to EU membership, that is the point that we here as MPs who do know a lot of things and understand each other clearly and openly have to say. Someone's gonna regret it. Someone's gonna regret it, someone's gonna be looking forward to it, but it's a simple fact, and it's a fact that everyone in this room knows more or less, although there's not much of us, but I have to tell the citizens frankly. In that light, the question is, of course, an alternative. The alternative is to cooperate with everyone, with everyone where it is beneficial to the state of Serbia. There is Azerbaijan, which is a relatively small country or country that has serious financial resources, after all, a large oil exporter with funds that it invests in around the world. Of course, again wanting to develop your and a good placement of your capital and your money that has thanks to oil. Now, that's about this second deal with Azerbaijan. No one can be against it in principle and, I say, we should diversify both our foreign policy and our economic relations. I mention here Azerbaijan, because Azerbaijan is the subject of this agreement and the agenda points, but of course we primarily think of other serious countries outside the EU, already mentioned in Russia, China, which is a world factor, absolute, probably dominant over several years or decades, but in any case huge, India which is a country of over a billion inhabitants that practically no one mentions here and some closer, of course, closer to us but friendly friendly countries. The friendly countries with which we are on the same line and which are on our line, above all, Russia. Is it on our line, which often manipulates and speculates, is it because of love and friendship? I believe, part of it, yes. Is it because of interest? Probably, too, yeah. But also those who support Kosovo and so on. Kosovo's independence and who supported the war in the former Yugoslavia, I don't know, Bosnian, Bosniak, Muslim or Croatian side but did it mainly out of love, but also out of some interest. As I remember not to mention, let's, when it's a longer exposure, and I commend this withdrawal of recognition and this work on the withdrawals of Kosovo's recognition. In the part of the Serbian public there is one species and cynicism and I would say bad and bad will that when a country withdraws recognition of Kosovo then it is said – well, it is a small country, there are so many and so many inhabitants, they are prone to corruption, etc. Well, when they recognised Kosovo's independence they were also small and prone to corruption, and then it was recorded as -- here, another country recognised Kosovo's independence. What do some now tend to do when Kosovo's recognition is withdrawn? So, this government and foreign affairs activity is something that must certainly be praised, no matter what side we sit here on. I think it's one of the few points of light and positive things that can be qualified. Unfortunately, it is a weak benefit if, in a number of other things, Serbia, the Serbian government, consciously and unconsciously, deliberately or out of trouble, actually helps or goes to the task of rounding up its sovereignty. Here I think, above all, of the signing of the Brussels Agreement, which was not forgotten even though it was in 2013, when it was practically allowed Pristina to round up its sovereignty, so-called. sovereignty in the territory of all Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. to carry it both across and north of Iber. That part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia that was not controlled by Pristina either in 1999 or in 2000 or in 2004 or 2008. So, during all these important and difficult events, the north of Kosovo and Metohija acted practically and in fact as part of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the allegations, the Brussels Agreement and the agreements signed by this government, so now we can talk about the predecessors, that's no longer the case. Serbs there are forced to take Pristina documents, there is nothing they can do without those documents. I'm even talking about northern Kosovo and Metohija, let alone enclaves. Then these agreements where you are directly swept by that Pristina with the help of its protectors. You sign an unfavourable agreement with Pristina, or with Kosovo in Brussels, the Brussels Agreement, and then you meet everything about you and your obligations, and Pristina does nothing about its obligations. But, look out, nothing! The formation of a community of Serb municipalities is almost forgotten, etc. Nothing! You are now, instead of being a cause to you, for every normal reason, that it is a private agreement, let alone an interstate or international agreement guaranteed by the EU and Brussels, you come and continue these negotiations, rather than being a reason to call off what you have fulfilled. Then they arrest a state official and drag him down as a criminal in Pristina and take pictures with him, I mean Mark Djuric. Then they form an army of Kosovo, for which they explicitly have no right. And all kinds of things happen there, they go up north, because now they can go after the Brussels Agreement, arrest whoever they want, and nothing. Our government threatens with decisive measures, and at the end of these measures there will be nothing. In the end, they bring in your taxes, and yet you announce God knows what and do nothing again. Now you are waiting for someone to have mercy to press Pristina to withdraw these taxes, and then we will continue negotiations, and negotiations are already very much in the water because in the meantime agreements on establishing air traffic, a railway line with Pristina, are being concluded to build a highway that is not of strategic interest to the state of Serbia, according to Pristina, rather than to Drac. You know who's interested in that highway. It's a NATO pact highway and is designed to facilitate the movement of NATO's troops and materials from Drac to the east. So, many of the concrete moves this government is making are the opposite of what is otherwise a positive one, such as this policy and the struggle to withdraw Kosovo's recognition. And it is always as an alibi, and as an argument, and what the predecessors have done, what they have screwed up. Of course, they've done a lot of bad things, but we can't keep turning everything around on those bad and evil predecessors. A lot of bad, unfortunately, has also been done by this current government when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and, as this example with the Commercial Bank shows, when it comes to economic policy, that is, concerns the economic sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The thing with the pain, the regret and the desire not to lose our right, we have to make a point. So it is time to draw a little line when it comes to European integration and when it comes to friendships and international co-operation. Without revolutionary some turns because they are never good, but simply sober, reasonablely, calmly show what the balances are and whether we really benefit from this "Europe without an alternative" policy and whether we really benefit from implementing every IMF request, and unfortunately we implement it, or almost everyone who is asked of us. First of all, privatisation. Most people here from the ruling coalition present and most of those who vote for them are not in favour of privatisation policy and have criticised and voted against the previous authorities, and this government has also sold what the predecessors did not do. "Smederevo" was fine, it made sense because no solution could be found. "Born" is not right, given the importance of strategically, given the copper, gold, reserves that exist there and given the potentials that exist should not be sold. The PKK shouldn't have sold. You have, as has been shown on the case of the Commercial Bank and the airport of your time, set up capable and good management, and then they'll sort things out, but don't sell. I'm saying your voters don't really want it, and I don't think it's in the interest of the Republic of Serbia either. With Azerbaijan, and I end it, we make deals with Azerbaijan, but don't let the agreement say, as it says in this agreement, I apologize and end it, that the projects under this agreement are not subject to the obligation to call public procurement procedures. Like when it comes to this agreement with Bechtel on the highway, as well as when it comes to agreements with Azerbaijan, why don't you check if there's a more favourable arrangement, and not make an advance commitment to making deals with Azerbaijan, an Azerbaijani firm or an American firm or any company, and then she takes her contractors and her subcontractors instead of being domestic performers, and only exceptionally, only when she can't and when there's no room for us to hire those sides? In our country, unfortunately, it is the other way around and whether you like it or not, the country's economic policy is not responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73239	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73240	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic ruled, did so, Mr Martinovic, the previous speaker supported their policy along with the cat Draža. They were two of Vojislav Kostunica's favorite characters. So there was a declaration of independence of the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija. If this government had ruled back then, it would never have happened. Why am I drawing conclusions like this? I congratulated these issues even partially on opposition parties, except for those yellow unfortunates, ruling parties, majority parties, the government, the president, everyone, the eighteenth withdrawal of recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. That's why it's hypocritical when someone's complaining to us, and during their government, it seems to me, a hundred confessions. In doing so, Vuk Jeremic was the chief assistant, in whose club someone is sitting here, as Kosovo's chief assistant of independence. They build their independence, Thaci, Haradinaj, and now Kurti. First, Kurti would not have been prime minister if Kostunica hadn't released him from prison, a convicted, legally convicted man. That's beyond a doubt. Secondly, Thaci even called on the United Nations to document Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the famous Murat, the age of Pozderc. And now someone tells us, when you try to get something out of anything, someone says Kosovo and Metohija, you, you, you, etc. Those who ran to the US Embassy to say they would not cross the red lines on Kosovo, but only if Boris Tadic were elected, that Kosovo Albanians would delay the declaration of independence until Boris Tadic was elected in 2008, that is what happened. Boris Tadic has sworn an oath, I think, on February 14th, is that so, Mr Martinovic, and Kosovo Albanians have declared independence 17. The way Tadic, Kostunica and others wanted to verify Tadic's choice first, and then move on. And, today, someone on this team, the cat Draža is dead, but those who survived, they're jumping us here, as we are, blaming ourselves for independence, and Hashim Thaci is calling for an opinion that we didn't need from the International Court of Justice, who sought, behold, miracles, not Thaci, but was looking for Vuk Jeremic in his name. So they base Kosovo's independence. He drew Jeremic, his politics, while in the government of Boris Tadic, but also in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's the facts. Now let's talk about Shabic. Face protection, it says face protection here. Do you mean a face like a face or a face? If you mean face-to-face, then let's ask Shabic what put his face at risk. As the concrete ran into Belgrade and hit him in the face, he complained, as you did from my town, from his town, and he tripped drunk. So, it's like he was at the bar and Sergei Trifunovic's pharmacy. He ran into the concrete, and then he wanted to accuse the government, because she didn't protect his face enough, that when he got so drunk and who knows what else, he went out on the street, and when he fell, he was wrong again. Well, that same independent protector can't even protect his face. Because he's happy to embrace and kiss concrete, so when he gets some injuries out of that love, then we're to blame, it's the same thing, like independent, hot, like, like that, being a protector, a trustee, a conspirator, actually, he's asking, what he's asking, of the VBA to deliver the paperwork to him. Imagine that. Well, we'd better give it directly to the Americans than give it to him as a mediator. We'd better give the British directly now, rather than have Shabic as our middleman. You don't think he wanted to when he got it to keep it a secret. Well, he got £80,000 from the British. He and the protector of the former, as he was called, the famous one who wanted to raise the revolution, so Vukic wanted to put it as Prime Minister Jankovic, the one who ran the Marinika, jumped from Canka to this Jankovic, from Jankovic to Zivkovic, from Zivkovic to Gilas, before that was LDP, St. Peter knows what was not, perhaps, one of Jehovah's Witnesses, not excluded either. Ladies and gentlemen, that same £80,000 he got from the British, that's 100,000 euros. So he got almost half of what General Simovic got when he caused the coup and the Serbs brought into the war in 1941, which we might have avoided. It would've been smarter if we'd avoided it than we'd paid with 1,200,000 victims. But that same Shabic was reportedly independent. He was a member of two or three parties only, two or three parties, so he's a little more independent than the marine, and then he's vice president of the assembly. Are you, Mr. Marinkovic, now an independent person? So, if the party proposed you to be vice president of the Assembly, you were vice president of the Assembly, and tomorrow you'll, for example, be the Minister of State Administration and then you say, well, he's very suitable because he's independent. Of which he was independent, when he had stronger functions than I, Mr Martinovic, etc., was a member of the legislative authority, was a vice-president of the Assembly, was a member of the executive government, was a minister of state administration and suddenly became an independent and became a confidant, a conspirator, etc. The fact that he broke into the pharmacy and the coffee shop of Sergei Trifunovic doesn't justify him. He led the campaign against the ruling majority, especially against Mr Martinovic and my little ones, which he wrote to them, but he did not sign them, because he would be responsible for falsely reporting a crime, but rather gave to his deputies, whom he led against certain members of the ruling majority, the public knows it and we know it. Ladies and gentlemen, let me talk a little bit about economics and success, not just foreign policy. Sierra Leone has withdrawn his confession. The Cat Drage would be happy, but I can see this other one isn't. He'd be happy, he was an honest patriot. That's why he died, because he was concerned about the co-operation of Vuk Jeremic with this NATO pact with the Americans, with Albanians, etc. That's why the poor cat died. So he didn't drop his sinful cat soul, he couldn't stand the kind of hypocritical policy that keeps repeating here, and maybe it looks funny to you. He saved all nine lives when he saw what they were doing. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last quarter of GDP growth, money is earned, those who are concerned, those who are smiling, whether they will get money from “Lutria” etc., the serious state is not playing luck, such as these Kostunica and Tadic's pets. You get something from "Lutria", "Lutria" you push it down to minus, etc. A serious state is looking to make money. Live from the earned, not only the in charge, inflation, etc., fraud, combinations, etc. GDP growth in Serbia in the last quarter was, as far as I know, over 6%, I think 6.1 or 6.2%, so don't hold my word, but over 6%. It seems to me that only Hungary in last year did something to paralyze Serbia against it. It means we've made an economic score. In the first month, it happened again. We have the biggest GDP growth in Europe in January, and that is what should be commended, which should be commended to the entire government, the Assembly, the opposition if necessary, except for these yellow mine-mining unfortunates, which are mined by their own state for the personal incomes of 120,000 dinars. Instead of working for the state, criticizing the government, which is not at all controversial, they can criticize what we did wrong and what we didn't do wrong, but they should come to work. Apart from them, I think everyone else is taking credit, and those who criticized us and those who supported the government are mostly the result of Serbia. Someone can be against the ruling majority, it's not at all controversial, but it shouldn't be against the state. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of growth in gross domestic products is significant, because imports are not only about broad-use goods, we have re-promaterials coming in, we have machines coming in, a significant part of our imports are machines and re-promaterials, which suggests further growth in gross-domestic products. And that's especially to be commended, because our imports, and imports of goods of broad consumption, etc., are covered by 30% more exports than it was during these yellow accidents. The rest is very easy to make up for investments that last year are 3.5 billion. That is why the course of the euro does not move, because the economy guarantees a stable course. In doing so, the exchange reserve spending rate is not maintained, but rather, foreign reserves are growing, and gold reserves have increased twice, while foreign reserves have increased by three billion in total compared to 2012. So, the course is not guarded, it is preserved by economy, production, is it so Mrs Tomic, is not being guarded by the spending of foreign reserves and has never been in Serbia or during the former Yugoslavia, the currency rested, the exchange rate rested for eight years. And that's why the government sometimes needs not only to be criticised, but sometimes to be commended on the other side. I repeat, those yellow unfortunates I don't count on in opposition. I count it on the unfortunates who work against their country. I'm not saying they're traitors, but if they're unfortunate, it can certainly be seen by any well-intentioned citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Inflation is a little over 1%, which means -- the cost rise to a little bit has increased by one point something. But to point to a rise in standards, that the volume of trade has increased in goods of wide consumption by 10%, which means if inflation is just one coma something, and you're wasting it, so there's no price increase to a small one, it hasn't increased 9% but one, and the volume is 9%, which means that our people live better than they did a year earlier. I think we can do it even stronger, even faster, even more seriously, and that seriousness certainly needs to give us this well-intentioned part of the opposition, its criticisms, suggestions, etc. Serbia has never made economic progress like it is now. She was heavy in the '90s, but from 2000 to 2012, yellow unfortunates maintained only by selling capital, selling foreign reserves, borrowing, etc. What we earn, they lived off the man in charge, not the man in charge. They didn't know how to make money, they only knew how to spend money. And that's why Serbia came where it came from, and then they were so vulnerable, with one battery-free plane, with one MiG-29 they were very vulnerable and had to submit to foreign political pressures and make concessions in Kosovo and Metohija, because they participated in independence, building an independent Kosovo, and a wild state. When I say this, I am obliged to tell my fellow Members - I am not defending power, I am defending the state of Serbia and its right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73241	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Gjorge Vukadinovic answered. On what grounds do you want? (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. He didn't mention you for a moment. Let's move on. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73242	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen and gentlemen, it is my pleasure that we can support, the Members of the People's Party of Justice and Reconciliation, the proposed solutions, primarily to improve relations with the Republic of Azerbaijan. It is very important that, with this country, as well as with many other countries of this region and other regions, we promote economic co-operation above all. It is a very interesting country, with serious potentials, where we can further increase and improve our trade and business co-operation at all. But what can also be interesting to me is that something can be learned from this country in a specific space, interesting and geopolitical, geostrategic. It is known that this country was once part of the Soviet Union, that it is multiethnic and multi-religious, interesting because of its numerous energy and mining findings, but also the country had a conflict several years ago, a still unresolved conflict of Nagorno-Karabah, where there were also armed conflicts, which threatened to threaten the peace and stability of the country in the long term, but also the environments. We have a situation where this country has succeeded, I won't say it solves this problem, but it has managed to make a certain turn and to actually position its economic development among its priorities. In a few years we got a country that instead of being on the world and domestic news every day through the conflict in the Nagorno-Karabah region, we get a country that not only makes an exceptional economic step, but becomes an investor country from the country, and not only in the narrow region, but also in the wider region, including this area here in the Balkans, Serbia, Montenegro and other countries of this area. They were then convicted, especially of various actors and factors from the country and around that they had in some way issued national and territorial interests, etc. However, now everyone can be convinced that it is a very wise and very brave policy, related to the problem. So I'm saying, maybe we, too, about the problems this country faces, can learn some lessons. We will also provide support and solutions related to the face protection protocol and personal data protection of automatic processing. This is a question that we treat multiple times from different points through different laws and the identification of various regulations. It's of paramount importance, because it's one of those questions that concerns what should be most expensive in a man, which is personal dignity and integrity of a person. Unfortunately, we are in time as well as in a space where there has been a significant reduction in respect of both the title and the practical respect for personal integrity and personal dignity, so that this topic should be more significantly represented in all our performances and through legislative activities, but also through other forms of social life that we can influence. It is important to improve this field too, because unfortunately there are numerous abuses, as far as our experience in the Sandzak area is concerned, these abuses have been most often about the elections. Well, in some elections we had fake ID cards that appeared, never processed, never found guilty. On the other hand, we also had abuses of the signatures given for the overa of certain lists where we later had some pressure on these people and so on, which is because of the choice of their regularity, but primarily in order to protect the personal integrity and dignity of man, it is necessary that we all oppose these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73243	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. The word has been made by Professor Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73244	Thank you. I have repeatedly warned that travel to the EU without Kosovo and Metohija is a double sword and that this practically means recognising Kosovo and Metohija's extorted independence, because we have a total number, minus five members, who recognise an independent Kosovo in the EU. Also, travelling to the EU at a time when the EU is leaving one of the most powerful members, Security Council members, an atomic force, a militaryly strong state, is a very worrying sign. Finally, to remind you of a statement made by academic Matija Bećković on 17 January 2014, and it is said – we are the only country that forced its citizens to go to the elections of another country in the 21st century, and that state which it does not recognise itself, to give up its country, to defend them in other people's countries, to give up our Constitution to respect the constitution of others. Congratulations to all those who have made an effort to withdraw the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija and I hope that this process will not be stopped, but I think that we, on our way to the EU, need to take some rest and examine where this leads us if neither Kosovo nor Metohija is in our composition. Secondly, yesterday, we were encouraged to have the Law on genetically modified organisms and not to require declarations of GMOs. It is true, but none of you have ever commented on why, despite having a GMO law, in which we have only one concept defined, and these are GMOs, why have we introduced an amendment to the Food Safety Act and genetically modified food defined beyond the provisions of the GMO Act? We define this by favouring or benevolently treating animals or people who need to feed animals with food that is from GMOs, and very irresponsible to humans, because in genetically modified food for humans we don't say it's for humans. In food, we don't even say it's for humans or that it's from GMOs. In the future of the new assembly, we should expect that we will also have a defined genetically modified waste, and not only the taking over of such an unbulful definition of genetically modified food that no professor of Serbian language, not to say the lawyer, would ever accept because it is incomplete and can mean anything and everything. Also, we finally have a problem that has been very intense in the last few days, which is migration as an organized invasion of Europe: "Only military men come, stop lying to us". I, not to be unclear, quoted with this great friend Alexander Vukic, Mr Orban, as saying on February 23, 2020. What messages can we get out of it, probably better knows the Deputy Prime Minister and interior minister who had a meeting with their minister yesterday, who was offering assistance to protect Serbian borders, so they don't have to protect the border between Hungary and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73245	Thank you, Professor. Marijan Rističević has the word [[What is it, a replica? Just so I know.)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to inform my colleague that according to the order of speakers who are publicly available the document, my smallness has the right to speak, to waste group time. Here, if I were to devote a part of my time to that, and you were chairing just nodding whether it's true or not, so my colleague wouldn't have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73247	He's exactly a colleague, everyone knows that, they have a list in front of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73248	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, flying tomatoes and cucumbers that bite and the pine tree that attacks houses has already gone too far. So, first of all, we don't need to be afraid of our citizens. Says the law on GMOs, so, the law is, to repeat to the citizens, a legally binding document. It's not a declaration. The declaration means you're up for something. The law is something that is explicit. So it's a binding legal document and by law, by declaration, you can't punish anyone, and by law you can punish everyone, because the law is for every law. You say what the law gave you, no one takes from you. That's what Valtazar Bogisic says and that's one of his rules. According to Article 2. – no modified living organism, nor a product from GMOs can be placed on the market, or kept for commercial purposes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, the GMO Act means a legally binding document, which, if violated, corresponds to that. As for doubt in the EU whether to catch a break or not, I have to ask the raspberries, I have to ask the apple producers, I have to ask both sides, one of the parties argues to break up relations with the EU, and there are those who would break relations with Russia, since our main apple buyer is in 90% of Russia's cases, I ask those who advocate breaking up with Russia, do they think our peasants won't be able to sell apples if we do that? Also, raspberries, 95% of raspberries are exported to the EU. Now I ask, should I give up the raspberries if I give up the EU or Russia, if I give up Russia? That's why I think the policy that the current government is leading, as an independent sovereign state, which is co-operating with each other, is the only real policy that guarantees economic progress. Two-thirds, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tomic, you confirm, is two-thirds of our exports related to the EU? The exports bring wages, the exports bring new jobs. This exports, like the one for Russia, carry new technologies, bring renewal of scientific work, etc. This is what drives the state – work. You can do anything by working. You can't help your country much by lying on the couch and critics. That's why energy should be spent in work, not in cafes, not speaking in bars, not going to the celebrations of Serbian hosts for Vidovdan, which no Serbian host has done. So if we give up the EU at this point that is not ideal, we should not do it. Let the EU see what it will do with itself first, but we should not give up in the pre-accession period, Mrs Tomic, the EU because the difference between destination and road is. On our way to the EU, we should collect all the privileges of pre-accession funds. Let me give up 184 million from IPARD funds because the EU gives them to our farmers. I don't think we should give up, but the EU, I agree, has problems with itself. Sometimes the EU looks like a 1989 Yugoslavia to me. Sometimes the EU looks like a 1989 Yugoslavia to me. I, too, am sometimes a skeptic, but moderate, towards the EU. But I want to use the way to the EU to get as much money into our country as possible, to renew not only the administration, but agriculture, processing, make additional value from agriculture, and that is what European funds offer on that path to the EU. I'm a little skeptic for Slovenia and Croatia, knowing the community that existed in these areas, where Slovenia and Croatia, which are used to not guard that community, but that it's being sucked out by parasites and that it's like an empty shell, are abandoning it. I am not sure that I can believe 100% in the community in which Croatia, Slovenia are. I think in that part, I'm skeptical and that the EU can have some problems. But, the EU, two-thirds of trade with the EU, is giving up money that is coming from the EU at the moment, would be wrong, as it would be wrong to give up Russia and give up China. If we give up the EU, the question is how many Chinese and Russian investors will invest here, because when they come to invest here, they also count on the EU market, which counts, I think, several hundred, but five hundred million people, as far as I know. That is why I think that the EU's denunciation policy is quite wrong, as is the wrong policy of giving up Russia and giving up China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73249	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73250	Direct mention. Mr Risticevic, it is true that over 65% of total trade in goods, trade with EU countries, but that does not mean that we have left out neither the Russian Federation nor the People's Republic of China. Of course, you didn't say that, but the exchange with the Russian Federation is increasing, precisely because we have stable co-operation on any new technologies, especially with EU countries. The structure of the product has changed otherwise. What was once taken up by agricultural products in co-operation with the EU, they now occupy, say, finished products or semi-products. That means we've opened up factories, new jobs, but also the IT sector. We have literally doubled over the past four years exports related to the IT sector and now the total exchange, when we talk about the IT sector, is over a billion euros a year, which means that this combination between, say, agricultural production, processing industry and IT sector is talking about the digitisation of our society which now gives results directly in the economy, to move from an economy based on knowledge-based investment in the economy. That is why the government can boast at the end of its mandate that it has indeed succeeded in thanks to European integration and co-operation with the Eurasian bloc, which also covers over 300 million people, the EU over 550 million people, so it has managed to be an irreplaceable factor in its responsible policy in general when it comes to trade from countries of the region. So no state in the Western Balkans region co-operates with the east and the west in this way. That's why we have extreme respect, which is why we're completely open and honest and what we say, and that's what we do, and when it comes to the East and when it comes to the West. You know what, when it comes to Chinese investments, Europeans all stay out of it somewhere, they don't like it, but everybody would like to get in line when it comes to their loans and investments, say, in energy or in infrastructure, because they have one brand that says they're simply the fastest, most efficient and the best building of road infrastructure, railway infrastructure, and there they've shown themselves on the market as the best investment. That's why it's always best to go to those who are the best. That is why when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, they are EU countries, Germany. When it comes to infrastructure, it's China. When it comes to energy, the Russian Federation. And why Serbia should not use these potentials equally well, because it is in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73251	Thank you. Professor Chevarlich, on what grounds do you want the word? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73252	Thank you. One thing is to break every relationship, and the other is to interrupt integration processes. If we don't know what that means, it's enough to read the papers of a professor of economics recognised in the area of the former Yugoslavia and Slovenia, Professor Messinger. But let's get back to the point of the question. I would ask representatives of the ruling majority and representatives of the government to explain to me, but also to the citizens of Serbia, above all, what does a legally binding agreement with Kosovo as a self-proclaimed state mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73253	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73254	It's because of Mrs. Tomic. Mrs. Tomic, you called me. So it doesn't apply to flying tomatoes and pickles that bite. Mrs Tomic, the legally binding document with Kosovo and Metohija does not exist. It exists in Vuk Jeremic's head, there is in Vojislav Kostunica's head, there is in Boris Tadic's head, who, for the sake of survival in power, allowed Kosovo to declare independence without moving a finger. They didn't move one finger, as they did during the March pogrom in 2004, and they didn't move a little finger while dozens of Serbian churches and monasteries were on fire, while the Serb people were completely unprotected and some failed either. They didn't move their fingers. They moved in 2001-2002 when they amnested 2108 Albanian terrorists, among them individually Kurtija, among them Flyor Brovina, or as it is called, this Albanian one is going a little better for me, the Mazreka brothers, who were accused of burning Serbs in Klecka, so 2108 Albanian terrorists, Mrs Tomic, released these Kostunicas, and released terrorists. The Martian pogrom, in order to preserve their cheeks, they allowed a group of hooligans to burn two mosques to make them look as bad as the Albanians. There, Albanians burned dozens of Serbian churches and monasteries and then a group of hooligans, fools, with the permission of the then government, did the vandal act in Nis and Belgrade, which pushed the stain on the face of Serbs. They didn't do anything, and now they're talking about a legally binding document. The legally binding document was what Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, worked at the US Embassy and said – if Boris Tadic is elected we will not cross the red lines given by the United States. It's in the notes, that's what Wikilix published. So I'm not making anything up. Anything can be found. If they had asked to renew power to Boris Tadic in exchange for those with that Kosovo independence to be able to pass, etc., and will not cross the red lines, but only if Kosovo Albanians postpone their declaration until Boris Tadic is elected, so that Tomislav Nikolic would not be elected and prevent independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73255	Thank you. Right on the line, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73256	For full information, therefore, the legally binding document shows that the Albanian side has never implemented certain points of the agreement or respected it. And when you hear European officials, you have the opportunity to hear that they themselves say that the document was not really binding, but it was binding at the time of Mr Vuk Jeremic, because then the decision in the talks in the dialogue in Kosovo and Metohija crossed from the UN to the EU. So there were some international obligations that someone signed. How do you explain that from one international organisation, negotiations move to another international organisation? After all, Mr. Risticevic, today is the strangest thing that you have changes in Albanian parties in power, now comes for Prime Minister Mr. Kurti, whom Vuk Jeremic calls the largest intellectual in KIM and which should essentially lead the negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. So that's the binding data, and the documents, and the contracts that we can talk about today because they're the result of that policy until 2012 which is being run by those who are now sowing our minds here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73257	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73258	Thank you very much. I'm really not an expert on politics, except for the agrarian, but for this policy, I'm not an expert and I don't know what the international obligations for signing new documents came from. If they were signed, for everything that was signed, and for which representatives of the assembly majority in the 2012 elections declared and promised to cancel them. Thus, it was either a false pre-election promise, or they did not know the matter when they made such a promise. I hope that in the next period it won't be a false promise, that agriculture will be singled out, not only 5%, as a minimum, but also 1% a year until it reaches 10%. This has been promised for the 2012 elections, and today is 2020 and we have damage to farmers in this period for 103 billion, if we apply the way the Supreme State Auditor for the period from 2012 to 2018, based on the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia adopted here in the 2002 to 2018 package without any objections, including any remarks we have heard about the former regime this four years, and we adopted their final accounts without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73259	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73260	Mrs. Tomic, I'm no longer allowed to mention flying tomatoes, pickles that bite? So that's where the recognition comes in, but I get it. You said the former regime had moved the UN negotiations to the EU, namely UNMIK replaced EULEX. I mean, except that they provided the International Court of Justice's opinion in favour of Albanians, where they sat exclusively judges from whose countries came the recognitions of this wonderful state of Kosovo, which means that Vuk Jeremic knew what kind of answer they would get, except that they acted on a favourable opinion for Hashim Thaci, they actually relocated the negotiations, as you say, and I agree with you, and I read that, from the UN to the EU. That's what they eliminated from the negotiating process, who? They eliminated Russia and China. There now some flying tomatoes that advocate co-operation with Russia and China have no power to condemn those on whose list he was elected because they eliminated Russia and China from the negotiating process, and likely with the aim of helping Serbia. Probably the goal was to help an independent wild state of Kosovo declared by Albanians on the advice of Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Djilas, Boris Tadic. Three days after Tadic's election, when Tadic fled to Romania because of a dissatisfied people, who gathered in the streets for it. That's what we all remember. If we had listened to such advice, if we had eliminated the CEFTA market, if we had a surplus, if we had eliminated the EU, where we had a surplus in trade for the first time with some countries, if God had not eliminated the markets of Russia and China, we would have violated the compatibility of our economic policy and then we would not have investments, and those who through us want to get to Russia and China and vice versa, that from China and Russia, through us, they would have come to the CEFTA bigger market and to the EU market. At this point, Mr. Marinkovic, we have a market of a billion people with whom we almost have duty-free arrangements and our chance is at it. Small countries can only survive by producing a lot of goods intended for export, to meet the needs of their citizens and to settle all debts and all obligations towards the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73261	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73262	Mr. Chairman, indeed after such a wonderful discussion and the replica of the ruling majority MPs, Mrs. Tomic and Marijana Risticevic, in principle – I to you, Duke, you to me, Serdar, is the question – should the rest of us speak at all and should this parliament need an opposition? If they already have unexplained accounts, I think we should hold a special session for the ruling majority MPs, or call on the topic, for example, Mr Zukorlic and Mr Vukadinovic, who is the real representative of the national minorities. It's all we haven't heard today. I think Mr. Zukorlic would explain it great, and I don't know how to handle Mr. Vukadinovic. All in all, today we have a very important item on the agenda, and this is the proposal for a law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement on Economic and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. What we need is, of course, this kind of agreement is also needed, and the first because Serbia and Azerbaijan have no open issues, they support each other for preserving territorial integrity and integrity. What is very important to us Serbian radicals is that Azerbaijan is a state that has not recognised terrorist, false, whatever you want, the state of Kosovo and which has taken a step further, which is that they voted against the reception of so-called. Kosovo states in Interpol. What is also very important is that we should view this country as a really serious economic partner, not a strategic one. We need a strategic partner to be China, to fully integrate with the Russian Federation, but such agreements with such countries, which in previous years have positive economic growth, are also necessary, especially if this is the state that is among the world's first 20 countries with proven oil reserves. When we talk about agreements like this, the question arises – why does our state of Serbia, why does our government, why does this regime fall into its own mouth? On the one hand, we have agreements that are good for this country, and on the other hand we have to ask a question – what are we going to do in those where we have only obligations and we have no rights, such as CEFTA? Here's how long it's been, and Kosovo's terrorist state taxes towards Serbia are still in effect. The promise of the current Prime Minister, when they did, was to sue immediately after that, and no later than three months, but that didn't happen. Here it is, if I haven't been wrong for over a year, a year and a half will now almost and, of course, Serbia is doing nothing, as if it were in our interest and the statements we get from the representatives of the regime in the mildest form of the word are insidious. On the one hand, we have good news today that another state has withdrawn the so-called confession. An independent Kosovo. It has even been announced that there will be another one in the next few days. If I am not mistaken, there is now a greater number of countries in the UN that recognise the integrity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, not those that advocate so-called. Independent Kosovo, but then the question arises as to how it is possible to say – you know, we stand only for peace, even if we are told in translation, they will take away part by piece of territory. That was the last statement by the president of the state after the talks with the American representatives, where it was said that, well, they heard us, they heard our problems, but we disagreed on the issue, but here in advance to say we don't want any conflicts. What kind of message are we sending to the opposite side that just took our territory by war and is now under occupation? Will it happen that it ends at a small door and then happens to us as years later, that no one from the ruling regime, just as the Republic of Serbia does not mention the Krajina, will even mention KIM? Has the SNS government raised the issue of Republika Srpska in front of any international institutions in eight years? Is the question of the occupied territory raised? Why do we continue to act and withdraw in defensive action when it comes to our people being expelled from these territories, a large number, unfortunately liquidated in the most monstrous way? What are these forces where, like today's, where we make an economic partner, the future Government of the Republic of Serbia will take a course towards strategic partners? Are these partners who want to work together on economic issues on the basis that are positive for both parties, or are we going to co-operate as you say, and that is not co-operation by making a big profit, and the other side, unfortunately Serbia, is a huge loss? What are the official indicators when we talk about economics and co-operation, and we talk about official data at the end of 2018, when it comes to external trade in goods? Were we in surplus or deficit? According to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the coverage of exports was 74.3% and is lower than in 2017. Do we need to be satisfied that we have much greater imports than exports? Where does that import come from? I understand that we are importing mangoes and bananas, but I cannot understand that the state is blind to the fact that it invests in agriculture insufficiently so that our farmers, peasants, are competitive on our market, because they are now not able to be competitive on our market, let alone in EU markets. Pompa rose when the Russian Federation called on Serbia to join the Euro-Asian Economic Union and there we had some information on the shortcut where Serbia finally decided to sign a Free Trade Agreement with the countries of the Euro-Asian Economic Union on 25 October last year. At that time, it was said by representatives of our regime that the agreement is not contrary to Serbia's European policy, in fact, Ana Brnabic said and then said it was an economic, not a political agreement, and that it was complementary to Serbia's European policy. First, first of all, we unfortunately did not become a member of this alliance, but that agreement only extended the list of products from Serbia that can be exported to the territories of the Eurasian Economic Union, and because of the citizens of Serbia, when you try to deceive them with stories that co-operation with the EU is successful for Serbia, Serbian citizens, farmers, businessmen, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, should know that the agreement they had for certain products and products with the Euro-Asian Economic Union is identical to that of the Brother Russian Federation, which is that they are free of customs. There is the only possibility that if the state has a serious policy, five-year plans to start, the strategy for the development of the economy can be competitive and thus, if you are already declaring itself, hopefully all, for the restoration of the village, as it is said, the preservation of the village and the return of people to the country, then it is also necessary to give support to the legal, procedural and direct. With this agreement then, which Ana Brnabic signed at the time, only an increase in export quotas for goods subject to restrictions and a wider zone of free trade in Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. So it's just a quota increase. What is important to us is that, in addition to hearing that we simply do not have a problem with the EU, EU Vice-President Maja Kocijancic answered immediately in a statement to Radio "Free Europe" and pointed out that Serbia can conclude agreements with other countries and organisations before EU accession, however, these agreements must comply with the commitments Serbia has made under the Stabilisation, Association between the EU and Serbia Agreement, and is estimated from case to case. In the context of EU accession negotiations, Serbia has pledged to withdraw from all bilateral free trade agreements, meaning both with the Euro-Asian Economic Union and with the Russian Federation, with those with whom we have a duty-free export option and where we can be competitive, on the day of our EU accession. Now, what was interesting to hear. Dr. Marijan Rističević said here today, Professor Marijan Rističević, academician Marijan Rističević presented a very interesting formulation here today. He said - we should not give up our way to the EU, but we need to use the path to the EU because of the European funds we need to take. Imagine, we, one Serbia will cheat on the EU, the EU's largest force. One Serbia will cheat Germany, France, Spain, Italy, we will take their money. They'd probably cheat on the Great Britain, but we're not able to do it now, because in time, they were saved and fled from a sinking ship. Indeed, in the next term, I expect academic Risticevic to be the foreign minister at the very least, because such a policy can promise Serbian citizens to sit at home and not have to do anything. But there is a small problem, Academyman Risticevic did not listen to Emanuel Makron, who said that in the next period and not so close to the future there will be no EU enlargement and that the largest member, the biggest representatives, the EU's largest countries should be restructured inside, and that they will likely be restructured, according to academic Risticevic, that the great countries of their privileges, their powers are transferred to the first, the countries that need to join, give them everything, then join and be the leading forces of Serbia and Bulgaria. Croatia probably won't, since we have enemy relations with them. It's the best thing we could hear today, and then in replicas with their coalition partner, they've been giving us information about all the successes we can still get about this kind of economic policy that we're running. I truly believe that after today's exhibition and the economic concept that you have presented, that Mr. Alexander Vukic will surely take that concept for the election campaign and in the next period, in the next government if he is, then he will create a truly golden age with that concept. Until today, we have been on the road for the golden age, but today's concept I believe that the future Prime Minister of the Government will ask Mr. Rističevic to write exposés for the future Prime Minister and it will probably be from introducing a multi-party that the first time 250 MPs have voted for it. For if I, as a father of two, wait for the praise of God the third, if this is fulfilled, I will have to do the fourth and fifth, for living in such a land of prosperity will be a real delight. I must admit that I will never again be involved in politics and on whatever list Mr. Academyman Risticevic was, as in 2000 until today, since he was on various lists, I will follow only where he is, to round up the economic concept we heard today. To deceive the EU in this way, this reminds me of the movie "The Third Reich Robbery". If I'd seen that movie, I'd have thought academic Risticevic was the lead actor here. They managed to rob Berlin, win World War II, and you managed to break into pieces of the EU today, and I really expect Serbia to take the path of prosperity with today's concept. What was more interesting, and that is, when you talk about the way to the EU and say, no, we will not, but rather use them, you probably think that we are using them in principle that they are openly threatening us by taking away Kosovo and Metohija, how they insist on us taking over and receiving in the country a number of migrants, you probably also think that this time is the right way for us to interfere with the internal issues of the state such as these elections and those who are not here today to determine the electoral laws and to explain to us what democracy is, all of which are sent by some former MPs and thus prove that we are minor to them, that we must be humble, because if we do not sit down with them, we are not smart enough to bring the right laws here. You see, that's where we Serbian radicals disagree with you, and unlike you and the likes of you, we don't sit with those who, in that way, bombed us just as unconditionally as they have now sent us and tried to explain to us that we should sit down with some kind of Jeremic, Gilas, or I don't know what they're called, who for God's sakes boycott these elections. As far as I'm concerned, not that they should boycott them, they don't need to deal with politics anymore. They were old enough and they were in power, we saw how much they knew and knew. Unlike your economic concept, their economic concept will unfortunately convince itself for another hundred years. They destroyed all the factories, destroyed the banking system, there's nothing they didn't destroy. We simply have to be more serious about some things and return to this House what is needed, to talk here, to law-making unequivocally, and that even if we have problems, we solve them all here together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73263	Slowly fellow Zukorlic, you too have the right to a replica, but first, a colleague, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73264	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you've allowed a little more personal address. I'm not an academic, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a doctor, and this is the first time someone's called me that. Perhaps, Mr. Martinovic, for some, despite my lack of a degree, I am a doctor of science. I offer to compare my knowledge with anyone, it's undeniable. When someone says I'm waiting for a third child, I always think it's a woman. I don't know what you think, Mr. Chairman? But on the EU, I did not say that we are going to cheat on the EU, but we will use all the funds the EU provides during the pre-accession period and that the difference between the road and the destination is, and I will not decide whether Serbia will enter the EU, but that will be decided by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, even if I am alive at that point. So it is normal to have a referendum and that citizens at the end of that road have determined whether or not they are for the EU. At this point, we need the EU market, and I was saying that because of Russia and China, that Russian and Chinese investments would come into our country by counting on that market of over 500 million people, is that so, Mrs Tomic, that's what I'm talking about. I was saying that we should use every pair, and I'm a little skeptical about the EU because Slovenia and Croatia, the Republic, or the countries of the former republic, are prone to breaking up complex state communities, which was the case with the SFRY. So, we don't cheat on the EU, we use their market, because our current position allows it, as we won't give up Russia and China, we won't give up the EU or CEFTA markets, that's what I'm talking about. In the end, I always get over 20% in my constituency and I don't want to replicate to anyone who barely throws up to 1%, 2% anymore. I'm not an academic, I'm not a science doctor, and I'm not a brother or a patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73265	Right on line, MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73266	It is interesting that this interest of Serbian radicals in national minorities and I would understand it in the best way, especially if in the intonation of my colleague Damjanovic I felt nothing negative. So it's clear who the real representative of national communities and national minorities is, and certainly it's not polite to even check it out. For me, however, it is more important that the right way is represented by the national communities in this country. Four years of my representation here and another colleague from the Justice and Reconciliation Party confirmed it uncontestedly, and therefore all of those 30% of the national communities and minorities in this country who have their representatives or do not have their own, could be sure of the authenticity of our representation of the interests of all members of the national minorities, but also of all citizens. In fact, our representation of national minorities is not from the corner of the national minority itself. We belong to that belief where possible, we believe that the same political platform is possible to create, represent, which will not be antagonised between national minorities and the national majority. Because it's right, justice is justice, the truth is the idea of reconciliation is the one that should go beyond that by now. Now, I hope that also Serbian radicals, given that radicalism is not political ideology, but methodology and even more methodology, that after 30 years of this very rich political experience with various points of turn and risk will open a new page towards national minorities, especially Bosniaks, which would certainly represent a new quality in this National Assembly, but also in all international relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73267	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Zukorlic to a large extent with what he said, because we can, for example, he can be on my list as a candidate and I could be on his list, although his list is minority, the difference will not happen to either of us because there are political differences between us, but there are, of course, things that we agree on, with that I cannot go beyond what he supports, although at a distance, but supports the current power, and I constructively, but I criticise it and I seriously criticise the current power. However, what is undeniable is that the previous chairman, of course, has now changed, sinned seriously on good customs and on the Rules of Procedure, has not given me the opportunity to respond to the direct and indirect calls of some MPs, and it is much more important in fact for today's sittings, as well as for the work of this Assembly. Since the unserious and irresponsible focus is not only on Euro-integration but also on the recognition of Kosovo and politics in general, there is always an opportunity to accuse some predecessors, in one way that does not personally tang me, but I just don't think it's fair, it's not fair to accuse someone because in his time something happened. Some of them must be responsible, but you can't charge them. He says -- Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, in their time Kosovo declared independence. Well, during your government, i.e. some previous authorities, Kosovo is separated from Serbia, occupied, occupied, so I have never criticised the then government and Slobodan Milosevic, as someone here is now trying to criticise Vuk Jeremic, Vojislav Kostunica or Boris Tadic. We're looking at what who did, how much who could have stopped it. Or the prince of Lazarus who lost the Kosovo battle, if he ever lost. He didn't actually lose, it was more unsolved, but anyway. So, what I'm saying is that it's not correct, to affirm your position, all the trees and stones you put on the predecessors, but rather look at what we are or what you are, what the current government has done about it, and it hasn't done much, I would say, when it comes to politics and Kosovo, or when it comes to economic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73269	The People's Messenger has the word, the Right to Replication, Miljan Damjanovic, and then Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73270	Thank you. I didn't really mean anything by it when I used the term academic for Mr. Risticevic. I am aware that, of course, he is not a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, but I simply made a parallel because of what he was saying from an economic point of view, that this is indeed the level of an academic. I don't think it should be too controversial here. I may have been quite convincing about a number of colleagues, so he accepted it in a negative way, but I did say it because of what would have been successful, said what would have been the result of such an economic policy. But on the other hand, I would stop, because replicating academic Risticevic told me that he is in his electoral unit taking, winning, however, 20% of the votes, then I believe that academic Risticevic will go to these elections on his own, because Serbia is one electoral unit. Now believing that academic Risticevic is a young MP and a politician and is only slightly more than 25 years in parliament, whether he simply forgot or did not participate in changes to the law, but the electoral unit is one Serbia, and the polling post is completely something else. So maybe we should discuss whether he thought he was carrying 20% in his polling post. Let me answer to Mr. Vukadinovic as well. It wasn't Prince Lazarus who lost the battle, nor was it unsolved, but the Serb army won then.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73271	Right on line, MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73272	It is just by telling counterpart Vukadinovic that, after four years, he recognized the authenticity of my political performance here in this Assembly and, above all, the representation of the national communities of national minorities. However, it might be much more politically profitable for him if he recognized it at the beginning of his term, so that he joined my political camp than he was wandering with the wrong partners. I don't know now if we have time to fix anything from those failures. However, what is certain, therefore, over four years he could have noticed something else, that on my political authentic experiment there is no general, but also in this Assembly black and white technique - only the government or only the opposition, it is possible to be a ruling majority partner, but also to have your authentic political discourse, to have your own personal credibility, to have your own position, to agree with all that is to agree and support everything that needs to be supported, but also at certain times when you have a different political opinion to express this different political opinion, to vote for certain laws, not to vote for certain laws, and yet not to compromise that partnership. So, I'm proud of, first of all, my own position and the position of my party in this way, but also that on the other hand, by the ruling majority I had an understanding of one such course. True, this is my first term and it was the beginning, and I am sure there is still much we can do to develop a broad range of mutual and tolerance and understanding of political but also national-ethnic diversity in this Parliament and in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73273	Thank you. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73274	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic, for not saying I was wandering. I think I have the same political attitude, not just during these four years, but in a very long period. Perhaps you too could have been transferred if you'd been wandering. I think you're on a better course now than you were. It was also in your policy of radicalism, I would say excessively, whether youthful or not, however, but I support and welcome not that you support power, but I support this constructive and state-of-the-art position that you are currently really here during this term. It's true, mostly things aren't black and white in life or in the world or in politics. As for what counterpart Damjanovic said, of course, we can now, or better historians, than we here quote what happened, whether Prince Lazar lost or was it unsolved or won by the Serb army. Anyway, it's not that simple either. We know how difficult things are today to tell what they are and how they are, let alone centuries ago. But what was the point of my exposure, and I don't think he's going to deny it either, is that we can't automatically transfer the outcome to someone who was in power at that point. We can judge concrete moves, right or wrong. So, as we will not transfer the outcome of the Kosovo battle to Prince Lazar, however it may be, neither automatic government nor Slobodan Milosevic's bombing, which otherwise many do either one good part of the public does or does, especially after 2000, so he is guilty of everything by losing Kosovo. I have heard this many times from colleagues, from the media, from journalists and politicians – Milosevic lost Kosovo. Admit it, because Milosevic lost Kosovo. They've said it a hundred times. I never understood it that way. But also, then don't you when it suits you to say – Tadic and Kostunica lost Kosovo, if it were Vukic, it would never have happened. Well, we don't know what would happen. After all, Vucic was in the government in 2000, or 1999 when he was possessed, occupied or already wanted to use a word – busy Kosovo. Well, I still don't think that's because of that fact, that authority. She's guilty of some other things, and that's why I criticized her. So much so that I won't be crossing more than it's decent for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73275	Right on line, MP Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73276	My alleged political radicalism, a colleague of Vukadinovic, could be seen in two cases. One was since 2007 and then, when your political companion, then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, sent Muslims to Sandzak and their Islamic community various police forces with beatings, boots to take away our mosques, to rob us of the property of the Islamic community. If then you expected me to answer you with an olive branch and a pigeon in your hand, I think it was an unreal expectation. Then we definitely responded as it was appropriate, we defended the mosques, we defended the property of the Islamic community, dignity, the right of that community that was guaranteed by the Constitution of this country and the laws guaranteeing us the equality of all citizens and which oblige the state to protect us when we were threatened, and not to have its mechanisms used against it. The second, truth false, picture of our radicalism was actually what you could read and watch in the media that satanized us and represented us from Sandzak here to Belgrade. One of my motives for coming to this National Assembly was this, because I realized that the picture of me, my work, my work, my general, but also the political views did not come authentically from Sandzak to Belgrade, and that's why I said, I go to Belgrade, I go to the National Assembly, I go to the media to present myself, my people, my culture, my faith, my political thought. Now you've been able to get to know me firsthand, without certain media or my political representatives creating a picture of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73277	On what basis, Mr. Vukadinovic? (Jorje Vukadinovic: I am mentioned directly in the presentation. Come on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73278	Madam Chairman, we have watched here and you, besides, have witnessed many times how representatives of the same parliamentary group and certainly the same majority of each other grieve, as young people would say, are called to confirm their words and then receive replicas, praising each other and thanking together the policy of the current government. Me and Mr. Zukorlic are definitely not like-minded, but here, I will no longer report on this basis, so I think we understand each other, I do not dispute that he is an authentic representative of the part of the Bosniak community in the Republic of Serbia, and I think he is well, anyway, if his voters agree with that, then I have no objections. As for that, radicalism, often the media really cooks things up and can play in the interest of those who give orders. But he himself called for the 2007 situation when the government of Vojislav Kostunica said it was kidnapping temples, etc. I think it's a bit of a simplified picture. There were words of a conflict inside, I can't get into those details now, he certainly knows it better, but I think it was about a conflict within the Islamic religious community, where he was one side, was the other side. What I certainly know is that this government, which I have and how I have criticized, and I did not agree with some parts of their policy, but it led one reasonable, responsible state-of-the-art policy when it comes to national minorities and when it comes to relations with the opposition. I would remind colleagues from the ruling majority that at that time, the leaders of the two largest opposition parties were chaired by two main committees, two main assembly committees, the Administrative Committee and the Security and Defence Committee, if I am not mistaken. So whoever they were, it wasn't Vojislav Kostunica's choice, they were Tomislav Nikolic, if I'm not mistaken, and Dragan Sutanovac, but the leaders of the two main opposition parties chaired two main assembly committees. Can you imagine a situation like this today, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73279	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Replica, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73280	I am not sure that it is correct until the end that fellow Vukadinovic, therefore, the extent of which part of the Bosniaks I am a representative, but if he wanted to be correct, it is certainly a majority part, which has been proven many times. And I will never give myself the right to weigh what piece of the Vlach community is colleague Vukadinovic's representative, because it is not polite on my part. As for the analysis of violence against the Islamic community in 2007, they also cannot accept as a correct claim that was launched by those authorities at the time, the two sides argue, so we intervened, truthfully, to help our side, which they artificially and produced, but with respect for overall sensitivity whenever religious issues are concerned, especially regarding important issues of that faith. But I won't avoid not mentioning, only parallels do, what's happening in Montenegro now. Imagine now what it would be like for someone to say – if, you know, there are two sides there, and now the authorities of Montenegro are arbitration between the two sides, arbitration as they are arbitration. So it's perfectly clear what happened in 2007. So, that power stuck to those ultranationalist, extreme and irregular methods to make itself an Islamic community, it didn't like traditional, rights, existing ones, which have all their infrastructure, but rather wanted to customize their policies to make some kind of quasi-Serb Islamic community, in fact all that we have after that is due to it. It is a failed project that has caused major problems among Muslims in general, especially among Bosniaks in Sandzak, and should definitely learn from this and certainly that this government should clean up the remains and consequences of such failures and such mistakes, so that in the future they will never again be in a position for one authority to make such mistakes and such problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73281	The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73282	I really hate to continue now, Mr. Zukorlic, and I don't mind your being the last, especially since you know better, even though you are an interested party, what was the situation back then or now in the Islamic religious community. But I wouldn't have reacted, including this shipment at Vlach's expense, if it hadn't been for this association, I'd have said wrong and a little trendy, to the situation in Montenegro. So, I'm not saying that these two are exactly equal or I don't know any sides, but it won't be that now it's the power of the then government that has shown its either restraint or correctness and democracy towards the opposition while it's the ruling majority here and here in parliament and otherwise in public life, it's probably the only authority that hasn't had a majority in the media and has not had dominant treatment in the media of all the authorities and from the 1990s and 2000s to today. So, if she had such strength and interest that there were some too many mixers within the Islamic local community, even though I allow them to make mistakes, I allow there to be some mistakes. But, Mr. Zukorlic, your attitudes back then were really, let's say, radical, not to say a different word, and they were very similar to what Mr. Ugljanin is saying today, very similar to what Mr. Ugljanin is saying, sometimes even more radical. So what you would say now, from your experience, from your current position, is that the government should react, even this current government, and that's also something that I object to this current government, Mr. Ugljanin's statement. This is not what she said now, it is not from the third hand, I am talking about what I heard personally with my ears, and it is to the representatives in these talks, in this dialogue what is either Mr. Ugljanin himself or his MPs or representatives what they said to the representatives of the international community, the European Parliament about Serbia, about Sandzak, that dog with butter would not eat. It's absolutely scandalous and I think it's a mistake and a shame that the state doesn't react one way or the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73283	The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73284	The very formulation that my mention of the situation in Montenegro may also tend to point to a problem that, unfortunately, remains very present with us. So if your cow stabbed my cow, then it's one law, if my cow stabbed your cow, then it's another law. In other words, my pain is more than yours and we can't agree on it. I purposely, but I did not tend to mention the situation in Montenegro, because anyone who wants to be correct and fair can, in fact, make the best conclusions comparatively. As for the radicalism mentioned again, I never had it. I've had a sharp reaction, but if anyone wants to deal with it thoroughly and objectively, they'll see in the order of moves whether my sharp attitudes, which my colleague calls radical, were previous or latter. There's a whole point, if you're really interested in the truth. They were always the latter. Why were my views not at the time of Zoran Djindjic's rule, when we had co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia, and very active? As a result of this co-operation, it was the launch of a number of positive processes in Sandzak, the establishment of the University and other institutions and the establishment of a new atmosphere, where even then, as a mufti, I agreed to travel with a number of delegations to the United Arab Emirates and then spoke affirmably about the Republic of Serbia, which in 2001 was not easy for a Bosniak, or Muslims. Therefore, all my strong views were the result of an organized violence, the abuse of the state towards us, and of course, especially this now parallel with the Ugljanin does not stand, and it does not stand in the sense of the reaction, as you can see, because it is obviously about some other relations and no matter the principle of attitudes or reflections or the consequences of behaviour towards Bosniaks or Muslims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73285	According to the schedule of the Members of the People, the People's MP Milorad Mircic has. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73286	Ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything about the agenda, I feel like gentlemen are talking about radicals and radicalism as communists who haven't realized by now that it's changed a lot, but they've gone to globalists. The only thing that is justified is that it has roots in the political life of this Serbia radicals and radicalism. The 19th century encourages radicalism in Serbia. There's another idea, and that's the idea of a socialist. All of this is done, all of this is artificial, like doctors are fake, and those who are real, and these political parties, their attitudes, their ideas, they're completely fake. Time has shown it's just copies of bad copies. I don't see any reason, especially some colleagues, who, in their act, are talking about radicalism, of course complaining about it as something that's negative. There is only one policy for us Serbian radicals, only one idea. As a civil party, we are open to members of all nationalities, so we do not make us as a civil party that defined it in its statute. Leave those who boast that they have civic views, that they have principles that unite everything, but they are not in the statutes of their party, and we Serbian radicals are clearly defined from the very beginning of the functioning of the Serbian Radical Party, we are a civil party. Anyone can be a member of the SRS, and we are particularly recognizable for the protection of rights and respect for the rights of national minorities and ethnic groups. Remember only, the first in mankind's history minister to be in one government in the world is SRS member Joja Damjanovic, Roma. There were members of the Hungarian national minority who were prominent officials and today the SRS officials are prominent, so talk about it with Serbian radicals obviously knocking on the wrong door. We can talk about understanding, about common views, but that it moves from the position that we Serbian radicals rule out possibility and that after 30 years we should change, what would we change when we're like that. So we'd be changing something that's contrary to the basic principles of the SRS. I don't see why some colleagues here get angry when my colleague Miljan Damjanovic respectfully makes them into academics, given what these quasi academics are like, it's also a personal confession. Too bad some people don't really have that title. There's no reason to tighten or increase the temperature when it comes to this kind of debate. We are here to discuss a convention relating to the protection of faces and facial data when it comes to the automatic processing of data on these persons. How many international conventions, gentlemen, so far adopted, that no one can say exactly the number, and as much as they are respected, that may be counted on the fingers of one hand. Just remember that there are countless conventions that oblige the UN and the Security Council to strictly respect international human rights, personality rights. We saw it respected in Serbia. It is respected that, by free choice, discriminatory methods, you choose one people who will choose without a decision from any authority that has the power to carry out and respect the convention to bomb that people. They are establishing an international court of The Hague tribunal, trampling all conventions, all norms. They're talking about some respect for the face and the data. Look only if you've been able to read everything Wikilix published. See how they are respected and how they stick to these conventions and these agreements, international standards. And we're here in Serbia saying that the convention that was adopted in Strasbourg in 1981, if I'm not mistaken, should be complemented to further define what it is to respect a person and what it is to respect personal data relating to a person. We have been witnessing that lately and in this House there have been situations that are completely contrary not to this Convention but also to the law, a law which strictly prohibits unauthorized persons from providing data on individuals. It's no wonder. October 5th has completely turned the situation into a matter of secrecy and respect for the dignity of a person. Don't forget, I'm just reminding you, that's when BIA and the MUP were people who carried complete data to the American and German embassies. You know that. Selling information about what's at the state's secret level. What should be in some way sacred to each other, especially to people who are in the most responsible functions, such as the BIA director at the time, such as the interior minister. They even boasted they had good relations with American diplomats. You had then, publicly known, you had the methods by which the intelligence services of this state worked. Unfortunately, this was extended in a later period. You had so-called methods. soft and hard methods. Now a man would think it was some great knowledge or great secret, no, soft methods were according to Western countries that were supposed to be applied by our intelligence institutions, and they were claims to be domestics. What do soft ones mean? They mean when you find or discover some kind of spy affair or some kind of action, you immediately go to the U.S. Embassy, wait for an answer, and then with that answer, and eventually with that information, you go to the BIA-based institute. That's the essence of that method. We have spoken here several times, an example of that even the Supreme Court judge made a decision that stands today at the BIA Central Office, when an intelligence officer was discovered working for foreign intelligence, was found in the executive council of the then-Vojvodine, detained. Asked by the court to apply monitoring and listening measures. You know how the President of the Court answered, I can't apply the measures because the person is doing his job. Where's that? Have you met this somewhere in the world? Nowhere. The person who was proven to be in the intelligence, spy business is simply protected by the court at the time. To remind you that it would be clear to you, that is the president or that president of the court who said she would find a retroactive possibility that the assassins of Zoran Djindjic would be sentenced to death. What's weird about that? As time went by, it was just a matter of perfecting these methods. So we've come into a situation where, say, facial data, about private life, about a lot of personality issues, we're listening here at the assembly session. So it's said, for example, that the case works -- Dragan Gilas owns the property, so there goes the taxing of apartments. We're asking -- what's the address, when you're already listing, which is the floor, which is the entrance -- we didn't get the data. Now, look, that's what people who belong to the ruling coalition, people who belong to the ruling coalition say. It has a certain weight. None of my colleagues said -- really, this doesn't make any sense. It's not about who it's about. We, the Serbian radicals, condemn the politics of the spoken personality. We judged everything he did in the past. But no one said-- wait, that's classified data, where did you get the data? That in a political struggle, political debates, data relating to a person is given -- it really doesn't make sense. And we're talking here, and we're going to declare that we're going to adopt amendments to this convention. We laugh at ourselves. Here, in this addition to the convention, there is one particular feature, a specificity, and that is for the needs of the police, internationally, they say, data can be available. So that specificity leaves us with doubts, Serbian radicals. Thank you, Chairman, for having understanding and listening to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73287	Always. Thank you. Mr. Moamer Zukorlic, I presume a replica to Mr. Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73288	The concept of radicalism is neither etemological, nor termological, nor any other applicable meaning itself, nor positive, nor negative. That's why, in my first reaction, I've indicated that it's a methodological or methodological category, not an ideological one. And that's why it's possible to be a radical communist, a radical leftist, a rightist, a nationalist, whatever. But they're ideologies. Radicalism itself does not represent ideology, but needs to get some content. True, certain political parties, organizations, are not always able or may not want to differentiate their content within their radicalism, so be a little nationalism, a little left-wing, a little right-wing, but that's a lot of right. Because everything you define with your program, it's actually you. As for the turnoff itself, radicalism, among other things, as a methodical category, checks out by radical turns, because it's a method, not an ideology. Certainly, I as a representative of the idea of reconciliation, which is one of my party's basic programming definitions, and even if you will, my primary mission and in this mandate, and hopefully in a certain future period, is actually where all the experiences we have so far, smart people would always try to turn their experiences into positive, to learn from their own mistakes, from other people's mistakes, I think they need to turn. Radicals may make radical, moderate let them make moderate turns, but we need new pages if we want our future to be better than the past, and above all I mean interethnic and international interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73289	Thank you. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73290	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic, for explaining in more detail what radicalism is. It's rooty. Radicals, in translation, are rooted. Not because of their actions, but because of the way they think about solving some of the problems faced or faced a certain society during a certain period. We are pleased to see Mr Zukorlic joining the idea of the Serbian Radical Party, which has since the renewal of the Serbian Radical Party, which is reconciliation. Another proof of how much we insist on international reconciliation is the new book of Vojislav Seselj "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". It's the only way to come to terms with reconciliation, if that event, such as Srebrenica, is the real truth. There were crimes, but there was no genocide. And every crime is for conviction. Anyone who committed a crime has to be responsible for that crime. Only on these grounds, based on truth and fact, can reconciliation occur. Everything else is just blurry, just delaying, more complicated, something that will lead to an even more difficult situation in which it is. We, Serbian radicals, never potentiate either side, we want to know the truth. With this truth, we can come up with a common position that will and will be significant in all the trials that Serbia is under. Because we are aware that those who tear up Serbia are the same ones who broke up Yugoslavia. They broke up most of the work on the basis of the conflict, international conflict, international misunderstanding. If someone has the width and is programmed for it, it's Serbian radicals. Of course, always root.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73291	The word is Mr. Muamer Zukorlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73292	Using the term "rootito" actually confirms what I said. Yeah, every tree has its roots, but every tree has its own name. The fact that every tree has its roots doesn't determine the kind of tree at all. So this is a confirmation that radicalism is a methodology and methodology, and no matter what, ideology. Even, the way of thinking is the way of thinking, and the content of opinion is what should be ideology. Perhaps the progress of hearing from fellow radicals is to use the concept of reconciliation at all, which is, of course, a step forward. Unfortunately, it's not these other specifics and attitudes we've heard or heard that deny the very idea. Of course, I've repeatedly expressed my views about the genocide in Srebrenica. I think that radicals, along with the fence and all these announcements they're saying, but this attitude of denial of genocide in Srebrenica actually makes a great bear service to Serbia and the Serbian people themselves. Because, every push, the bribery of the entire state and the nation to deny something that is a fact and something that has been ruled by an international verdict actually means that instead of the real culprits that should always be prosecuted and condemned and judged, in some way we are bribing the state and the nation, which, in my opinion, is a bad service to Serbia itself and the Serb people itself, because I am not a representative of collective responsibility, but I believe that there must be an individual, however many participants. Because such a single insistence actually puts an obstacle to reconciliation, it puts an obstacle to the opening of a new page. What I can agree with is that reconciliation must be preceded by justice, and justice must be preceded by truth, and therefore the party I am leading and calling the Justice and Reconciliation Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73293	I have to say that the genocide in Srebrenica has not been ruled anywhere and that there really was no genocide in Srebrenica. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: I agree with you. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73294	What's a fact it's that globalists like before who represented totalitarianism represent the thesis that it doesn't matter what happened, it's what they think about it. When the Srebrenica case came up on genocide, we all know how it happened. It was created in Hollywood, pesoratically in Hollywood, by the fact that one case of sexual affair was to be covered by something that should be burdened by a nation, and this Hollywood is working on already established principles, it's important to create victims, increase the number of these victims. After all, it is not just Srebrenica when it comes to this way of film screening, fake screening, you have the opinion of Carla del Ponte, The Hague tribunal, the same kitchen from America, Kosovo and Metohija in advance, so they said if it caused more than 5,000 victims in Srebrenica, there must be 100,000 victims in Kosovo. You see, in the UN tribunal's documentation, Carla Del Ponte, when she saw that she couldn't even get close to finding herself in the tombs of so many victims, she said – a lack of labour. Because only 100,000 would be a figure that would turn the world around and put extra burden on Serbs if they were a genocidal people. The Germans worked hard to do that. We are now speaking for some common resistance to all of these. It's not worth it to us if we don't publish and we don't know the real truth. We need to know the real truth, regardless, those individuals who committed to who they belonged to and from which side they came must answer for it. We can't keep quiet. We had a period of many years of those who wanted to cover Monica Levinski's affair, who here in this parliament pushed this Serbia hard, accused the Serbian people of something that didn't happen in Srebrenica. It is a crime, but it's not genocide. (Muamer Zukorlic: I answer the word.) Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73295	Mr. Zukorlic, Mr. Mircic didn't mention you, he just explained that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. But if you insist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73296	The Honorable Chairman, I would ask you not to flaunt with me from your position, with my views on genocide, because you have no right to do so. As for what I've heard from my colleague Mircic, what I expect all the time and what I've implicated from the very beginning, radically and radically, is that Serbian radicals should actually be bariatricators of the recognition of genocide in Srebrenica. Because, as proven patriots, those like those who have shown their courage that what others cannot do should in some way free others in this parliament, but also the whole Serbian public, and that is one real radical, radical turn, root, where they will face, or prove that it is possible. So it's indisputable facts, the truth, if it's viewed from a point of view from Belgrade or some other distant points, it all seems different. In Srebrenica, I've been at least 10 times more. You have, therefore, a factography, you have names and last names, you have something that is undeniable. Of course, the only thing I'm willing to agree with is if we both need a joint working group and a joint scientific group and whatever we include and get to the real truth and the real facts. It's of interest to both peoples, it's of interest to our future, it's of interest to raise our future generations, because the relationship to evil and crime is not just a relationship to the other side. It's a relationship to the future generations where the matrix we're studying, where we raise our future generations on the matrix. It's something we should have the strength to have common ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73297	Yes, I see, there are several reported. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73298	I believe in Mr Zukorlic's well-meaning. The argument that he was in Srebrenica repeatedly goes in favour of Boris Tadic being in Srebrenica, but does not disprove the facts presented by the Dutch Corps in charge of Srebrenica. It does not disprove the facts that have recently appeared and have seen the light of day by the UK, or the English Intelligence Service, which presents new information in support of what Vojislav Seselj has published in his book. It's just a collection of data, facts that Vojislav Seselj put in one book and is not biased for either side. He's not bitter on either side, but only on the basis of the fact that he showed what happened in Srebrenica. If the high-ranking officers of the Dutch Corps claim there was also a special unit of English intelligence, so-called. The SAS, “saves, ” then must not be upgraded on behalf of what you will increase or increase any crime committed by members of a nation. Erdemovic is not Serbian nationality, Erdemovic admitted, an entire affair was opened based on his recognition, so to speak, Srebrenica. He is a Croatian by nationality, but that does not reduce his crime. Based on his confession, there was a certain number of gunshots. He's freed, you can say freed. A few years and released.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73299	Thank you. Replica, I think there's been quite a lot of discussion on the subject that's not on the agenda today. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73300	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, despite these topics that are not on the agenda, which have been discussed and where everything and everything has been discussed, it seems to me at least to me that the Republic of Serbia is getting when we adopt a law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Protection of Persons, and what I am even more interested in is the proposal for a law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. I'm surprised that none of the fellow MPs in their discussion said that, let's say, in Azerbaijan, as one of our very friendly countries, there is a monument of one of the greatest Serbian scientists, Nikola Tesla. It seems to me that some other things were far more important than that. Or to talk about how Serbia, since its policy responsibility took over SNS and Aleksandar Vukic, has led its own foreign policy in line with the interests of the Republic of Serbia. It is undeniable that Azerbaijan is our friend, as is the Russian Federation, as are many other friends in the world, but you have nothing of that friendship unless you materialize it through scientific, technological and economic co-operation in some way. It seems to me that some fellow MPs are very funny about it, as if we are going to cheat on someone, such as the EU. The difference between SNS and Alexander Vukic and the former regime is that we always tell the truth. Whatever the truth is, whoever liked it or didn't like it, it's always the truth. I am sorry that fellow MPs are trying to present the Republic of Serbia and us who support such agreements to fraud. You know, it's been a while since we refused to be friends with those people because it was in some others' interest, so I remember, for example, during Boris Tadic, who was running away to meet with President Belarus, Mr Lukashenko, and he was hiding in Kopalnik. Also, don't mix grandmothers and frogs. I don't understand the parallel between, say, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Prince Lazar Hrebeljanovic and Slobodan Milosevic, can someone explain it to me? He says, he led the army to fight in Kosovo, whether he lost or won, history will likely discuss it further. Now, we can't blame these, either, because there's a group of people who declared an independent state in the territory of our southern province. There are great differences. First, both Slobodan Milosevic and Lazar Hrebeljanovic paid the battle for Kosovo with their heads. How did these listed - Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic? Richer than ever. Now, so they fought for Kosovo, to make a lot of money, to stay in power as long as possible, to run from our friends who want to help us, to have the right to represent someone's support and that support to the citizens, to, behold, someone from Europe wants them in power. Not one more gentleman, who I can't say is a criminal, to run away from historical responsibility, and that's Vojislav Kostunica. It's the last president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I think he's just like Stipe Mesic. This was the last president of the SFRY, the chairmanship of the SFRY. What's the difference? His MPs voted here to abolish the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and become the state union contrary to the Constitution, the same constitution where Vojislav Kostunica became president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A broken constitution. Is that a historical circumstance, a fact? Yes, it is. Afterwards during that same Kostunica, we lost another state, the state union. He admitted the results of the referendum, not according to the Constitution, but to our neighbouring countries now, but according to the Venice Commission. Now, when he destroyed Serbia for the third time, when it happened in Kosovo, then he became a nationalist, then he became against the EU, then he became against everything. So I had a colleague here, I think he was president of the DSS parliamentary group, former minister in the government for Kosovo and Metohija, talking here against the EU, and his children live in the EU. Imagine how unprincipled a man can be, short, irresponsible, hypocritical, hohstappler, nothing else. So what's good for his kids is bad for ours. Those were the ones who led Serbia. That's why we came to that crisis that was in 2012 and that's why we had to make fiscal consolidation measures in 2014. That's why we're working with friends now and anyone who wants to work with the Republic of Serbia. One more thing. One question to ask. When that story was about this evil EU, so as if we were trying to fool someone, in economic co-operation, I have to ask another question -- and, would we have these friends, investors here, from friendly countries, not from the EU, here, from the Russian Federation, from China, here from Azerbaijan, would these friends be here as investors, they would still be friends, if we didn't have an open market towards the EU? No, you wouldn't. Wait, wait, if our friends answer to cooperate with this EU, why should we consider it an enemy? And they're not EU members, they want to co-operate. You can't look unilaterally at politics on just one, let's just say, you tend to want us and we just have to work with friends. Running a state is not easy, especially in today's time when a relationship is restored between the great forces and Serbia, which is territorially and numerically small, is kept from all these interests that rule, and we can only do so if we cooperate with all our friends, and if we are respected by those who are not very friends. It's the only way to survive. I would also like to thank President Alexander Vukic for keeping the Republic of Serbia with his wise policy not to be dragged into big games where we were only a means for them to achieve their interests and goals, and history teaches us that this has cost us dearly. Now we have a situation that without fear, problems can be told who our friends are, not to hide, not to run from them, not to avoid them, but to cooperate with them and to realize our economic interests. I hope that my colleagues finally understood the difference between what it means to lead a country like Vuk Jeremic and Djilas, who have ruined the country, and what we are telling citizens and Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the SNS, we will tell the citizens the truth, always and only the truth, whether they like it or not. They appreciate you more when you tell him the truth than when you cheat on him, and only a few months later, he sees that he's been cheated. That's when the punishment comes. There's these here, too. Well, I recommend to my colleagues that they always tell nothing but the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73301	Dear People's MPs, you have been given a decision by the RIK on the assignment of the MP's mandate to fill a vacant seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly be in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Velickovic, elected from the electoral list "Alexandar Vukic – Serbia wins". On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Velickovic. Now I'm setting a break, it should take 60 minutes, but here's to 15.00 hours, when we're going to continue and the next speaker is Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73302	Dear People's MPs, we continue to work further. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73303	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to discuss the Convention for the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of the personal data of the Council of Europe adopted in 1981 in Strasbourg, and the Republic of Serbia... With new challenges in mind for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data that emerged after the Convention was adopted, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted the Protocol on 18 May 2018. Serbia is the 36th state to sign the relevant Council of Europe Protocol. Among the signatories countries are countries outside the European continent, since it is a Treaty that is open to countries that are not members of the Council of Europe. In accordance with the Convention, it is necessary to guarantee every natural person, regardless of his nationality or place of residence, respect for his human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular the right to privacy, as well as when it comes to the automatic processing of his personal data. In addition, such an obligation stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that protection of personal data is guaranteed. Regulators have taken the opportunity to further regulate a number of issues raised during the development of the Internet and new technologies in an attempt to restore the damaged balance and enable citizens to regain control of their data. A significant tendency is to comply with the rules among EU Member States and to continue to leave space for non-member countries to regulate many details on their own in accordance with their national regulations. As Serbia seeks to join the European community, it was also logical to confirm the Protocol. The Convention protects the rights of EU citizens, whether it offers them goods or services or monitors their behaviour online. The new personal data protection law in Serbia is a new data protection regulation, adopted in November 2018 with a delayed application of nine months, starting in August 2019. Police directives governing the processing of personal data by competent authorities in relation to criminal proceedings and threats to national security, this law, even if only normatively, represents the highest standard of protection of personal data, and sooner or later the gaps will be resolved by subsequent interventions, while significant legal innovations will remain embedded in our human rights protection system. These principles have been applied to the transport of goods and services on the Internet and finally the issue of the regulation of automated data processing has been raised. The responsibilities of people and organisations collecting and processing data and detailed instruments and procedures for implementing regulations have been expanded. Thus, handlers will risk fines of no more than two million dinars per individual offence in a misdemeanor procedure, while the smallest threatened fine for violations in this area is 50,000 dinars. Given the rather low culture of protection of personal data that has so far been in Serbia and the rare application of laws and regulations in this area, any rule of new regulation is likely new to many companies but also state institutions. The data protection authority shall be applied to all EU members and there shall be an independent data protection supervisory authority in each of these countries that independently monitors the application of data protection rules and has the authority to issue opinions, conduct investigations, conduct procedures, give warnings, penalties and others. In principle, supervisory authorities are the most operational part of the national administration dealing with the protection of personal data and to date each has developed extensive practice in interpretation and application of rules. In Serbia, the role of the supervisory authority is played by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection who has developed significant practice through a number of opinions, decisions in surveillance procedures, and which are regularly published on the website of the Trustees. Modernisation of the Convention, which is the only existing legally binding international contract of global importance in this area, addresses the challenges of privacy, resulting from the use of new information and communication technologies and a stronger mechanism of the Convention, in order to ensure its effective application. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has repeatedly pointed out that digitisation and reform are priorities and that people in Serbia are now beginning to believe in the process and to see concrete results. We live at the time of the fourth industrial revolution and a time of dynamic and rapid development. The digital transformation in Serbia is based on three pillars: transforming education, transforming public services, digital transformation of the business environment and supporting innovation and starting apps. In Serbia, excellent laws, good legal and tax incentives were passed to invest information technology, start applications for innovative businesses, research centres. France is the leader in digitisation, but Serbia and Estonia, they say, are the greatest hopes for the future. For example, a conference called "Data and e-Government: Spark for the Future" will be held at the Palace of Serbia on 6 March. Right here, successes will be presented in the field of opening and using open digital transformation data and everyone from the public sector, civil society, technological community and works of the academic sector will be present. In conditions where the biggest challenge is to digitise political will and money for the implementation of the project, Serbia is a country with a political will and more money, thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, a stable budget and a record inflow of foreign, direct investment. It is concluded from all of this that the Law on Confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Protection of Persons to Automatic Processing of Personal Data is necessary, because Serbia is increasingly coming into the world and the world is coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73304	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73305	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will talk about the proposal for a law confirming Annex I, the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. In fact, it is extremely important that we conclude these agreements because it is a strengthening of bilateral relations. The Republic of Serbia has indeed concluded a lot of these agreements between 2012 and 2020, and that only means strengthening foreign policy. Since she came to the power of the SNS and, of course, the current president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, we have become one respectable country in the world and everyone knows it. We are on the Duing Business List 42, but as for the influence of power, political and economic in the world, Serbia is 44th in the list of most powerful countries in the world. This is indeed for every praise, and Ljiljana Malusic does not say, but says the latest list of the media company "US News & World Reports" and shows that Serbia, with 52nd place in 2018, climbed 44th place. The small Serbia, which has a total population of seven million, has become a respectable country in the world. Why? Because right now, the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is leading a wise reconciliation policy. So I keep saying that we are a factor of stability in the Balkans, so we are, working to reconcile passion. I'm not even going to tell you what happened a hundred times ago, I've said, I'm not going to spread the subject of what happened and where it was, as it was, that's what the distinguished colleague said best, but it's really very important that we make these agreements. As for the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Serbia, Azerbaijan is a physically distant country to us, but in the heart and heart of what it does in the Republic of Serbia, it has an extremely great potential and I am impressed by what my esteemed colleague, Mr Arsic, has said that gentlemen from Azerbaijan have erected a monument to the greatest scientist ever, Nikola Tesla. So that's something to be commended for. As far as this agreement is concerned, it was signed for the first time on 25 January 2012. In 2019, we had an addition, or a few changes, to better pass by Azerbaijan in the Republic of Serbia, and that's good. In fact, when we talk about Azerbaijan, we're always talking about some projects. Azerbaijan is present, thanks to Azerbaijan and not only to Azerbaijan, but to many countries, especially China, Russia and many other countries, but also to Azerbaijan. We've got a lot of roads done. Speaking of roads, I have to say that we did 350km of highways from 2012 to 2020, which is for every praise and not just that. We're doing a fast traffic stop. It'll be over by the end of 2021. We will build a fast train station from Belgrade to Novi Sad, where we will reach Novi Sad in 30 minutes. Extraordinary, I experienced it in China, so I will experience it next year in Serbia. No one alive will take cars anymore, but will take the train from Belgrade and to Novi Sad in 30 minutes. As far as Azerbaijan is concerned, the parties agree to also co-operate on the implementation of projects in the Republic of Serbia, as regards the Ruma-Shabac highway, but the bridge will also be built across the Sava River. Also fast traffic Shabac-Loznica and not only that, they will be present, they will work on projects concerning water treatment, but also wastewater and a lot of other things. Once again, it is extremely important that we sign these agreements, and I will be happy to vote in favour of all the draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73306	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73307	I thank the chairman. I will talk about the law confirming Annex I, the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. By confirming this annex, Serbia strengthens regional importance and the entire policy direction led by our government and our President Vukic is to increase and improve Serbia's integration with the international market, speed up economic development and to modernise and revitalise the old and stimulate the development of new branches of industry. Serbia and Azerbaijan signed an agreement on economic and technological co-operation in January, as my colleague already mentioned in 2012, aimed at improving bilateral, economic and technological co-operation, including co-operation in the area of development and implementation of infrastructure projects. It is precisely because of the need to deepen co-operation, and in order to realise new infrastructure projects, Annex I of this Agreement was made up in January this year. This means the Ruma-Shabac highway, bridge across the Sava River, fast traffic Shabac-Loznica and others, and a new road that will connect Ruma, Šabac and Loznica will be the continuation of the fast traffic of Novi Sad-Ruma, i.e. the Frushkogorski Corridor. The total length of this car is about 80 km, of which 25 km is the length of the future Ruma-Shabac highway, and the fast Shabac-Loznica 55 km. The companies from Azerbaijan have already proved to be reliable partners, especially in the area of infrastructure, which we have previously shown by building a section of Corridor 11, from Ljig from Preljina. A joint action plan on strategic co-operation and several bilateral documents was signed in May 2018. I will remind you of the agreements on improving trade and economic co-operation and air traffic. The point is that our relations are now at the level of the strategic partnership. So far, we have signed over 20 bilateral agreements that form the basis for further co-operation in various areas, so we have all the political and legal preconditions for our economic relations to be at the highest level. Azerbaijan is interested in co-operation in tourism, agriculture, information technologies, healthcare and the pharmaceutical industry, as well as in the energy sector. We have continued support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, which we are grateful for, which is particularly due to expression in international organisations, opposition to Kosovo's accession to their membership, which is also witnessed by the Interpol vote. Finally, to strengthen the state, it must expand co-operation with other countries. Serbia is working with the East and the West today. He gets support and gives a friendly hand to anyone who wants successful and long-term co-operation. In the past few years, we have had a whole series of international agreements that deepen economic co-operation. It is important to stress that each will affect raising the standard of living of citizens and opening opportunities for new jobs, which is most important for the future of Serbian citizens. The fact is that in 2019 we ended up with a unemployment rate of less than 9%, which is two and a half times less than in 2012 and the conditions we found in the country. In the past four years, 320km of highways have been built according to the world's highest standards. We have a stable budget, and we're the first country in the inflow of foreign direct investment. So we have political and financial stability, which is why the Serbian government can provide guarantees for all new investments. We have been constantly listening to objections and accusations about every project that has been achieved, every proposal that has yet to be adopted, and this has been going on for several years. I'm going to ask one question - why didn't you do anything for this country when you had the chance? I deeply believe and support this direction that our government is taking, headed by President Vukice, and in the day of voting, I will support all proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73308	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73309	Thank you. Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will place an accent on Annex 1, the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation, between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Azerbaijan. Why? Because I believe that economic co-operation, in the field of technological development, in the area of investment, in the fields of knowledge exchange, experience, exchange of information technologies is of great importance for further progress, growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. The yellow tycoon and robbery companies have left behind Serbia's bankruptcy in economic terms. The streets left more than 400,000 workers, placed locks and chains on the factories, roads full of dust and roads full of mud and mud. Since 2012, the arrival of SNS has made things better, we have set some standards and every year Serbia is walking with big steps forward, because for Aleksandra Vukic and SNS Serbia is first in line. Of course, first measures related to fiscal consolidation measures were needed to stabilise Serbia economically. This project is of great importance because this agreement actually foresees the construction of 77 km of road along the Ruma-Sabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica, as well as the bridge on the Sava River. Of course this project refers to 600,000 inhabitants. What does that mean? This means creating favourable conditions for new investments, favourable conditions for greater employment, favourable conditions for further economic growth and progress, as well as an increase in the rate of gross domestic product, because we all know that construction and how it participates and significantly affects the rate of economic growth. I must point out that in November and December 2019, the Republic of Serbia had the highest possible growth rate, which is 6.1% and this trend of growth continued in January 2020. I also want to say that this highway from Ruma to Šapac, the highway full of profiles, that its width is 29 meters, that the distance between the opposite roads is four meters, and that the fast road leading from Šapac to Loznica traffic of four strips, that the width is 19 meters, that it split between one and the other lanes 18 meters. Each kilometer of built highway is a symbol of freedom, a symbol of progress and a symbol of a prosperous and successful Serbia, in which our children will want to stay and live and continue to work on its progress and progress. What I also want to point out, which refers to the importance of road infrastructure and rail, road and water and air traffic, is the programme, namely the projects that President Aleksandar Vucic presented through the programme "Serbia 2025", presented to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of 14 billion euros intended for Serbia's new face, for the better quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, five billion euros refers to road infrastructure. Therefore, the policy implemented and implemented by Aleksandar Vucic is a policy of successful, advanced, developed Serbia, Serbia in which decent and honorable people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73310	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73311	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to the agenda, I'd like to congratulate my own adulthood. In fact, the eighteenth state has withdrawn recognition of the fake state of Kosovo and today we heard it through the media and today is a really big day for Serbia. When it comes to the proposals for the agenda, I must say that the SNS will vote in favour of the bill on the validation of amendments and additions to the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data. The Alliance for Serbia will not vote for this proposal. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming Annex 1 to the Agreement on Economic and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, SNS will vote for this bill for understandable reasons, for the reasons we have already announced. The Alliance for Serbia will not support this legislative proposal either. If you're interested in why, because they're not present. The MPs who belong to that minority in the opposition controlled by Dragan Gilas have not come to the National Assembly's session today to face attitudes, to exchange arguments, to fight with the power of arguments. They have better things to do, they experience politics in a different way, they deal with different strategies these days how to boycott. If they're not boycotting already, how could the elections be obstructing? Accordingly, I am concerned, the chairman, with the announcement of one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, the chief Gilasov, is not in fact Gilas's main charger, Gilasov's main charger is that of Bosko Obradovic, but he is the second in the hierarchy, it is Marko Bastic. This Marko Bastic, and I will refer to the distinguished colleague Marijan Risticevic, who this morning asked concrete questions about these announcements, very dangerous announcements by Marko Bastic, and I hope that we will soon get answers to these questions, which is what the state will do about open announcements that they will also obstruct the elections, specifically in the municipality of Stari Grad, where, at the moment, Marko Bastac is doing the function of the president of the municipality, although with the help of some other parties, but not to spread the topic now. So here we have a statement by Marko Bastac from 9 October 2019, where he says, I quote, and I immediately tell you that this is published by "Informer", but this is taken over by the one "The Truthomer", so answer questions in this "True" Marko Bastac says – as far as I'm concerned, these elections will not be held, as far as I'm concerned, the SNS will not enter this municipality, because these are false elections, they prevent them from holding elections, says Marko Bastac. The journalist asks – how? What do you mean, do it? Marko Bastac says – so nice, there will be no elections. The journalist asks – and how? Would you like to lie in front of the polling station? Marko Bastac says – no, I will not let the results be announced in Old Town. So he says, "We don't have to discover everything now, but I won't allow physical, in any other way, for SNS to enter the Old Town municipality." So, they won't run the Old Town municipality in fake elections, because they can't win this municipality. Then he says they can't win unless there's an election in Old Town. Then he says for the end – there will be no election results in Old Town, it is clear enough that we do not reveal too much detail. How is that clear? I ask, Chairman, how does he plan to prevent the holding of regular elections in the Old Town municipality? What are the methods that Marko Bastic thinks he's using, wouldn't he try to prevent regular, legal elections in the Old Town municipality? I think it's been a long time since it's matured for the authorities to react, even appeal to city officials to consider introducing temporary measures into the Old Town municipality, because this is a prime example of open dictatorship. This is about calls for open disrespect for the Constitution and the law. On the other hand, we have his colleagues, Dragan Gilas, who for who knows which time published a pamphlet, this is what it looks like, these are the unsigned newspapers published by Dragan Gilas, but it is not signed that he is the one who financed the printing and distribution of this propaganda piece of junk he called the newspaper, and we know that he is the one behind this, for the reasons that activists and officials and DS on the Starboard have admitted that the Alliance for Serbia is behind this propaganda junk. So here we have a salvo of insult, lies, fiction, false accusations of unsigned SNS officials, against government members, against Alexander Vukic, who is their daily target. And now I ask a question, and who will answer for this, for there is no impression? I'm asking now - who should we sue for this? Who should we from the SNS sue for this kind of filth? So this is the tip of the dirty, let's say, campaign that's being run in Serbia, and we know that Dragan Gilas is behind this because on that portal of his, directly.rs, this is one point of impact on that portal. This, again, is a top example of a dirty campaign run in Serbia and will be stepped up as the elections approach. Nothing less than what N1 TV does, nothing less than those films made by Slavisa Lekic with her team, and it comes at the same time that every day we are the subject of an attack for some kind of censorship, for some kind of media darkness, for some choking of media freedoms. And I'm asking now - who's suffocating who here? Who here is suffocating media freedoms, when everyone, but everyone, can write whatever comes to mind, if it is at the will of Dragan Gilas, Šolak, Miskovic and other tycoons and if Alexander Vukic is attacked in that pamphlet? As one of them comes to mind, and you hit Alexander Vukic every day, then we'll have series about it on N1 TV and on the rest of their media, and then we'll be yelling all the time about choking freedom, as it comes to media darkness, censorship, etc. So it's the ultimate hypocrisy, the chairman, that I don't owe. So, for all these reasons, I call on us to support the motion law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73312	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73313	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I support this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Azerbaijan on technical and technological and economic co-operation. Since my colleagues and colleagues have already said enough about this, let me just point out that this agreement deepens the further realization of other infrastructure facilities, i.e. municipal infrastructure projects, both road and rail. Speaking of this field, let me say that in just three years the Government of the Republic of Serbia built 986km of highways, state, regional and local roads and over 311 bridges. Dear People's MPs, as you know, our President, Aleksandar Vukic, presented a programme for Serbia's development by 2025 and planned nine billion euros in the infrastructure programme, and by 2025, the construction of four highways will be completed, as well as three other corridors planned. The end of the movement of Milos the Great from Preljina to Požega, the traffic from Ruma to Šapac, the section of the highway Sremska Raca-Kuzmin, the entire route of the Moravsko Corridor from Pojat to Preljina, the highway Nis-Medarare, the forest corridor that will connect the forest with eastern Serbia, the Fruškogorski Corridor, the fast traffic of Smederevo-Kula-Vrbas-Bečej, then Paracin-Zaječar-Negotin, Pozarevac-Velika Greda-Golubac etc. So over 5,000 kilometers of highways and roads have been planned for these five years. Dear People's MPs, so our political opponents, the Alliance for Serbia, did not build in their mandate of the road, nor do they have a plan today to build infrastructure, nor do they have Dragan Gilas... While I'm at his place, in a people's called the Giki Mafia, because he wasn't building infrastructure, but the money was right by putting it in his pocket, he, as you know, entered politics as an ordinary golly, and he left the office with 618 million traffic. On 13 August 2009, he said in a conversation with US Embassy Ambassador to Belgrade Jennifer Brass, quote: "I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo," the quote concluded. It is this patriotism, Dragan Gilas, who loves not only Kosovo, but also Serbia, you see, by robbing, and here betraying Kosovo. During 2018, Dragan Gilas visited the United States and arranged for the collapse of power in Serbia, but not by elections, but by street, chaos, and where it goes out on the street and into chaos, there is also bloodshed, he called behind it the Alliance for Serbia, called for a boycott of parliaments from local to republican parliament, and said, "If we leave parliament and throw out of parliament, then you have a social problem. That's something to talk about. If we stop it and stop the media, they'll explode. Give it some sense," finished the quote. You see, respected citizens of Serbia, he speaks in advance of the media, believes they are not free, although they are more free than during his rule. Gilas robbed "Telecoma Serbia" in 2011, when the state-owned company under his political pressure was forced to buy four cable channels of his "Arena Sport" for 7.7m euros, and this is important, although the state-owned company was not then allowed to own the media. It is this Dragan Gilas, who advocates a boycott of the election and has robbed the Republic of Serbia. Nothing is better than Vuk Jeremic, known as one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds. In 2008, he said in a conversation with US Congressman Ted Poe, quote: "The entry of Kosovo and the Metohija into the United Nations is the best Serbia can hope for if it is lucky," a quote concluded. He won at the expense of his Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development 200,000 from Mongolia. The companies in Shanghai and Hong Hong Hong paid him $4.5 million where his close friends operated, and we said this very often in this high house, Patrick Ho and Tidian Gadio, otherwise arrested as members of the international gang of thieves and frauds with whom Vuk Jeremic operated. He got $120,000 from Qatar in New York and the US Embassy in Berlin for $200,000. And to cut short, between 2013 and 2017 he received as much as $7.9 billion. So this is Vuk Jeremic, known as a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, you have heard here today about Srebrenica and genocide in Srebrenica. My smallness, as a man of the profession, wrote one paper in a magazine, I think it's already out, but I won't talk about it. I just want to warn the citizens of Serbia, as well as the honourable MPs that it is not a matter of court, or the UN tribunal or any court, it is a matter of science. Genocide is a matter of proof of science, not of court. The court calls for co-operation, for peace. But in genocide, there are three elements that, as you saw on Cyrillic last night, a number of experts have no idea about genocide, to apologize, talk about, and a little bit piss people off. He means three things. First, the intention to commit genocide, which is very important. If there's no such intention, dolus specialis, there's no way you can talk about genocide, regardless of the number of people killed. It may be 100,000, but it's not genocide, it's a crime. Then, the preparation period, the plan, the second and third, the execution of the crime. It's true that last night, an American expert said, if you watched the show, that sometimes genocide isn't tied to war. So, the cause of the war, it's already crimes, etc. Let me make it simple for all citizens to be clear. What does that mean, two sentences? So, before war, if any ethnic, religious or any community wants to destroy, completely, the whole, for example, one people such as the Croats had a plan of destruction, that is, to destroy Serbs in Croatia in 1941 to 1945, which means, no, not only their population, but their intention before the war, but their culture, language, etc., by saying that they wanted it at certain meetings. We have such an example in recent history, which is at war in 1991 to 1995 in Croatia. Before the war in Croatia, I have at least 300, I think 342 statements by Croatian officials who said what they were up to with Serbs. The destruction of the very, ethnic cleansing of the entire population, culture, language, letters, etc. So it's not as simple as some people think. So the number isn't important, it's this intention, and we didn't have that intention in Srebrenica, we didn't have it all in BiH. Someone tells me that in Srebrenica, one of the Serbian generals or any politician had a purpose and gave a statement before the crime committed by a terrible crime was committed that he intended to destroy the Muslim, or Bosniak population, you don't have a single statement, and you have five thousand to do, asked Ali Izetbegovic, it's a matter of proof, etc. In the end, let me say it's a matter of profession. I hope that one who is interested will look a little at scientific journals and also at the book of Professor Vojislav Seselj. Indeed, these three books, especially one where it's been processed, are undermining this particular, all of the world's relevant experts and their opinions on it. Well, that's why I'm inviting you really if you're going to talk in this house to read books first, and I have a feeling that some people have spoken today, and they haven't read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73314	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73315	Thank you, your chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have proposals on the agenda that give us the opportunity to talk in parliament about stable and secure finances, a full-scale state register that creates a positive environment for domestic and foreign investment, for the further development of Serbia, in economic and economic terms and that we also talk about the creation of new jobs. Yesterday, Minister Mali said that by 2025 GDP will be 73 billion euros. Such a result can be achieved thanks primarily to stable macroeconomic policy, favourable conditions for foreign investment and investment of 14 billion euros in Serbia's 2025 programme in various areas such as health, education, advanced technology, infrastructure and so on. In 2014, we started implementing the fiscal consolidation measures that produced the results and we can therefore say that the year behind us, in 2019, is one of the most successful for Serbia due to the high growth rate of 4.2%. In the last quarter, the growth rate was 6.2%, which put us first in Europe. Now we can say that we live in a country that has a surplus in the budget for years back. That is why we can talk about increasing wages in the public sector from 8% to 15%, about the average salary of 500 euros in dinar equivalent. These are the results of the measures that Aleksandar Vukic decided on, as it was the only and the right way for Serbia to get on its feet, primarily in economic terms. In 2012, the average salary was 329 euros, but with an unstable budget that could not offer certainty that salaries could be paid at all. In 2012, the unemployment rate was 26%, and now it is the lowest since the unemployment rate has been followed, i.e. since 1996 and what was the objective of the Serbian government has been met, and that is to lower the unemployment rate to a single-digit figure. That's what we did, and now that rate is at 9.6%. The number of new jobs continues to grow. In the last four years, 200,000 new jobs have been opened. A lot of new factories have been opened, only in Nis six new factories. Nis was the city of electronics. The electronic industry employs more than 20,000 workers, the area on which the factory in Nis was located, occupys 65 hectares and more than 200 thousand squares of business-production space. Unfortunately, the previous government did not want such a giant to save any decisions made by the then government in 2009 only remained empty promises and a dead letter on paper. Then they promised to bring in the French factory, the benefits of employers, the establishment of a tech park and much more, but unfortunately for Nis they didn't do anything. The mayor at the time of 2009 was Milos Simonovic from DS, and the prime minister was Mirko Cvetkovic, and everything in Nis simply stopped during that period. They didn't have to promise if they knew they couldn't keep those promises or if they knew they just didn't want to invest in Nis or southern Serbia. That's exactly the difference between DS and SNS. Aleksandar Vukic promised years ago to invest in Nis and the entire south of Serbia and that promise was fulfilled. He himself opened six new factories and new jobs in those factories. We got the most modern clinical center that made us a regional health center. We're expecting the opening of the Science and Technology Park this year. Within the deadline, apartments are made for members of security forces and so-called security forces. Social housing. Local roads are being done. Niss is going out on new highways now. So, Nis, when she was in power today, it's like two different cities. Today, the center of the administrative district is in the right sense. And what do we have to hear today from our political opponents? That he'd obstruct the election. So, not only the boycott but also that it will interfere with elections in polling stations and election commissions as Bastac has already announced in the municipality of Stari Grad. So, the Gilas are planning anarchy both on election day and probably after that. I will now take the opportunity to appeal in advance to the state authorities to be prepared for such a thing and to provide regular elections and to determine the electoral will of citizens in accordance with the law. In the end, I suggest that we also support these proposals that are ahead of us today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73316	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73317	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since I am neither academic nor science doctor, but I am not a patient, therefore, to explain once again how much damage it would have been to break up with Russia, China, the EU and the CEFTA countries. In 2001, I actively participated in the construction of an industrial zone in India. Active. I was helped by many republican officials in two convocations when I was an MP and when I was president of the Assembly, I was removed when we finished that industrial zone. Injia then had a debt of 50 million dinars and commitments, and then Jesic and the happy ones, those who boycott the National Assembly, just so you know that Jesic has been receiving your salary for three years, my fellow citizens, and he does not come at the session. So he's the oldest boycotter here. He's probably trapped there in that apartment in Vienna, or the penthouse, whatever he's got, or maybe he lost his passport, so he can't come back. So, building that industrial zone, I was aware that on my way from the European Union to the East, I was aware that the sun was rising east, going west, that the east should be looked at with the heart, and in Western Europe, building that industrial zone, I knew it would reduce unemployment. At that point, Indjija was given the 1990s 50% of the new population thanks to Tudjman's banishment of Serbs and not only Tudjman, but a large number were expelled by Ali Izetbegovic. These are the multiethnic ones, who like to banish the nation, and they say to themselves that they are multiethnic, break away from Serbia, form one of their republics and all of the Serbs living in the republic declare the aggressors. No matter what we got 50% of the new population, India is almost unemployed today. Unemployment in India is about 4%, although I suspect there are those who have not applied to the Employment Service to avoid calling. There are people, believe it or not, people like Goran Jesic, who avoid working. So, just one factory in that industrial zone. The first one we opened was a "Fast" cigarette factory. I had problems with Djelic and Vlahovic, and it was bad problems, because when they sold the tobacco industry they wanted to sell all the smokers in the Republic of Serbia and be absolutely all cigarettes factories in foreign hands. I thought otherwise. The factory and the investor helped us start an industrial zone from which one factory is, I will name it "Grunfus", its exports are 208m euros annually. So, one factory in India, 208m euros. The second in “Henkel” adds another 100. So it's just two factories out of ten that are there, that's about 300m euros or 7,000 euros per capita, just from those two factories. Most of this stuff goes to the European Union, one part goes to the CEFTA market. I have to give an example of NIS. I disagreed with the price NIS was sold, but NIS is a large exporter. So the question is how much would NIS be an exporter to say, few people know that in Bulgaria and Romania, which are members of the European Union, NIS, or Gazprom, has more pumps two and a half times than in Serbia itself, gas stations, as they call it. Serbia's oil industry is achieving a significant amount measuring hundreds of millions of euros. The question is, would a Russian investor, without entering the EU, without this pre-accession period, have achieved such results? Do you know that among the first ten exporters are two Chinese companies, or Chinese investments? These are "The Irons" Smederevo and RTB Bor. So these two companies are among the first five or six exporters. So, the European Union has raised 5% of our quota on Sartida and the big issue of Smedereva, the number of jobs in Smederev and Bor would have been open if China hadn't calculated that steel and copper could be sold in the European Union. That's what I was going to say, not wanting to question anyone's qualifications, although mine are being questioned. I repeat, I'm not an academic, I'm not a science doctor, but I might be able to give some classes. If I had my first five exporters liquidated it would have been four billion exports. This export and these investments guarantee us that we can share salaries, that these salaries are no more than 32,800 dinars, as found, 328 euros, but that they are 510 euros and that they increase by over 50%. Investments are fuel in the car, investments are fuel like gasoline in the car, so investments are fuel in the economy and economy. So, without investments, there's no economic development, and you can't get investments from the West, not even from the East unless you have a wide range of markets. A country like ours, which is surrounded by capitals, shopping malls and so on, could not meet the needs of citizens, could not strengthen the military, could not resolve its obligations to abroad and so on that it has no developed economy. I like investment from the same, we export apples to Russia, raspberries to the European Union, so we should run a policy run by current leadership. The trip to the European Union is paved by various obstacles, but we get the right resources. Whether we will enter into the European Union or not, it will be decided by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, neither will Mr. Arsic himself, nor Mr. Martinović, nor Mr. Vukic, and especially not my smallness, but until then we have to use one second and third market, because otherwise, without an export variant, without the production of goods, services and so on, we will not be able to make any progress in the economy, we will not be able to service the social needs of the population, and then we will return to the time of the yellow unfortunates who boycott their work but are not boycotting and how good and fat pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73318	Thank you. Comrade Vukadinovic, you have no more time. (Jorge Vukadinović: I have time. What? (Jorge Vukadinovic: I have time from authorized and almost 10 minutes.) You don't have the authority, you really don't. It's been spent. You can check it out. Now I'm told from the service that nothing of your time has been taken away if there was an overrun in the replicas. I'm sorry, really. Since no one's answering my word anymore, I'm concluding a joint single search. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73319	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, more than six months of the main topic in Serbia are electoral conditions, the electoral process, the improvement of electoral conditions, how we will now become more democratic, how we will now adopt recommendations from some foreign representatives here. In that period, I can say freely the historic reconciliation between the representatives of the government and the representatives of the pro-Western opposition, united by a joint mentor, united by common ideology, so that these parties have started to hold permanent meetings, consultations, so-called dialogue, under the auspices of NGOs controlled by George Soros. This began first at the Faculty of Political Sciences, where we saw that within 24 hours, thieves, and traitors, and Gilas' theft, and Vučić's theft and everything else fall into the second plan, all of what they spoke to each other when the meeting was called together by Milan Antonijevic, Sonja Licht and other representatives of the Open Society Fund, i.e. NGOs that operate globally under the auspices of George Soros. That all this is not enough has shown that another humiliation should occur for the National Assembly, which is when the former MEPs are set to come here and teach lessons, are set by the EU for teachers for MPs in Serbia. So Eduard Kukan and Knut Flekenstein came to Serbia to examine young teeth, to teach us a little about election rules, to teach us how to vote, how to conduct elections, how to count votes, how to broadcast propaganda content on TV stations, and a lot more, who will remember. In those six months we have progressed as never in our history, we have reached a level that was unimaginable for democracy in a European country. Mrs Gojkovic herself, as president of the National Assembly, was subordinated to these MPs, i.e. former MEPs. Meanwhile, an official European Parliament delegation has arrived to confirm what their predecessors agreed, to give instructions to both authorities and the pro-Western opposition in Serbia that they should behave, who should go to elections, who should not, who will go to the next election tour, etc. I would remind you that since 2016, the SRS has repeatedly stressed the need for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to change, as is the Rules of Procedure that favors power, and which discriminates, in a way, the opposition, how it should, if someone really cares about the situation, or the atmosphere in the National Assembly, be the interest of all MPs and, above all, the power to change such a thing. So then we had seventy-seven bits of agenda together with the budget, that is, the Budget Law on the agenda a year and a half ago. We had thousands of amendments submitted by the MPs, and they did not vote for them afterwards. What we didn't have here. We warned that this was bad for parliamentaryism, for parliamentary life in Serbia, for democracy in Serbia. No, we were okay with it -- you win the election, then you execute that democracy of yours and that parliamentaryism, you let us go, so many people voted for us. Meanwhile, a report by the European Commission on Serbia has arrived where the situation has been stressed in the National Assembly and then all the government MPs have been racing who will praise it more, who will try harder to apply it and who will be more serviceable to foreign dictatorships, which is in some way very humiliating for the Republic of Serbia, for the National Assembly, which is the highest political institution in Serbia. So we also had favoring by the authorities of certain MPs, so we saw that the Rules of Procedure were not the same for all, so we saw that when, for example, we saw it. The SRS and 22 MPs who make up its parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament, together with more than 100,000 Serbian citizens, have submitted a bill with 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens, such as the bill submitted by the SRS on the executive procedure and the security provided for the removal of public enforcement in Serbia, cannot come to the agenda for more than six months in the National Assembly, although we respected the Rules of Procedure, submitted the bill 15 days before the regular session and the regular autumn session of the National Assembly last year, but it does not seem to matter. We have seen that Nenad Canak and several MPs of that group, there are no more than six, seven of them propose a bill that raises questions about the status of Vojvodina and issues related to the AP Vojvodina, this is an urgent process on the agenda, because from the point of view of the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament, it was responsible for someone to bus into the patriotic breasts and to oppose Nenad Canka in the Serbian Parliament. Gordana Comic, a member of the party that stole Serbia, a "yellow company", a robbery privatisation, has caused them to break away from Montenegro, because of them Kosovo has declared independence. They fired 300,000, 400,000, 500,000 workers, destroyed Serbia, turned Serbia black. They're just trying to get back into power and rob. Aroundly, this is how government officials treated Gordana Comic and her colleagues from the DS. It shall submit a proposal to amend the laws on local elections and on the electoral process, i.e. representation on lists of less-represented sex and amending those quotas. Suddenly, she is one of the highest political authorities in Serbia, suddenly she is the mother of democracy, suddenly she is Mrs. Comic, no more "yellow company", no more Gilas, no more robbery, no more how many millions she has stolen, but she is the most important person in the Assembly. Is it discriminatory by the government, or the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament. So it is okay not to respect 22 SRS MPs, not to discuss their proposals, to be offended in a brutal way by more than 100,000 Serbian citizens, who have clearly expressed their position on the abolition of public executioners, and we have submitted this petition, but Gordana Comic is the priority of all the priorities to discuss its proposals. And so today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you are falling more and more and more, and today, there is an impossible situation that is truly abnormal, which is that on the proposal of the non-existent party, on the proposal of a party that did not run in the elections, which was created by certain people chosen from the list Sasa Radulović – enough has, stolen the mandates, formed a party and now they are some party, they are now in favour of something, they are proposing something, their opinion is such, no legitimacy has been held for them, because no one voted for them. It now takes such an organization that has been created by human beings in an unholy procedure, so by stealing a mandate, it's stealing as any other organization, and now it's up to these people to allow them to propose members of the RIK. Is that according to European standard? So, mandates are stolen, another party is formed, it is in the interest of the government in Serbia, and now they can also propose members of the RIK. This is abnormal, no one has ever voted for the party, for the party and 90% of Serbian citizens have never heard of it, although very much has been forced by the media supporting the Serbian government. So that party doesn't exist. You thus legitimateize the theft of mandates, dishonesty and immorality if you now give them, after you have given them seats on boards, you have also given them seats in the delegations of the National Assembly, now it should be a member of the RIK proposed by the party of stolen mandates. We talked a lot about electoral conditions and the electoral process in Serbia and when the censorship was reduced for the republican elections and local elections and before when some laws were passed in the National Assembly concerning election campaigns and participations in the elections, it was the main issue, and no one remembered to talk, or to suggest something that is the biggest problem in our parliamentary and political life, which is that when some MP who was chosen by a proportionate system from a political party's list, when he decided to leave the party and move to another party with him in accord with the other party's mandate. I understand the closeness of the ruling majority and the biggest party that makes the majority towards stealing the mandate, because it is in the foundation, that is, the basis of its existence, and that it is, in fact, created, but it is something that is one of the major problems, if not the biggest one, and which should be discussed first, for one who is in mind improving electoral conditions and democracy in Serbia. It's a basic problem, which it promotes, which it affirms in this way. Whatever I think of Sasha Radulovic, and I don't think of him any good, some number of people in Serbia voted for him, or for the party he led. These people may have been deluded, they may never vote again, they may have been wronged, but it doesn't give some the right to steal mandates and pretend they're actually respected MPs, so now they're with some legitimacy, they're suggesting something, and they're up for something. It's madness. It's schizophrenia. We've had a lot of problems. We had a situation that, with the direct interference of the US Embassy in Belgrade and the tour of some election headquarters by the US ambassador in 2016, and in conclusion by the Republic Election Commission, the very strong influence of the US Embassy of some list of transfer census, although they did not have enough votes to cross the censorship in 2016. These are DSS - Dvori and Ceda-Boris-Chanak, the coalition of the Liberal-Democratic Party, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and and Tadic's party, which I don't even know its name. It's from the direct interference of the American embassy. In the food chain on the political scene in Serbia, Serbia's citizens and their electoral will are top priority, and above them is the Serbian Progressive Party, and whoever is in the hierarchy highest, that is the US Embassy in Belgrade. That's what we've been able to see for the past four years. That's right. So, there is no sincere push to improve electoral conditions, there is no sincere push for democracy in Serbia and in the parliament of Serbia, as long as only foreign dictatorships are being met and as long as we have legal immorality and the theft of mandates in the assembly. Now the party should sometimes go to elections, which does not exist and the parliamentary group consists of people no one in Serbia knows about, no one has ever voted for them, who met one another for the first time and met when the constitutional session of the 11th National Assembly was held. And they're best known as Sashi Radulovic's follow-up vocals when he has performance when he plays the guitar. These are the people you're legitimizing today, once again, and this way. You show some kind of ideological closeness to all of them. You have hurried to meet these dictatorships from abroad as soon as possible, so you're changing members of REM, you're proposing to others on the National Assembly quota. It was proposed to the Committee on Culture by four candidates. The ruling majority, therefore, of the Serbian Progressive Party, voted for the first entry of candidates proposed by the Liberal Democratic Party of Cedomir Jovanovic and the second candidate he proposed, so-called. A modern Serbian party, a party of stolen mandates, which has never participated in the elections. And then, with both hands, the ruling majority MPs in the Serbian Parliament voted for Judita Popovic, who was once a national MP, who is a woman, let's remember, who advocates Kosovo's independence, which advocates NATO integration, who openly says Serbs themselves are guilty of bombing, which speaks of the Serbian people's guilt about the alleged genocide in Srebrenica. It is particularly interesting for MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which also makes the ruling majority, which they also voted in favour of its election, and that person was when Slobodan Milosevic was killed in The Hague celebrating and sending balloons around Calemegdan. However, the situation is changing, the European Union, the European Parliament and the US Embassy are the most important, their dictatorship must be fulfilled and then sought by partners in ideological closeness. For the first time in history, a coalition at the republic's level between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Liberal Democratic Party took place in the REM. So far, this has been known at the local level, the LDP has brought SNS to power in Vrakar, when it made a coalition with them, in the Belgrade municipality of Vračar, but, behold, now a REM member belongs to LDP thanks to advanced votes in the Serbian Parliament. So that's our sad situation on the political scene right now. On the scene, those who represent power in Serbia are only the mere executioners of foreign dictatorships, as well as with REM, as well as with RIK, as well as with a legislative procedure, i.e. proposals for legislation to come to the agenda. We can discuss in the Assembly what is in the interests of the European Union and of the European Parliament, and when 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia sign something, and in this particular case the SRS proposal on a new law that is abolished by public enforcement, it can never appear in the National Assembly. Because what Jupiter is allowed to do is not allowed to be ox. That's what you stand for and that's what your policy is -- closest to the positions of the Liberal Democratic Party, the closest to stealing the mandate. The only difference between the government in Serbia and the pro-Western opposition in Serbia is the competition that will make it faster, more successful, more practical to meet the dictatorships that come from Brussels and Washington. We've seen this in the last 20 years, first Democrats by 2012, and then advances from 2012 to here. There is no honesty and no concern for democracy in Serbia, there are only services to foreign embassies, there are only acts of pressure and dictatorship from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73320	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73321	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. I didn't mean to take your word for it. This is one of the most technical points of the agenda, since a whole series of untruths has been expressed at the expense of the SNS, the Government of Serbia and the President of the Republic, I have to answer those lies. How much the current Rules of Procedure discriminated against the opposition we could see yesterday. Yesterday, Sasa Radulovic, a man who has not appeared in the National Assembly for more than two years, was more than three hours of explaining the additions to the agenda, most of which are completely pointless. The man, among other things, asked to put out of force a law allowing for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, and one, "Belgrade on Water" was already completed by half. So, to this extent, the Rules of Procedure discriminated against the opposition that one such man yesterday more than three hours, without any problems, spoke in the National Assembly, and completely forgot the fact that while he was a bankruptcy manager, he had eaten more than 16 businesses in Serbia and, of course, made it possible for himself and his wife to acquire enormous capital that is completely immeasurable for most Serbian citizens. So that's the terrible Rules of Procedure that we were talking about today. What we have heard today about this item of the agenda, it is repeated from session to session, and whatever is on the agenda, is spoken in the language of phrases, one is spoken, to say the communist dogmatic language, the ossuary, bureaucratic language, which has nothing to do with real life. It has been said that Serbia is ruled by the US Embassy and that we are serving towards the US Embassy, according to the Western powers and that we are fulfilling all their orders. I'm just going to give you a few examples of how much this is a big lie. Alexander Vukic was asked to return to The Hague urgently for his second-degree conviction and for allegedly having to be held accountable for contempt of the court. Earlier, the same Vojislav Seselj, in his own words, was expelled from The Hague tribunal, brought out of The Hague tribunal, was put in, he says, on a plane and so arrived in Belgrade. Aleksandar Vukic then said on one television with a national frequency that the Serbian government, as he had been Prime Minister, was not Fedeks or any other postal operator who received the goods, and then returned it within 24 hours. We are so serviceable to the Americans, to The Hague tribunal, and to those behind The Hague. Then they pressured three of our fellow MPs, also, such as some package or some goods to be delivered to The Hague tribunal for contempt of the court, because they allegedly, and I don't think it's absolutely true that they did it, because I did the same job with these people, so I know they didn't do it, did an inappropriate impact on witnesses in the process against Vojislav Seselj, and then he was asked by Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government to have these three MPs, one of whom unfortunately passed away, delivered to The Hague tribunal. Is Alexander Vukic and has the SNS succumbed to that pressure? It's not. We have been suffering from the EU for several years, since 2014 when the Ukrainian crisis broke out, constant pressures that, since we are a candidate country for EU membership, we are harmonising our security and foreign policy with EU policy, and that policy, among other things, involves imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation. The only state, apart from Belarus, the European state, which has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, despite very strong and intense pressures, is exactly the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. For several years we have been under strong pressure and are accused of being a Russian state in the Balkans because we strengthen our military capacities by strengthening our army by buying the most modern weapons from the Russian Federation, one part of China, but above all from the Russian Federation. The West is asking us to stop this practice. We with this practice not to want to stop, but we think it is absolutely in Serbia's interest and we will continue with this practice because we think that strengthening our defence forces is in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but also the interest of the Serbian people living in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. I have cited just a few examples of how we cowards are and how blindly we do all that comes to us from the western centers of power. As far as this complaint is concerned about whether something is put on the agenda or not, the Rules of Procedure have prescribed which number of MPs you need to schedule an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with the pre-determined agenda. No parliamentary group has a single obstacle, as far as SNS MPs are concerned, to collect that number of MPs, or that number of signatures required and to place any item of the agenda on the agenda, or to propose to the chairman of the Assembly an appointment of a session with the set agenda. In that sense, these remarks that we are allegedly preventing something from coming to the agenda are simply not true. In addition, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, 30,000 voters, therefore, do not need as many as 100,000, 30,000 voters are required to enter a bill into the assembly procedure, since the right of legislative initiatives have, not only MPs, or parliamentary groups, but also citizens themselves as voters, and by the number of 30,000. In that sense, there are no obstacles to finding everything that citizens want on the agenda of the National Assembly. Today, these phrases were repeated as to how one of us in the SNS, although no one had ever said that, Gordana Komic called the mother of democracy, that he worshipped her to the ground, that neither I nor I had given her any honor and privileges. I just want to remind you that those who criticized us for that were voting for those laws. So they voted in favour of these laws, and we heard on the same side that even a small 40% quota, on that critical side that today comes from those poisonous arrows at the expense of the SNS parliamentary group. We've heard from the president of that parliamentary group that it's a little 40 percent of women on the list, but that it's up to 50% of women on the list, because, in the words of that gentleman, 50% of women are women, 50% of men are in society, so that's how they should be painted, and when the election lists are formed. In that sense, I do not understand the criticisms of those who voted for these laws, and they are bothered by the legislator. If you were bothered by the bill promoter, then for those laws, at least that makes sense to me, you shouldn't have voted. Of course, by who knows which way this truth is repeated that we have accepted everything that came from the West, everything that came to us from NGOs, as regards improving electoral conditions in Serbia. I will say today what we from the SNS have said many times, and that is that we have shown willingness to talk to everyone who wants to talk about how to improve the electoral and political system in the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who wanted to participate in that dialogue was our caller. We did not choose conversators, but we said that we were ready to have a dialogue with everyone who wants to have peaceful, civilized means here in parliament to talk about how to improve our electoral legislation, not that we have on the street a Ukrainian, Macedonian or other scenarios that advocated people, such as Borko Stefanovic and similar ones, who threatened to shoot Serbia as well as she did in Macedonia, etc. We felt that there was no need for Serbia to turn into a battlefield of political opponents, but that all political differences, all our differences should be conducted and discussed here in parliament, not on the street. We didn't think it was a way to lead politics by tearing down traffic signs, by harassing and insulting construction workers, by stopping construction works, by blocking traffic, by blocking parliament as a democratic institution in which to talk. All those who wanted to talk in these talks were able to participate, and we are as the largest and as the party that bears the greatest responsibility for managing Serbia showed enough goodwill, enough energy to listen to all those proposals that we consider to be in place, that they are good and that they can objectively correct electoral conditions and even political system in Serbia. We are, of course, faced here with two different views and with two different schools of opinion, we in the SNS think that we should not bury ourselves in trenches and that none of us know everything about everything, but that we are, as MPs and as politicians, obliged to talk to each other. You have that other school of opinion that thinks she knows everything, that she's the only one who's right, that no one else is right and that thinks you should stay buried in that trench, no one to talk to, no one to lead a dialogue and live in the belief that you're the best in the world. I allow that opinion to be legitimate, I just don't think it's useful for people who think so, and it's especially not useful for citizens of Serbia. In any case, we participated in these conversations, we did not show any service to anyone. After all, Tanya Fajon did not tell any of you to speak hate language, but to me. So we've been so service to this lady and to those Euro MPs. Of course, today was about that famous REM Council. There's an urban legend about this REM Council, that's one institution that depends on the election result, and if you have a majority in REM, then you win the election, if you don't have a majority in REM, then you lose the election. We are honored why we voted for the representatives of the opposition. It is precisely to show that it is not REM who will decide who will rule for the next four years in Serbia, but that they are citizens, and that we do not mind either Judita Popovic, nor the SMS representative in the REM Council, because we know that neither Judita Popovic nor the SMS representative will decide who will exercise power in the coming period in Serbia, but will decide the citizens. Again, you have one school of opinions that says that if you have your own people on the REM Council, then it's safe to show you that in the elections you'll achieve a good result. I've been in politics for many years, and I've been in opposition for many years, and I know there's never been a Council of Rem that can guarantee you victory in the elections, if the citizens don't say that you actually earned that victory. In that sense, these remarks about how the representatives of the opposition entered the REM Council, I think they only go in favor of the SNS and show how democratic we are, how wide we are and how open we are to accept those who don't feel the same way as we do, that they have representatives in the REM Council. After all, neither the LDP nor the SMS could have their representatives in the REM Council, if it hadn't been for SNS MPs. I say it openly, because there's no need for us to be ashamed of it. We have allowed opposition representatives to enter the REM Council. We are you, and I also want to say, in this pre-election time, we are the ones who for the first time since 2000 have formed the National Assembly Supervisory Board to monitor the work of the media in the election campaign. Everyone's been talking about it since 2000, no one's formed that supervisory board, we formed it. Why? Again for why we allowed opposition representatives to enter the REM Council. So the National Assembly Supervisory Board won't decide who wins the election. It's up to the citizens. With all these moves, we have actually shown that we are not afraid and that there is no need for anyone to be afraid of who is sitting in REM, who is sitting on the Supervisory Board, who is sitting on the RTS Management Board or in another institution outside the National Assembly, because they will not decide the fate of Serbian citizens. The citizens themselves will decide, on 26 April there will be elections and citizens, not the REM Council, not the Supervisory Board, not RTS, not "N1" or anyone else will say, this party and this leader should rule Serbia. So all these mystifications about who you voted for in the REM Council, why you put this on the agenda, why you're going to vote for SMS today to have your deputy member in REM, are a little declassified. The modern Serbian party already has a deputy member. That's what I want to say for the citizens of Serbia. I don't think some colleagues read this material well in front of them. So we're not introducing SMS into RIK today. She already has a deputy member in the RIK, only to change that member with another member's deputy. Instead of an X-person, he'll be a person of the iphylon. As far as we're concerned, there's no problem, because again, RIK won't decide who wins the election, the citizens will decide. And we are going back to that initial basic question – who decides on winning the election? The people decide. Those who fear the people, they seek an excuse. Some are looking for an excuse in the boycott, some are looking for an excuse that we don't have fair and democratic conditions for the election, some are looking for an alibi in what some others have, they don't have a representative in the REM Council, that their people don't sit in the UO RTS, they don't sit in the SNS either, but they're all your excuses or why you don't go to the elections, or you know in advance that you're not going to have a great time in those elections, so you're going to find a thousand excuses why that is. I think it would be fairest, most comprehensive for those who are criticizing us today for all these things, to see if there might be some problem in them, in their policy, in the way they represent their own, going to the citizens of Serbia, and going bad in the elections. (Imanja Sarovic: So help us Martinovic.) Well, we helped, here's the census down to 3%. Where will you get more help? I don't know what else to do. To call only one part of the people who planned to vote for the SNS to vote for you. That's all I can do, but I have no right to do that. So, they don't need Serbian citizens to be afraid of neither Tatjana Macura, or Judita Popovic, or my distinguished colleague who spoke before me. Serbian citizens are masters of their fate, it is Serbian citizens who will say on April 26th who they trust, to assess his work, to value all that man and that party, I mean Alexander Vukic and the SNS, have done for Serbia in the last four years. Serbian citizens understand very well who preserved the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, who strengthened its army, who made dozens and hundreds of kilometers of highways, who made new clinical centres, who increased salaries and pensions, who allowed our children who could not be treated abroad to be treated abroad. So, all of these Serbian citizens know very well and understand very well, and I am convinced that on April 26th, when they put all this on the scale, they will do well to measure each and every one of us, to whom they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73322	Thank you. Right on the line, Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73323	Mr. Arsic, I'd like to apologize to the MPs for exciting my discussion by an authorised SMS representative. It wasn't my intention. I just wanted to, if it's possible to clear up a few of my dilemmas. Are politicians or courts making a decision on extradition in this country? That's right, there was no political will by Alexander Vukic to extradite Serbian Radicals to The Hague tribunal, but was the decision taken by the GO SNS or by the competent court? As for fulfilling orders from the West, the pressure of Europe cannot give diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. Seven, eight people who participated in the rescue of our citizens in Serbia, during floods and fires, cannot get diplomatic status, but NATO troops can get everything. We have heard that this, as we comment, is a bill that removes public executioners, some sort of mourning woman, and that it is clear how many MPs it is necessary for the bill to come to a session of the National Assembly. I'm interested, Mr Arsic, do you know how many MPs Gordana Komic has, so her proposal was held at the National Assembly session and adopted, and before that was found, with the will and votes of the SNS, not the Democratic Party? So the fact that we heard that the advances didn't want to accept the terms and conditions of the dictatorships, etc., so the first thing was, I don't give you anything as much as you get together, and then there was, I'm just giving you everything you want. We can't forget what happened months ago, we're not under amnesia. So that is, unfortunately, the fact situation in Serbia, these are all facts and we seem to be justified by all this criticism that we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73324	Comrade Seselj, just to answer, it takes 84 MPs to find something on the agenda, since you asked me this, and otherwise there was a united debate between the Law on Local Elections and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and those submitted by the MPs from SNS and Gordana Comić as an individual. It was a debate about quite two different changes in the law. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73325	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this item of the agenda just shows how much we all work together to create and ensure conditions for the elections that follow us to be held in a completely democratic, clear, transparent way. However, it is obvious that our efforts bother some. About what the folk said, the better I get, the worse they burn. Today, in this home, the president of a party that otherwise has a member, or deputy member in RIK, and officially boycotted the April 2020 election, instead of inviting the people to the elections, to declare his plan and work programme, his idea, called for a violent change in the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia. Bosko Obradovic has overcome himself today and in this house has called on the military and police to take over the country's power and isolate the president of the Republic, he has practically urged members of the military and police to commit a violent change of constitutional order or, as we say, he called them to the coup. This crime is in the least minor crime of Article 309. The penal code of the Republic of Serbia is not his first time, as my distinguished colleague, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, says. I really don't know what the D.A. needs anymore to do his job. The Republic's public prosecutor, I now call on him, is obliged from his colleagues, the competent public prosecutors, if they are already unable and ready, to take over this case, to apply for criminal proceedings against Bosko Obradovic, to apply to this home, to remove Bosko Obradovic's immunity, and to put an end to the riot, to the bloodbath, to the evil that anyone wants to the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia. Bosko Obradovic, if his immunity had been removed whenever he deserved to be done, if the prosecution had taken over the prosecution, by now he would have earned who knows how many years of prison and at least we wouldn't have thought about what he was willing to do to meet his employers and financiers. Dear citizens, be calm and sure that the Republic of Serbia has its own mechanisms to protect us all from both Bosko Obradovic and some minor number of those who think the same thing as Bosko Obradovic, and as in 2015, the Republic of Serbia will find ways to properly respect the minimum human dignity of those who have to leave their homes, and I am talking about migrants, to ensure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not, as well as to avoid being threatened, but none of their rights are diminished or suffer anything. I call on my colleagues to be prepared for one proposal if the Public Prosecutor's Office does not do its job, on a proposal that we will launch, which is to start a review of the work of the entire Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Serbia and to once and for all to get the weed out of the cereals, because I am sure that the largest number of people working in the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia, both in the Prosecutor's Office, so in the courts are honest, fair, capable, but because of a small number that has reached some of the functions of the judiciary in Serbia today, does not work as it should. If it worked, we would now have a request here to abolish Bosko Obradovic's immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73326	I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? If not, we move on to the discussion in order of the MPs. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73327	Ladies and gentlemen, the present, this is a procedural issue, but it is also an opportunity to say something else about improving the electoral process, given that we have worked on this over the past weeks and months and I have to say some steps through the arrangements that we have had on different occasions and through the adoption of certain legal norms related to the electoral process. However, what is of particular importance is how we will apply all these electoral regulations on the ground, given our previous experience on the Sandzak area where we have certain occurrences of the kind of violence of the election day, during the vote itself, and especially before counting, or during the count after the vote is over. I want to point out again the importance of this, because in the past election cycles we have had a lack of will to ensure, especially on the ground, a safe and legal electoral process, and in several cases, especially in the Tutina and Sjenica area, but in some other parts of Sandzak, we have had certain gaps that have affected the election results and left the impression that it does not really matter how they vote, but it is important who and how it counts, which is once long ago said. However, that atmosphere reminds us of what is happening in the New Market these days. Namely, at Avdo Međedovic elementary school in Selakovac, we have a kind of blockade of the legal order at this school. A group of political activists of one party, including the very prominent hooligans, are always known for their activities on such occasions, who have a kind of caver in front of the school through whom students and teachers, and other employees, although only those they leave behind, are determined to prevent the newly appointed director, Safet Smilovic, who is in line with the legal procedure, the minister's decision and legal solution, in fact, ten days ago appointed to the position of director. It is a school that has been under the control of the Democratic Action Party, or its president, of a kind of island of their own free will, for years since its origin. Although they have declared it through the Bosniak National Council a school of national vital interest, it was in fact one of the examples of the collapse of the Bosniak national interest, through a very unquality implementation of the Bosnian language programme, through an even more unquality supply of these programmes to textbooks who are either very badly written, with a lot of mistakes, mostly late and by several months, which has actually been reflected in the introduction of classes in Bosnian language, in accordance with the laws of this country, to date we have a significant fall in the definition of children, or their parents, to attend teaching in their native language, which is mainly the guilt of the Bosniak National Council, which is under the control of this party, but also other political entities directly affecting the management of these schools, where negative propaganda is held, at the expense of Bosnian language, and on the other side are full of false patriotism. So today I was informed that more than 650 parents signed a petition, which is the absolute majority of parents of children in this school. A petition by the Minister of Education has been sent, with a request to use the legal authority and to ensure that there is legality in this school, where both the appointed director and the administration and all others, teachers, students, will exercise their right in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73328	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73329	Thank you very much. Are elections folk or party? In view of all the conditions provided for, they are mainly specified by the parties. Serbian citizens cannot propose, only party leadership can do so, Serbian citizens can only propose within a group of citizens. Why didn't you lower the threshold to 2%, if five million voters... (Alexander Martinovic: Why didn't you say that before? Let me, please, can I discuss it or not? (Alexander Martinovic: Why didn't you suggest it earlier? That's not true, I said it on time, in public hearing, you were present. Since 250 MPs times 0.4 is 100%, why didn't you accept for a five-member parliamentary group to be 2% of the threshold? Why didn't you accept that a citizen can run individually and cross the 0.4% threshold, if you have already given privileges to members of national minorities with a coefficient of 1.35 seats, compared to the number of votes won? Why didn't you reduce the number of signatures for those lists that were less than 250 candidates and made accessibility? Why didn't you provide cameras in the polling stations, to record what is done, how is it done, including counting votes? That's all the questions I ask about choices. I call on citizens to go to elections and exercise their legal right, but not only their right but also their obligation, and to vote for those they consider to be the best hosts, regardless of their profession and political experience. He'll get it here in time. I think the most important thing is to define yourself as those candidates and to propose those candidates who have fair intentions and who enjoy your trust. Unfortunately, you will not be able to do so on the party lists, because you only vote for the parties and not for the parties proposed by the party authorities, so that you know how to rank those candidates that you have proposed within the party. It is also very important to allow certain not only national minorities, but also certain groups of potential voters, which are primarily our citizens who are in the debate. Why can't our citizens who are in the debate be able to vote? Who is afraid of our people outside Serbia who cannot vote physically without an electronic vote, especially in large countries such as America, Canada, Australia, the Russian Federation, China, India, etc. Was that difficult, given that individual countries have a full electronic vote in all elections? We boast that we have made digitalisation possible, and we don't even have the digitisation to check whether I voted after the vote was delivered or not, and that someone else spent it and recorded it. There is no reason not to have improved the electoral process and the electoral legislation done in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73330	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73331	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107. I don't think there's any more liberal choice in Europe, except in the Netherlands. I think there's a natural threshold in Holland for all parties. Otherwise, because of the census, because of the reduction of the census, we were called by the same ones on whose list he was elected. But you know what the problem is, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Martinovic? This one's used to one-party elections. His first election was a one-party election. He became the youngest councilman in Belgrade, although he lived in Cačka. It's those choices -- "lock box". I think it would suit him, he'd be best suited to that "lock box" and so on, because in his time, that's why he suggested monitoring the voters, to see who voted. It's in their time, in the "lock box" it was, so who possibly voted against the man who lives in Chačka being a councilman in Belgrade ending up on the naked island. Well, that's why I believe he suggested 2%, one for the flying tomatoes, and another for the pickle that bites. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73332	You don't want to, all right. Comrade Chevarlich, you can only do business. Please specify a member first.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73333	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73334	He was just a colleague. You have to have someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73335	Article 27. So, I am elected to the council of the Educational and Cultural Council of the Belgrade City Assembly in the election unit of the Faculty of Agriculture and Forest, where there were four candidates, two students and two professors. Under the circumstances, I received the largest number of votes in the electoral unit and thus became a council member of the Educational and Cultural Council in the Belgrade City Assembly, given that there were different local communities at the time. There was no voting in the "lock box" in any case, and "lock box" exists when you show a sack of ballots, take out a sack of ballots that are not folded, and at the opening in the ballot box you could never pass the election process without being folded and thrown into the ballot box. You've got photos, videos that show it. Not to get into it, if there were ever deadlocks, and there were after World War II, we were watching movies, I don't see any reason why we can't prevent any irregularities in putting cameras in polling stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73336	Thank you, Mr. Chevarlic, I believe that I did not hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure, because the National Assembly did not hold a vote on ballots, i.e. a secret vote here, but we are discussing a member of the Republic Election Commission. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73337	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 103. You don't have to be a professor to read the Rules of Procedure. It's not some Rules of Procedure, it's probably 20, 30, 40, 50 pages. Article 127 refers to the use of these cards. So it has nothing to do with the previous speech. But, my God, what do we do? In that address, and the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure that you did while I was speaking confirms all those facts of mine. So he was elected by the Central Committee to be the youngest committee member in the election to elect the candidate as much as it was proposed. Here you see, I got a round of applause from the F department and I also thank you for the tomato that flies and the pickle that bites. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in short, I understood that once he was elected by Tito himself, and the second time he chose him personally, as was the name of that ambassador, Scott. So he asked that list, Scott, to enter the way Tito used to do it, to enter without the will of the citizens, to enter the intervention of the American ambassador, and I don't know what's worse? Whether when Tito delegated him to the Belgrade Assembly or worse when Scott delegated him to the republican assembly. I think this is the other one. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73338	I'll do it if you fall from Tito to Scott, like now... The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are at the end of the 11th convocation of the National Assembly since the introduction of multilaterals in our country. Unfortunately, in the last 30 years, the parliamentary majority have trampled more or less on parliamentary democracy and have shown that they do not know what the essence of parliamentaryism is and have shown that they believe that the will of 126 votes is all light. It is completely wrong to set up parliamentary democracy and I believe that there is one of the MPs here who understands it very well, no matter what it may be slightly different. Unfortunately, most MPs still don't know what parliamentary democracy means, they didn't want to learn, they didn't want to read, they still think that the ossion is behavioral with 126 votes for or against enough to behave the way they behave. Very often the electoral will of citizens after the elections was conducted was severely violated, occasionally involving security services, again the ruling majority. We are reminded of the theft of mandates multiple times in the Republic of Serbia since 1994 when the SRS left seven MPs who received between 50 and 100 thousand marks then. Records exist, security services showed these footage ten years after the event. Well, then in 2002 when the Socialists were stealing votes, Branislav Ivkovic and six other MPs with the help of then Vladan Batic. Well, then she came in 2008 when Tomislav Nikolic and a group of 18 MPs stole the mandates of the SRS with the help of Tadic, Miki Rakic, Milo Djukanovic, Canet Subotic, and others, especially those of the US and British embassies. Why is it important that we remind ourselves of all this? Because we Serbian radicals always speak in principle. We fought in the same way for those mandates stolen by Branislav Ivkovic to the Socialists, as we fought for the mandates Tomislav Nikolic stole by the SRS. I'll tell you, I'll remind you that some of them were in the National Assembly at the time, and some colleagues might be surprised to hear this part now. In 2008, we were close to getting our mandates back on the Administrative Board, but legalist Vojislav Kostunica, DSS, Milos Aligrudic came out of the room so there would be no quorum and we would lose those mandates. I'm not going to elaborate on it now, nor should we be dealing with these mandates right now, but about a year, a year and a few days later, Dragan Shormaz, with a stolen mandate and the same DSS, passed over to the SNS as well. We fought so hard at the time to get back, that mandate came back to the DSS, so this same Milos Aligrudic, who came out of the quorum, told the radicals to return to the mandates, I cannot believe that you are fighting for our mandate, so I am ashamed because then I came out of the session that you do not get your mandates. So I'm just saying this as an illustration, first of all because of the public. Some people here know that, some people will never understand, but because of the public, I remind myself that no one can tell us that we're telling a daily political story, that we're telling some hollow story, some demagogy and so on. We always speak in principle and always fight in principle for what we think is, above all, in accordance with the Constitution, the law, our ideology, our party programme, both in the end and in the beginning, the interests of all people living in Serbia. You are here complaining about the Dvora, what they are doing to you, what Bosko is doing, why Bosko is not arrested and so on, and when we say he is under the pressure of Scott, that Bosko, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, and these Chad, Canak, Boris, that these two non-census groups were introduced into the Assembly by five percent. Well, come on, remember what you were telling us back then. How many microphones you've turned off, as far as you've warned us, how much you've threatened us with the sentences from the Rules of Procedure, the warnings. Now, when it came to your head, then you now remembered that they were indeed MPs, without a certain number of votes and without censorship, which was then required by law. Now you've been acting the same way, here for days, months, we've been hearing that some MPs shouldn't get paid because they boycott the National Assembly, because they don't come to this hall, because they don't come to sessions and so on. And then Gordana Comic, who is part of the group, shows up, and then you give her 126 MPs to vote for her proposal just because she promised to go to the polls. There she is now in some kind of 021 or whatever that group's called. Why? Because it's in your best interest to whine and the other cowards who come to you here, in front of whom you complain, you have to prove that so-called. the so-called "civil option" Democraticly, because you call it the democratic opposition will go to the polls, and the Serbian Radical Party is not democratic enough because we are sitting here because we are working, because we are submitting amendments, because we are criticising the proposals, because we vote when we think it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia to vote. No, that's not democracy to you. Democracy is what those from the West draw for you, and then, accordingly, you change your political views, i.e. You have no political attitudes, but you take those who are given to you. Now we have the same situation with this "vaber" or SMS or what's-his-name of this parliamentary group. So what's the difference, we ask you, between Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Tatjana Macura? Is Sanda Raskovic Ivić a flyer? Yes, it is. And we say it is. Why is Tatjana Macura Tanya now, she's no longer a flyover? Is Sanda Raskovic a traitor because he claims to have been genocide in Srebrenica? Yes, it is. Is that the same Tatjana Macura who also says that Srebrenica was a genocide? It's not. Now she's Tanya. Is Sanda Raskovic a traitor because he belongs to a group that says Kosovo is a state? Yes, it is. Why is Tatjana Macura not the same traitor because it belongs to a group that says Kosovo is a state? Where are your principles, where are your arches? A colleague here said that one of us hasn't read and that we don't know since that Macura has a member of the Republic Election Commission. We also talked here about when you let her with a stolen mandate and a few of them, no one else alive... Now, if anyone says, here's the deputy secretary who's his job, if he says, who are the members of that so-called. Members' groups by name and last name, shall I hang myself? So, you're making a comedy out of the National Assembly, you're just trying to please those Westerners, you're Tatjani Macura and that "vaber", the SMS group on July 10, 2019, letting him have a member and deputy member of the RIK, and that man wasn't coming, this Dusan Dragoljic, was never in RIK, she probably caught him somewhere on the street, just like Radulovic caught her on the street at the time, so he put him on the election list. And yet, we do not defend Radulovic, but the mandates they use belong to the party enough. The people in that particular number voted for the party enough was enough and it can't be anyone else to... You can have anything. What else can you do about it because you didn't want to change the Rules of Procedure? The Republic Election Commission has 17 members. The law says that no party can have more than half the members. You have it. You have 10 members. Why? Because you have seven advances, but of your MP groups that went out with you to the election you have two more plus one plus one, that's four, seven and four 11. Eleven versus 17 is the majority. That's against the law. You did not want to listen to the Rules of Procedure change, so that 100 of you can come out on one election list, but when the election is over, that 100 makes up one parliamentary group. He can't do it any other way. It's different to step on democracy, it's different to step on parliamentaryism. I like to remember when I threw my colleague out of here, you think I said that you think that with 126 you can vote that the country is round, she said yes, yes, we can, but she didn't know the answer when I told her that the country would remain round after that vote. What else did we have in this wonderful parliamentary democracy? Do you remember that we had some time in the National Assembly, but you don't remember, maybe five of you here know that there were 308 MPs in the National Assembly because the DOS had a fight, and the yellow ones threw out the DSS, and then the court returned the DSS, and then at one point, 308 MPs. Have you forgotten that the National Assembly voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki? We're not. And then Boris Tadic, the biggest traitor normally in Serbia ever, says the affair is over with a court epilogue. He's lying. She's never even been in court. The court discussed Natasha Milojevic's card, which was a member of the party, I think, Nebojja Covic at the time and did not refer to the Neda Arneric card voted from Bodrum. So, there's been a lot of stuff here. That's a lot of And instead of learning from mistakes, instead of accepting suggestions, to accept suggestions, to accept experienced remarks, you from the level of force, you from the level of power, you from the level of sensitivity, you from the principle -- I can do whatever you want, and Tatjana Macura gets totally illegal, the member already has, and now she gets a deputy member of the Republic Election Commission. There's no one who thinks for himself, who can make that clear. So, was there a party when elections were scheduled and held? It's not. Did she become an MP on the list of a political party? Yes, it is. Did she steal those mandates? Yes, it is. So there is nothing in parliamentary life, nothing more immoral than stealing a mandate. It's supposed to be a felony with the greatest punishment possible. It's corruption a couple of excellencies. I mentioned 50 to 100,000 marks for stealing radical mandates. Never take a term without money, remember that, without serious money. And this Tanja Macura, and this Sanda Raskovic Ivić, are all corruption affairs, all of these mandates were walking, selling from party to party for serious money because someone always had an interest in it. Right now you from the government have an interest in having Tatjana Macura, having 21 and Gordana Komic, so you can say to Kukan – Kukan, don't ever, even though nobody knows who you represent anymore, because you're some former clerk, but here we've made sure that there's something that can be called, as they like to say for themselves – a citizen option. And what the representatives of these parties and Tatjana Macura and Gordana Komic and others say – Ratko Mladic is a war criminal, Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal, genocide took place in Srebrenica, Kosovo is a state, you do not care. You're interested in the Western bosses being satisfied. It's a shame, it's a disgrace, it's a fall in parliamentaryism, it's a shame and sin that 30 years from the multiparty that we're even discussing this in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73340	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73341	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, many think that this point, or the replacement of one member of the Republic Election Commission, is not too important. It's true that it may not mean much, but it's also true that it says a lot. First of all, he talks a lot about what Serbia is in today, and he talks a lot about who the regime's major favorite is today. In order for citizens beside small screens not to be in a dilemma, this is about replacing a member of the Republic Election Commission who has donated the regime to a party called the Modern Serb Party. One would think, then, that such a party and modern Serbia are something that has arisen in stealing, something that has arisen from disrespecting the will of Serbian citizens and disrespecting voters. The first question is, in what elections was the party of modern Serbia involved? In 2016, look well, check, such a list did not participate in the elections and therefore could not win any mandates. Whoever has not won the mandate does not have the right to members of the RIK, it does not have the right to seats, it does not have the right to members of any of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it does not have the right to finance from the republican budget. Of all these things that I have listed, you are not directly financing them from the Republic budget, but it is absolutely certain that you have found a lot of lateral ways to do so and thus allow them to participate in the elections and to play the opposition. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that the phantom parliamentary group was created by Radulovic's party "Enough" as they were already called, so that they fell apart to many parts soon after the elections, because they had no ideology because they had no programme. It's a group of ad hoc people who were gathered, because at that moment it was appropriate for someone to be former Vucic's minister and former Vucician's trust man to be, call, his opposition, and it shows that you're the kind of person who prefers the opposition, the ones you've worked with the most sweetly. You know, you've worked very well with Gilas. Gilas financed you, Gilas kept your mandates, Gilas provided you with media space, you were correct in return, you did not prosecute him, you left him those 619m euros you keep talking about, and how much you claim to have robbed Serbian citizens, so you chose him as president of the basketball union of Serbia, etc., and then decided, so let's when we're already so good let's make him, call the opposition. The same is happening now with those who are apostates from Radulovic and imagine the one who falls away from the one whom you call "mad Radulje" what the opposition can be and how high-quality opposition it is. Well, to wish. I fully understand Vukic, who would wish for a better opposition than that. As long as he has such opposition, he will enjoy power longer than Tito in his time. But let's see why you're doing this to the opposition. You're giving them a member of the RIK. He said just before, Alexander Martinović – well, we gave the opposition that and that. What did you give the opposition? You gave them a REM member, where did you get it out of your pocket? You claimed that you had no influence on REM members, you claimed that they were impartial, so Tanja Fajon came from the white world, you were a little jealous when she was coming, a little bit of a domestic public statement that no one was affecting you, that you were firm and flat, and that she was known for her negative attitudes against Serbia, but you did not fail to fulfil the EU tasks that Tanja Fajon brought to you. To remember, there are a lot of those who don't remember long here, that Serbia's President Aleksandar Vukic, and that's what he said at the end of 2018 -- well, I can't think of meeting any of the only conditions and five million to bring them together. And for days we watched it on television as he is firm and he is the team led by evil Gilas, the evil Jeremic, the evil Bastac and others, that he will never fulfil any condition. But it quickly went to his statement when he said -- the government gave the opposition more than the opposition asked. He says it's because he's a permissive man. About four or five months ago, he said here's how we're going to get the opposition to set electoral conditions for themselves. But of course he did not give it to the opposition, he gave it to his false opposition and to his Chad and to his Cank and to his Tatjana Macuri and to everyone who will listen to him very well and obediently. You say you gave a member of REM. Who did you give it to? Did LDP. You Cheda are more reliable than Nebojska Stefanovic that we are not lying. Imagine, well Chad, he served every regime so reliably, the Wolf recognized it and so he wouldn't take it. It's a similar thing with Nenado Chanka. He's always listening to the boss, he's going to get a little complain, he's going to get a little jog, he's always going to be anti-Serbian, he's going to be constant. That has to get at least that minimum vote in the election, but when the stop-pani comes, he'll always be grateful to his boss, I guess that never came up a question. Many did not understand even a few days ago when we talked about this law on kidnapped babies, when we asked how you chose Mrs. Macura to be invited to the government of the Republic of Serbia, that with her and Natasha Kandic you humiliated the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by saying one thing here, you claim that the law is the best possible. You know, instead of deciding on the National Assembly, you're somewhere else making the cool arrangements, notifying the public at night, and the next day doesn't change the stories, it's the same record. You're still talking about how it's the best possible solution, but the solution you've changed overnight. This shows perhaps in the best possible way Serbia works. In Serbia today, everything is a false, false opposition, false independent bodies, false independent institutions, everything here is fake. You know, you claim you have no influence on REM, so overnight, then REM members when needed, who have just been elected, you said it's against the law to change REM members, it's impossible, it's wonderful arguments, but during the night you stepped on them like all your other attitudes run over. We have heard from the SPS a few days ago that they are pushing to end trade with mandates, and that is the greatest evil that has hit Serbia since 2000 and beyond, when the sale of mandates started, when the political prostitution started and when individuals set out today to represent one another and tomorrow to fire another. There's an even worse situation at the place, and it's where it's traded with mandates, and that's where it's bought. You know very well in which way most of you are provided, rather than stopping, to say let's really see that our society is healthier, that the political scene is cleaner, that we finally make institutions, you're doing exactly the opposite. You're technically speaking one thing. Here, Aleksandar Martinovic has been strangling us here for 20 minutes as they, my God, are eager for dialogue, as they want to discuss these issues politically with coffee. So is it after eight years of your regime, is Serbia a happy country in which political opponents really discuss politics with coffee, or have you turned politics even at the lowest level, even when it comes to members, about the choice of members of the local community at least farthest in Serbia, you have turned it into a struggle to life and death. So the jeeps come, and there come some strong men, and you share the oil, so you share the sugar, so you pay, so you take doctors, you fix your teeth, you share free glasses, there's nothing you don't do, I guess because you understand democracy well. You say then -- well, we don't win because we're holding all the TVs, here, we can now 15 days before the election to let someone else visit, but before that, only Macura could, so when it was right for you, Chomićka could, so can Canak, so those you say can visit. It shows what Serbia really is, what a state of the media is, and you can't say it's not one huge, huge advantage. Another interesting idea was said by Aleksandar Martinovic. He says there is no REM to prevent the opposition from winning. First of all, the question is, well, how does he know that? Was he in opposition and won? Well, it's not. On the contrary, he was in the SRS, all the worst talk about SNS representatives, built a political career criticising Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, and then in 2012, when he ran out of mandate, well, then he said - I was a donkey, I woke up one morning, looked in the mirror, I said I was a donkey and moved to SNS. For you, it was the best recommendation possible, to put him, as he described himself, to be your leader, to be head of your parliamentary group, and that is, among other things, a reward for him and an indication of how you judge both about honor and about morality and about dignity and about everything else. Well, you see today how much there is in the SNS House of Representatives and the ruling coalition. You're gone, you can't get the quorum together, the ones who won't be on the list from tomorrow and anyway, well, the best grade your president's ever given. Can anyone say the opposite of what Alexander Vukic said, and I support him, that he will remove 70% of the MPs from his party? You're not satisfied, you're not doing a good job, you don't know what you're saying, you don't have any good arguments, and that's a fact. He said he'd replace the ministers. He says, maybe there'll be one, maybe two, at most three, so that's 75% of the SNS ministers, and that's an indicator of how well you've worked. (President: Bringing the end of your colleagues. I'm done. So, in one sentence, just so it's not slow, so-called. A modern-day Serbian party is a state project, a regime project aimed at playing the opposition in the elections, and you show it from day to day, but be careful, as such projects often happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73342	Thank you. A little more sentences than one. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73343	There is nothing more beautiful than when those who kiss Gilasu's laps and laps walk up in the National Assembly, so we are told something about this particular Dragan Gilas. Otherwise, I don't know if, Mr. Risticevic, you're right when you say they came from Vranj, I don't know, they never lived there, but it was just an excuse to put 19,000 euros of people's money in their pocket. Those who could break up with Gilas in Belgrade in time, so they got fat boards, boards, they can do the same thing today, you know, with the same Gilas, just from now on at the Old Town level. So, if anyone knows Dragan Gilas and shares his love and passion for other people's money, by the rule of the people, it's those who mention him, but I just don't understand what they mention him to us, him and, as it were, Radulovic. You know what's interesting? Well, with that Gilas and his Mark Kes Bastic, who rackets there in the Old Town, they share the money together, but also with that Radulovic, because part of that coalition, fantastic, wine, next to Gilas's party, their Bastic bags and what they mention, because they know them well and share the same love and passion for other people's money, there are also LDP and Radulovic, this just mentioned joyous and many others. These people share not only the passion for other people's money with Gilas and Radulovic, but also political manners, and I would say the political level, because it's all the same. Just as Gilas keeps saying, as Radulovic keeps saying, so now what we listen to, and we listen to the whole mandate. It's all the same, as if they've copied stories from each other – everything's a lie in Serbia, the stories we've just heard, nothing here is right, every success here is a fake, all of them are the same stories, like Gilas, repeating Radulovic, and so repeat those who share with them and their Bastaci money in the Old City, the same stories of jeeps that haunt someone somewhere. Unless they're referring to new 140,000-euro jeeps, Range Rover autobiographies. They understand you. But those stories about some of our fictitious jeeps, so it's all from Gilas and Radulovic. Stories that there is no democracy in Serbia, and from Dilas and Radulovic, all the same and everything fully prescribed, just like recipes for taking people's money. But speaking of democracy, one important thing has been said. The question has been asked – what can we do today in our country, as it is said, with coffee? Now, it's such a difficult dictatorship and it's such a big repression that these, God saw them, they spent the whole term at the coffee shop, the whole mandate around the National Assembly, they come here when they take care of the places on the lists, because that was the subject, but since the question is, how are we and how long are we going to be with certain oppositions? If I told you to hear you, and if the people who are following this transmission, while the opposition is like this, if only there were opposition like this, we would be easy and we wouldn't have to worry about this, or any other election. What is much more important for that self-resistance, while those who have spent their entire mandate in joy, at cafes in cafes, I fear neither our good will nor that descent to 3% will be worth it at the end, but that is a question for them, their lists and their Gilas and Bastace when they share money with coffee.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73344	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73345	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see how the truth hurts and you see how the arguments hurt. I totally understand why Mr. Orlic was so excited when I was talking about flyers, because, among other things, he's a flyover. In 2008, when the SRS won the elections, therefore, not before the elections, but when we won the elections, when we won the largest number of votes, when we signed a coalition agreement with the SPS on forming a city government and negotiated the formation of a republican government, at times when it was certain, it joined the SRS. He joined because he was in favour of our programme because he was an indignant opponent of the EU, because he loved big Serbia, because he supported everything the SRS had done for those 18 years on the political scene. But what happened after that? After that, we did not form the city government, we did not enter the Republic government, but they stole these advances from our mandates and the yellows continued to rule. After that, Mr. Orlic, as one consistent man, do you think he stayed in the SRS? After 15 days he went to SNS. He probably woke up one morning too, so he said - I feel like Martinovic, so I'm going to the other side, now I'm going to be a tough EU advocate and today I'm going to be against big Serbia, I'm going to say all the opposite of what I've been saying so far. When you talk about power with the yellows, who was more in power with the yellows, you or me? Rakovica, where was the first government of SNS and DS formed? Well, right there. Look, he left his best SNS personnel. And even Vesic, imagine how valuable Vesic Djilasu was, how valuable he was to Gilasu when he wrote a political programme after 2000, the new political manifesto DS. And when that job is done, then Gilas said -- well, thank you very much, now you can go to the brothers of the elderly, you'll be very important there, they'll need you very much, you'll lead the city of Belgrade, we'll cooperate just like we did today. Therefore, crow crows do not bathe their eyes. That's the fundamental difference between you and me. You're saying one thing today, you're saying another tomorrow. Today you stand for one thing, tomorrow you stand for another. As for Mr Bastac, we joined him when he was neither a member of the DS, nor a member of Gilas' party, and we did not enter because of it, but rather made an agreement on the interests of the citizens, first of all, of the Old City. You're talking about crime, and the only criminal that's been proven there is the man you run as a bear on television, who admitted to recruiting people in Old Town, that he was taking money for gardening, and that I don't know what else and that he didn't give it to Bastac. You're not processing him. You don't process Bastac, you don't process Gilas. I'm not their lawyer. I've always been their political opponent, but it speaks exclusively of your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73346	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73347	As there's nothing more beautiful than when those who kiss Gilasu's laps and their laps begin to talk about Gilas, there's nothing like it when they deny themselves. Okay, we want to talk about history a little bit, there's no problem, just in the beginning to understand each other, between the moments when the coalition at the level of the city of Belgrade failed and the moment when the SNS was formed, a little more than 15 days went by, a little more than 15 days, and that's an indication to you how much it's a story from a little bit of complete nonsense. It's no problem, I'll help establish precise chronology, although I don't know who that's interesting to except the two of us. So, in 2008, I remember very well, in 2008, I remember very well, because then I signed an SRS approach during the protests organised daily, and after Ranko Panic was killed. From the moment the agreements for the city of Belgrade failed, to that moment already passed, hi-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha, it was a long time ago, and it was already quite clear that the SRS was double-crossed at both the Serbian government and the Belgrade city level. I know that. And as you will see from the sequel of the story, I remember other interesting details about that period. I joined right there in the period when it was clear that those who talked – we advocated, to remind them now, they were talking – we advocate being an equal partner in the EU with Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. So, at the time, they were great Europeans and swore to join the EU. I somehow concluded that I didn't belong with these people, but I decided to follow those that made me start voting for the SRS, which is why I wanted to join that party. It was Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic and many other people I appreciated personally at the time. I will return to that period at the very end of this story, to remind you of who I didn't appreciate personally. They say those I didn't appreciate -- we moved on to the other side by continuing that policy that won the most votes in Serbia in 2008, which had the highest confidence of Serbian citizens, and we continued. So we didn't cheat, so we went to Gilas to share boards and boards with him, but those who know him well and those who do it today with him and his Bastac in Old Town. They're lying about not being with Bastic when he was in the DS. Bastac, precisely because he made power with them, was timely and expelled from the DS, but only temporarily and only formally, as you will see, because today they rule in the Old Town and with Bastac, as well as with current DS representatives, just as there is the LDP, just as Radulović is happy and the rest of that wonderful society. They say it's for the benefit of the citizens of Old Town. What good is it for the citizens of Old Town to rob this people without doubt? What's the use of millions of dollars being stolen on geronto-home projects? What good is it to steal more than a hundred million just through a sports center? Who did you make happy? They say there were no culprits proven, except for one man who testified. Here, you have headlines in the paper – caught some big, big beast, and among other things – a powerful politician from Old Town fell, committed crimes of abuse of position and money laundering, Marko Nakov, a official who worked with them, with them and their Bastac worked all the time. Then they say there wasn't anything controversial about it, except that people were giving a little bit of cash. It's totally fine, and that's nice, so they say there was nothing controversial about it, except a little bit of book burning, and they're saying who's burning the books, what did you say? Let me remind you, you said - fascists burn books. Now with those fascists burning books, you decided to be together, to be one, to show that you share the same values. None of us have done it, and none of us have ever cheated on us in that sense. It's all your work. If you're going to be proud of something, you're proud of it. How did you do it with Gilas when we fought Gilas and we won... (President: I thank you. ) The last sentence. We first did it in 2009 in Zemun and Vozdovac and then showed Serbia that change is possible, that victory is possible. You were protecting and defending this Gilas during that time. Fortunately for Belgrade and Serbia, both you and Gilas were unsuccessful. The last thing I want to tell you. In 2008, when these protests failed, do you know what the protesters said about why the protests failed? Because some imaginary big politician decided to sabotage everything, because he couldn't stand that Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, were more important than him, more important, than he had to send lies to The Hague, to sabotage people he was supposed to cooperate with. His songs were singing to him, singing songs to Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73348	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73349	It's really too much fun, Mr. Orlic, I don't know if you're making up all this stuff you just said on the way or you're making up houses, and then you're slamming the lines of what you said, what you didn't. So, come on, sing to someone else, you know who you sing to and how you sing, Mr. Orlic. You must be a good singer and that's why you're here. You're talking about how you beat someone in 2009 at Vozdovac and Zemun. The SRS authorities in Zemun brought down Dragan Gilas along with Aleksandar Antic in the City Assembly against the constitution and against the law that the elections could take place. For more than a month, the session lasted, for more than a month we fought to prevent it. It's the first and only time that police have been brought to the City Assembly to prevent the opposition's council from entering the O.R., and that's what your Gilas did for you. You know, at the time Gilas went to fake interviews, to fake duels with Alexander Wolfich. I ask him why he does it, why he doesn't go out with us on a television duel, and he says, "I won't, I know what he'll be like, and I know what you'd be like." Therefore, Gilas did not give us more than one million euros from the city register for the party's vote, for "Great Serbia" was never a single dinar, but he gave it to you, and you, Mr. Orlic, you joined the SRS, and after 15 days of membership, when they left and formed a party with a completely different programme, then you went with them, and that says that you are in principle with power. Now, look, where are your favorites from the so-called. SMS? Where is your dear Tatjana Macura, who you call in government, who you're taking on television, who you're giving members of RIK, to which you're giving all the benefits you can, trying to represent her as some kind of opposition? Look out, the one that fell under your minister's rails, your Radulet, is now going to be an opposition. They are not Serbian citizens blind and your regime will eventually fall. You can extend it for a while by controlling REM, by controlling television, by putting pressures on everyone, but every evil comes to an end, so it will come to this. You personally, you know, you keep drilling, we're this, we're that. God forbid all of you together without Alexander Wolfie in one election should go out. Where would you get those results? How could you be so powerful, how could you dominate? After all, if you were so smart and wise politically, would you change 70% of you and 80% of the ministers who were in the government? You're no good, that's what your president told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73350	You still seem to regret that Alexander Vukic left the SRS. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73351	Well, you see how funny that is. They say – we were actually for power all the time. The ones who chose the fight. We who have decided to deal politically with the "yellow regime" of Dragan Gilas and his satraps at the time, and have fought them for years, while they have been living with him for years, receiving beautiful appointments from the boards of directors he has given them, receiving beautiful appointments from the supervisory boards that he has given them, and some, like Nemanje Sarovic, have received on their hands. How long was it? Four hundred fifty thousand, but it's not a dinar, it's something a little nicer, it's at Shaper's firm, right? It's well collected, added to what's being grabbed, like this, when it's traveling to Vranje, and it's actually being spent all the time on these cafes, on these cafes, just like it's having a good time today, but today there's no such money from that government. And that seems to be the biggest tragedy and the biggest problem of those who can't forgive themselves for not being successful. Not to us that we are successful, but to ourselves that they are who they are. So we were wrong, and we actually cheated on us for winning both Zemun and Vozdovac, beating that Gilas and his yellow company. And they paved their posters every night, and for their account, they dealt with us. While we fought, fought, and finally won, they just put their pockets in our pockets and watched us fight. They're great heroes, I just don't know what! I don't know if Dragan Gilas ever forgave them for not being able to defend him with success? Or maybe there's been some reconciliation, because now in this old town with fascists who burn books, they're working perfectly together, and they show how much they're the same, here, as they say and show that they're the same. If it wasn't for me to claim anything more than that, I could only agree with that. When they say, it'll be a time when we're in power, so it will, of course. Everything in politics is changing. And this is going to change. We say it first. Of course he will. But you know when? When someone better shows up. Those whose cheek is so hard that they can drill through a paper bill only if they give it to Gilasov or Bastac's hand, you can never be our competition. And so far it has been shown, and 2009, 2010, 2012, if you want and 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018, choose the year you want. That kind of competition can't be in anything for us. It's simply not possible and there's no political justification. But when you say what anyone wants to achieve and what to tell the people, we simply, that there is no difference between you and the world whose money is most important, whose own pocket is the only sanctuary and which you are able to mix both years and months and dates and all living things, nothing matters. And what you were talking to yesterday and who you were working with yesterday and who you lied to, nothing matters. So we'll never be able to be the same, we who fight for results and you who have shown that it's the only thing in the world that interests you. In the end, even if you were successful in what you're doing, so obviously it wouldn't be the biggest problem that I recognize -- that someone can't forgive themselves that if at least there's nothing in politics, that obviously there's nothing in their party anymore, that was so valuable and deserved to get, worth a song from the people who protested that in 2008, in the Republic Square, in which they worship him so domestically, what is it today? Here's what's the biggest problem -- which is not Bosko Obradovic today. Is that the essence of the story? To make him big and famous by saying he needs to make a coup in Serbia, that he needs the military and the police to rebel and arrest Alexander Vukic. Would you then succeed in his political life in his own eyes? I tell you - there is no difference, whether you are at Boška Obradovica today or not. Once you choose such a society, you've shown that in everything, you're literally in everything, and even in this most incredible nonsense that they're doing today, you're exactly the same. But these are the things you chose. We didn't force you to do that. It's not our fault for your failures. As far as Serbia's success is concerned, as much as we deserve, we will not say that because you are on the other side, you are, personally, who you are. Our work and our efforts had nothing to do with us, it had to be earned and done by this Alexander Vukic who still haunts you, and you best showed yourself the moment you accepted to be, well, what you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-03-0.u73352	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:30.
