ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u874	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is for the Home Secretary. It is the process of passiveising the citizens' residence in the municipality of Medvedja. As has already been said several times, a massive process of pasiving citizens' residences is being carried out in this municipality, which is why they lose their civil rights and, among other things, the right to vote. In this way, the latest elections took place in this municipality in 2018 showed that this process took place most drastically towards the citizens of Albanian nationality, and had a direct impact on the representative power of the Albanian community in this municipality. Since the eight parliamentary mandates, the number of Albanian parties in this municipality before 2018, in the 2018 elections have only been able to get three mandates for eradicating a large number of voters. So this, in my opinion, is a non-democratic, anti-constitutional process that is taking place that directly affects the change in the ethnic structure of this community. My question for the interior minister is – how many citizens pasivized their residence in this municipality during 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 in the following settlements: Medvedja administrative center, Sijarinska Banja, Tupale, Svirce, Grbace, Rama Banja, Stara Banja, Sijarina, Djulekara, Lapaštica and Kapit? My second question for the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of the Commission for Missing Persons, Mr. Odalovic. As the media had already informed us, on November 16th, at the site of Kijavak quarry near Raška remains were found 15 to 17 C.E. persons suspected of being the bodies of Albanians from Kosovo. As Mr. Odalovic, president of the government's missing persons commission told RTS, this is one of the locations being searched for information obtained from Pristina. My question to the Prime Minister, or Mr. Odalovic, is whether executive DNA analyses are necessary to identify the persons from that mass grave and what are the other locations in question that should be searched? If no final analysis has been made at this time, please inform this Assembly and me as the applicant of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u875	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u876	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first in the opening statement, or the opening act, before I question the competent authorities and the competent institutions, I will be personally. In one for me, I would say, and the family for a very difficult period, one of the people who was with me and my family was also Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, in the right sense of support. Alexander Vukic knows that family is not only one important thing, but family is everything, but it is respect, first of all. A word they don't understand and don't reach the minds of those who are always for hate, and against everything that the ruling coalition does and only without an alternative, without any proposal, but only to be criticised. So today, first of all as a man, I can't stay silent, because in life you have to have principles, you have to have certain attitudes and respect for them. First of all, as a man, I can't stay silent and just look at all the quasi-politicals who are ready for all the quasi-politicals to make political points and make political profits. The brutal campaign against the president of the Republic and his family continues, and a few days ago and here today, unfortunately, this time by frustrated, I would say, politicians who have no other way to be media present and try to survive politically in any way. They are fellows of this quasi-political leader of the opposition, Dragan Gilas. He continues with the monstrous attacks on the president of Serbia, on his children, which is the most ferocious. The one who has ceased to exist for the political public is specifically the quasi politician, Srdjan Nog, who, for the political public, has ceased to exist, now not choosing the words he insults, chooses a terrible inhuman path to somehow try to get into public life again. How much evil and hate should be in someone who draws targets at the head of family members, the head of the children of the legitimately elected president of the state who enjoys the enormous trust and support of the citizens? This is not political behavior, but, I would say, the character of the most terrestrial and bizarre negative campaign that only speaks of the moral and character of those who are this dirty and immoral political marketing ready to lead. The increasingly present primitiveism, hate speech and violence are apparently the only weapons available to those who do not have their own political programmes, nor know which political path they should go. The question arises – are there even limits for such people? Incredibly, how much hatred is contained in morbid words and insults directed to President Vukic and his family, how much does someone have to be without honor and have to insult underage children and family in this way? It's no coincidence that all this is happening at the moment when the president is about to declare war on crime and the mafia, so we call on the competent authorities and institutions to examine the link between these failed politicians and the criminal groups. We appeal to the competent authorities to take this kind of threat most seriously for those reasons, which is addressed to the president of the state and his family, because it is high time to take the law of the prescribed measures against those who send this hatred, the monstrous threats almost daily. We ourselves were witnesses and victims of his opiums. It is unacceptable for any family to be abused for political struggle and this must by no means become a norm of social behavior in Serbia. We all have to stand up together and all together to help the competent authorities and the competent institutions repeat, this cannot and should not be a norm of social behaviour in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u877	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u878	Mr. Milicevic listed some things that could serve as a creamworth for what I want to ask the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as all the state's authorities. I wouldn't agree if this was just a campaign of frustrated people. This best shows how used we are to this campaign and how much nobody cares about what anyone says about the family of the President of the Republic anymore. This best shows that it's become normal for us, that it's become everyday for us. Why do I think this is not just a matter of frustrated politicians, as counterpart Milicevic said? Because, and Aleksandar Martinovic is my witness, I called him on Saturday, five days ago, to ask him to ask this question, so five days ago the hit man was a hit man, Caba Der seems to be named, told the Hungarian investigative authorities that he had received an offer from two criminal clans to assassinate President Vukic. That news went completely under the radar, completely undetected, completely without comment. No, dear colleagues, political murder without a political background. There's no assassination on the president of the state without a political background. Today I am asking myself and you and the public in Serbia if, by chance, Mr Milicevic, we are witnessing these campaigns against President Vukic? I don't want to accuse anyone, I don't want to point a finger at anyone, but I can't help thinking that it's not by any chance that it's on the cover of a weekbook, about last year at this time, a sniper pointed at Alexander Vukic's head. That he's not by any chance one of their most spiritual, as they call him, and he's not funny, but he's funny and sad and miserable, caricature 10, 15, 20 targets per Alexander Vukic's body. If it weren't for random attacks on social networks on Alexander Vukic and his family from people we call "this lunatic, he's for treatment". No, it's not for treatment. That's why they call him crazy. How come the fake warrants are all the same and everybody's looking for the death of Alexander Vukic and his family? Then we get to what you said happened yesterday, and it happened the day before yesterday. It happened two days before that, and it happens every day. What's the matter? In my deepest conviction, preparing the public for what Chaba Der was supposed to do or some other Chaba Der would do. The fact that Aleksandar Vukic was in the grip of criminals and declared war on them. It's part of the story. But these criminals always seek political support for their actions. It seems to me that political support offers itself, that some people themselves come out to meet what they want to accomplish and create an atmosphere by drawing a target on the face of Alexander Vukic, on the heads of his children. They create an atmosphere that tomorrow, if anything like this should happen to all the other shoulders and say, well, that's what's expected. So I ask, does anyone think they're finally responding? So I ask what else needs to happen and does something need to happen to then post-festum react or do we try to do something to prevent what one wants to do, and the other, it seems, wants to do it? Or do they both want the same thing, as you wish? It's been five days since. Five days we've been here hearing about the price of tuxedo, five days we've heard about where and on which television was Predrag Kon, we've been listening to all kinds of speeches, and here in five days no one's mentioned Chabu Dera in this house until now, the man who admitted that he was offered money to kill Alexander Vukic. My dear gentlemen and ladies, this is the time for all of us to wonder how far this atmosphere has come when this sort of thing works for us so that they don't need anything special to react to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u879	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the session of MP Elvira Kovac. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the motions for decisions set out in points 13 to 19 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 13 to 19 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint, uniform search on the Proposal for a decision to suspend the position of the member of the Fiscal Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the Control of the Expension of Public Funds; the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the SPS; the Proposal for a Decision amending the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Serbia; the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has taken the decision to establish the composition of the parliamentary Committee for the Republic of Serbia, has been adopted by the Assembly of National Parliament, which has been adopted by the Presidents of Parliament. Do any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the discussion, I would just like to agree to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, called. George Milicevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u880	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think, of course, I'm talking about changes in committees, because that's the legitimate right of every parliamentary group, but what I want to talk about is the choice of Commissioners for Gender Equality, because I think it's important. I'm sorry, I thought you had opened the debate. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u881	There's a special debate about the Commissioner. This is about delegations and changes of board members. Here you go, Janko Langura.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u882	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Fiscal Council is concerned, we are all witnesses that Mr. Vukkovic left the Fiscal Council on his own initiative. More specifically, in his opinion, he is going to a better place in the private sector, not for reasons that certain opposition leaders have tried to play for us. As for the previous Fiscal Council report, we have all seen that they are criticising the government's measure to which our government has helped all citizens in one-off aid by paying 100 euros in dinar equivalent. This was better tried to make better use of those who, we remember, offered our citizens that famous aid of 1,000 euros. They tried to use those who were destroying our factories, those who were looking for loans for rebirth and so forth. I absolutely disagree with such criticism of the Fiscal Council and I believe that this measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has helped our citizens, as well as our economy, because for example, many developed countries were able to see the giving of so-called. The money helicopter encourages consumption. I have to add that our economic system is very stable, the reserves are high, so we could have done it. I must also say that we are currently the country with the largest growth in Europe. We will be threatening Croatia at the rate of GDP next year, which is only a few years ago, let's just all remember, during the previous regime, it was impossible. Croatia was light years ahead of us. I understand Mr. Dragan Gilas who doesn't understand the terms of the circular economy, because, you know, he can't imagine that the money of the citizens is being poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. He can't understand that. He is used to the money of all our citizens pouring into his pockets and into the pockets of his hearers. As far as the board is concerned, I'd have to say that committees are very important. So does the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, the previous regime did not respect the Rules of Procedure that they brought themselves. Since the SNS in parliament, committees have become very important permanent working bodies that are very important for the work of the National Assembly. I would take the opportunity to commend the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues and Mr Martinovic at his work so far. I understand you, Mr. Martinovic, and I know that during the previous period you have had major problems with the MPs who have used every opportunity, as well as board sessions to strengthen the reputation of the National Assembly. We all remember very well when Bosko Obradović, a proven bully so far, physically attacked Mr. Martinovic. It wasn't the first, and it wasn't the last time that Bosko proved what we all already knew. Let's just remember that Maji Gojkovic, then president of parliament, wrapped his hand in her office. Let's remember how he called for violent demonstrations. We remember how he surrounded the National Assembly, how he surrounded the presidency, and what probably hurt most all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when he tried to break the window of this Parliament with the flag of our country, which is the sanctity of every citizen, for which our ancestors fought, which is a symbol of our history and our freedom, and to break the window of this parliament with violent protesters. Today, the same Bosko Obradovic continues its policy of lies and violence. Today, the same Bosko Obradovic is calling for early elections. Let us remember that only six months ago this same fascist boycotted those elections, so I now ask him from this place – what changed Bosko in the previous six months? The only thing that has changed in the past six months has been that Bosko Obradovic, and after the break-up of the alliance famous for Serbia's thieving and its eviction from the so-called. the united opposition, lost direct funding by Tanja Fajon and by Dragan Gilas. He now sees in all ways that as soon as possible the state budget and money of all our citizens, but unfortunately for him, Serbian citizens, although this same Bosko Obradovic once has the courage to go to elections, will not give him support, although censorship, I will remind you, never lower 3%. I would also take the opportunity to congratulate Members of the Sandra Christmas on the appointment as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. Sandra, there's a very big job ahead of you and you're going to have to do some serious work to find a way to look at these tycoon media that daily calls for the murder of President Alexander Vukic and who, and when someone else does, they're looking forward to it. They didn't think of condemning any such attack at all. That democracy of theirs, that media darkness, that they're talking about, that free art they're getting up to, now I'm going to show you some photos of our citizens seeing if, please, you're increasing this, is this the media darkness in which Serbia is? Is this sniper rifle directed at the president of the Republic of Serbia that democracy you want? No, gentlemen. This is an invitation to the murder of the president of the state. We are witnessing that in one of the most tragic events that took place in Serbia's modern history, when His Holiness Patriarch left us, Serbian Mr. Iriney also made some headlines and some tycoon media tried to use it to win cheap political points. Gentlemen, what you're imagining is not democracy. It is an attempt to Satanize both the president of the Republic and all citizens and believers of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association is also on the agenda. Mr. Orlic, I know that during the previous period you had a large series of meetings with Europarliamentaries, often explaining to them the real state of media freedom in Serbia. I know that you have been forced to answer countless daily lies to the opposition and I know that you have worked with great energy and energy to raise the reputation of the Serbian parliament in Europe and I thank you most sincerely for that. I also know, Mr. Orlic, that in the coming period, you will have great problems with the Gilas Europarliamentaries, with their lies that they bring up daily, either via electronic or printed media. I'm thinking first and foremost of a certain Mrs. Tanja Fajon. The lady who privatised the post of Europarliamentary and who often gives herself the right to comment on things that are not relevant to her and which are not within the scope of her work. We remember her statements after the parliamentary elections in Serbia, that the government in Serbia is illegal. For a reason, she stated that the turnout was low. The elections in Serbia took place during the duration of the terrible pandemic of the coronary virus. The exit in Serbia was slightly above 50%. I'll remind you, too, of a very important fact. When Mrs. Tanja Fajon was elected representative of Slovenia in the European Parliament, the turnout in Slovenia was 20%. I don't think, gentlemen, that Mrs. Tanya Fajon had 28%, that we weren't lying, that's a thought noun for her, no, the overall turnout that day was 28%. As we all know very well, Tanja Fajon in Serbia is the only personal protector of tycoon Dragan Gilas. She works directly for his interests and only his interests. It never occurred to the lady in question that she was working in the interests of Slovenians in Serbia, as well as working for the interests of Serbs in Slovenia. As we all know very well, Serbs in Slovenia do not have the status of a national minority, while Slovenians in Serbia, although Slovenians in Serbia are somewhat below 0.06%, while Serbs in Slovenia, according to their list, are more than 3%, although some surveys show that this number is far higher. Slovenians in Serbia, their rights as a national minority are fully realised. I repeat: Serbs in Slovenia do not have any rights. Mrs. Tanja Fajon never thought to deal with such a question. I'm going to bring you a little closer to what these double arches are all about. This facility is located in the center of Ljubljana. This facility was once a family home of a prominent Jewish family, which was unfortunately killed by Nazis. The facility today includes Mrs. Tanja Fajon's party where she goes to work daily, although she had to return the house to the Jewish community long ago. Well, we've had enough of those double arches and that hypocrisy. It is our obligation to constantly point out to our citizens what double arches are and what President Aleksandar Vukic is fighting with every day. Tanja Fajon also forgets that her favorites in Serbia have never presented any programme to the citizens. Have you ever heard of them doing anything? Did you hear they're gonna do something? Did they put out any kind of program, except, of course, they're going to tear Wolfie down, except they're going to kill Wolfie. Did they say they'd build more miles of highways? Did they say they'd build more high-speed railroads? Did they say they'd make more schools, more hospitals, change politics, make better reforms? No, I don't. No, they're not. Their only policy on how to kill Alexander Vukic. They are aware that they do not have the support of citizens and that legitimately they can never come to power. I remind you that more than 50% of our population on channel 1 and channel 2, there are two televisions, two Gilas and a school TV that has invested several hundred million euros. The two TVs are the main tools of Dragan Šolak and Dragan Gilas on the way to take down Alexander Vukic. We all remember very well when there was a photo of President Alexander Vukic and his family, who was in line with the biggest criminals in the country, on the screen of this one television called Nova S. It is my duty and obligation to show the citizens the original photograph that I came up with that night to be shown in the studio. Of course, they put President Vukic and his family in place of the people in the original photo. Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens, this is an original photograph and I ask you to zoom in and bring the citizens of the Republic of Serbia closer. As we can all very well see the lady here, better known in the people as Marinika Tepic, the lady who had been wearing coke in Morović, was probably seeing all kinds of drugs, probably from her own desire or perhaps from the use of psychoactive substances, Mr. Dragan Šolak, one of the biggest tycoons in Serbia's history, one of the best partners and best friends of Mr. Dragan Dilas, you all recognize. This is a team of people who have been destroying Serbia for decades. This is a team of people who took money from you, citizens of Serbia. Dragan Gilas has taken 619m euros from you. We all know very well how many miles of new highways, how many new hospitals, new schools and everything. Serbian citizens have shown in previous elections that Alexander Vukic is given maximum support. Two million Serbian citizens voted for a better future for all our children. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u883	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are going to the hearing after the reports. According to my records, there are two registered speakers. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u884	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to comment or refer to the proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in interparliamentary institutions. I think I just heard the view that it was already agreed and that it is the right of every parliamentary group to delegate its representatives. I would agree with that in principle, but under certain conditions, which is that some written and unwritten criteria are necessarily respected. Of course, when I say unwritten to take care of the overall reputation of parliament. I believe that the largest parliamentary group and the party that is dominantly participating in power has the greatest responsibility for the citizens. In fact, citizens only see it when they observe power very often or when they talk about power, and some other smaller coalition partners are not seen in front of the public, but from this one here, from some other acts I see that some criteria are not respected by my view of the proposal. I am not for MPs who are not active and who do not attend meetings of the National Assembly to be constantly proposed and proposed to some important delegations. Let's just say, Mr. Bayatovic, except once, I didn't see it at the National Assembly sessions. I think he was late when the president of the National Assembly was elected, and he didn't take part in the vote, not even for the president of the National Assembly, and now I see he's in the Parliamentary delegation for the ODKB. I don't know why. Does anyone want to make the impression that the Russians can't live without Bajatovic or that simply anything about Russia and relations with the Russians must also have a component called the director of "Srbiagas", Mr. Bajatovic? I don't get it. It's completely unclear to me that someone who's not actively being plus and delegated. As for another delegation, let's say, one of the vice-presidents of parliament Stefan Krkobibic is very rarely present at parliament meetings. His place must be up there, working presidency. I also see that he is part of a delegation, and we know that there are also some related links that are now not needed to be explained in particular. All what some other smaller coalition partners do is publicly comment and attribute, somehow negatively underlines to the Serbian advanced party who essentially behaves most correctly in all of this and whose delegation, i.e. whose positioning here is the least objection. When it comes to, say, the composition of a delegation in the NATO Assembly, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am against the NATO lobbyists leading the delegation. Whatever channel I turn on to change, the man who was proposed as head of the delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly performs as NATO spokeswoman. I've asked myself many times, is he our representative there or is he their representative here with us? It is simply that the amount of passion that is spoken of, not only that Serbia should join NATO, I have nothing against it, because everyone has the right to make their arguments, including him, and everyone else has the right to discuss it, but I am against the fact that other countries and other peoples are constantly insulting us in the media to show loyalty and loyalty to the NATO Pact. Then, by definition, such people are proposed to run parliamentary delegations in that part. I have not heard that the head of the delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly apologized to the Russian Federation for a series of insults both brought to the expense of President Putin and Russia, on those days and at the time of July of the incidents in Serbia. I haven't heard anyone apologize to Russia for that, and I don't know who anyone meant when they said that he and she, Russia, were a little nerd on the world's political scene. I'm sorry, as a citizen of Serbia who has some special, and I guess most of us have sympathy for Russia and the Russian people, that offends. Then we see that someone like that, I suppose by some hereditary right, is still a member of that delegation, is in that place. Also, a well-respected professor, I imagine, was respected in his profession, was the same night the incidents in Belgrade came out, so he went on TV and said Russia was behind it. Is that a recommendation for the NATO Parliamentary Delegation? The only positive part of the delegation I have noticed is Vladimir Djukanovic. This gives me confidence that many things will be under control in that delegation, that this delegation makes sense despite these humane solutions that I simply do not like. So there are repetitions, you also have some other people from the SPS parliamentary group, but also some others whose names are repeated as the chairman of the Assembly Committees, and then as members and deputies of members of these delegations. There are 250 MPs here, and I don't think it was necessary for some people to appear in multiple places, in multiple functions and thus accumulate functions. There is the impression that there are no other quality ones, but, well, that this set is one narrower, smaller, which is only measured to be in some places. This is my personal position, not agreed with anyone within the SNS parliamentary group. It's just, as someone who thinks the way I think about it, a large number of our citizens, even most of them think like that, I had a need to take this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u885	Thank you. That's who says there's no opposition in the assembly. I'm kidding, of course. Since I am the promoter of this act that you have spoken of, let me just say that I have received a harmonised proposal that has been agreed upon by all MPs. Accordingly, I did not insist at all on personal issues, nor on the issue of mutual agreement that would belong to the parliamentary group. The practice has been agreed earlier to be negotiated by parliamentary groups and to propose it to me, and I formally suggest it. I'm talking about the composition of delegations in international organisations. In that sense, I am not getting into it, nor is it my right to interfere with it. Of course, fully respecting what you said and the right to have an opinion on the proposal, I just wanted to draw your attention. On what basis are you answering? (Snezana Paunovic: The Socialist Party of Serbia is mentioned. Here you are, as deputy head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u886	I thank you, Chairman. I'll try to explain, even though you said the key thing. On the composition of delegations, the heads of parliament's groups reached an agreement and there were always constructive arrangements in practice. But for the sake of the public, I will point out once again, Dusan Bajatovic, a colleague who has been mentioned as someone who has not been present or whose colleague has not seen, is positive for the coronary virus and for this reason you have not seen him at the last two sessions, which does not mean that he will not be at the next session. What is important to say is that it is an unimpaired right of parliamentary groups to choose among themselves their representatives in delegations. In that sense, as much as we have sympathy or no sympathy for any of us, including Bajatovic, you will allow the Socialists the right to delegate in the way they estimate it to be the smartest. It is very important to point out that this Parliament, you have done well, Mr President, but there are still oppositions, but it is pointless to comment on people in the way a colleague tried to do it. It is even more pointless if we are aware that, and we have, again, I stress, the heads of parliament have discussed each member of the delegation that has proposed and agreed and the number according to how much the parliamentary group has received the mandate and respected each other in the sense that they believe that the assessment of the heads of parliamentary groups and parliamentary groups is the most targeted in any of the international delegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u887	Thank you. Since Mr Bandjur mentioned not only the SPS parliamentary group, but he mentioned several personal solutions from different parliamentary groups, it is clear that the proposal is, so I would essentially not want to open up any more replicas on this subject now, only if you agree to move on to the next debaters or if you want to deal with replications. Since Mr Jovanovic answered, although Mr Jovanovic is not only aware of whether he is an authorised representative. Since you're not authorized, you don't have the right to reply, because you're not personally mentioned. I'm sorry. It's about PUPS, I guess now it's about the criticism that's been made. (Alexander Jovanovic: It is not a criticism. I need 30 seconds to say something. But you have no basis, you are not mentioned personally, and you are not authorized in the name of the group. I'd suggest we move on. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u888	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. In the Assembly here we represent the United Peasant Party, and otherwise I was elected on the list "Alexandra Vukica – For Our Children", where we are together with my colleagues in the same Parliament club and we will work together in the interests of all Serbian citizens, anywhere to live, whether in Srlig, whether in Gadjin Han, in any other municipality. By the way, I reported on this agenda for delegations, for committees, I can say that in the previous period I was a member of the PABSEK Parliamentary Delegation, where on behalf of our delegation he was the head and now Mr Becic, with whom we were really in every place, at all times speaking best and thinking best about our country Serbia and we wanted to show our country to Serbia in the best way. All these meetings discussed the problem, the co-operation, the solving of the problems that are current in that part of the world. I can say that at these meetings, I've always talked about the problems and the co-operation and the development of agriculture, the trade in agriculture, the products, everything that needs to be done. I think it is very important here that all these people who are now proposed by our heads of Parliament, that these people be elected, that we work together in the interests of all citizens, to spread, to hear about our Serbia, because our country Serbia is the most beautiful and best country in the world, and that is why I think it's good that we work here in the interest of everyone, and when we go out of our country where we have these meetings, we have to show here at best how it works for our country. It is not good for any moment for members of the delegation who were once elected, who were here in the Assembly and represented our country in the worst way, there have been examples where it was of interest for Serbia to be as weak as possible to be stronger. Therefore, I think it is good to invite all MPs here from this place, because I am sure that we will do so in the next period. We're not going to let those negative things move here from the Assembly to a world where we represent our country. Our country Serbia is appreciated, respected, respected and respected in the best way, and that is what you can see. As far as these committees are concerned, I think it's the right of every party, every MP's club to change and appoint board members. Otherwise, I am in the Committee on Agriculture together with Marijana Risticevic, who is currently having problems with the crown, I want him to recover very quickly, because Marijan Risticevic, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, is one of the few who really stands for agriculture with all his heart, for the village, in the same way I do. I think it's good that our committees are much more active because of the crown situation, and now we don't have the opportunity to do what we did before. I think it's good that at all times we MPs are on the ground and we're talking to our people, we're making arrangements and we're bringing these problems here. In previous years, I have always, in every place and here in the Assembly, talked about those problems that concern our small communities, small municipalities, rural populations, agriculture, life in the country, and now we finally have a government that also has a Ministry of the Village in its composition. We now have other ministries -- for demographics, for the fight against the white plague. We have a number of things we haven't had yet, and I expect that we will have the opportunity to change things for the better, because only by investing in the village, by investing in agriculture, by helping young people living in the country, by supporting women in the country. So, these are all the elements that we're going to use in the next period, when we're dealing with the crown, when we're dealing with this severe pandemic that's really in every place touching every man, each of us might have been overrun by either one of his or one of his neighbors, so it's really a very difficult situation. Our workers in health homes, doctors, nurses, the medical staff are really fighting at all times, at every place, for every life. We need to have understanding of this difficult situation, we need to have understanding for those people who are in medical institutions, we need to talk to them in a way that they are the most burdened. By the way, the big problem is about the birds. I hope that we, as a country, manage to fight each other, expect a very fast vaccination. Maybe what I'm saying right now has nothing to do with this point I'm talking about, but the subject is very important. Parliamentary delegations, in all these delegations, are talking about the problem of the hovids, the committees are talking, so once again here I call on all our people to respect the measures of our crisis headquarters, to respect the distance, to wear masks and thus to protect ourselves and our loved ones. Otherwise, another great support for our people working in health care facilities. From this place I would also like to congratulate the selection of directors of the Clinical Centre in Nis, congratulating Professor Dr Zoran Perisic of the election, in the most difficult situation, but he is the right man in the right place. Once again, honourable fellow MPs, I, as an MP, will support all these proposals. I'm always thinking with my head, but I support those things I said during the election campaign and now after the election, so I'm gonna watch us handle it the best way. Support for the village, support for women in the country, children in the country, support for small areas, support for southeast Serbia, and thus Serbia will move forward. Once again, thank you all and I expect maximum support and support from all of us who will be in delegations and committees, in the interest of our country of Serbia, in the interest of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u889	I thank the People's MP, Miletic. As far as I can see, there are no more sign-up lists of MPs. Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? (No) I am concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. Moving to the next point. You have received a proposal for a decision on selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups who did not do so to apply for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision to elect the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Does National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u890	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of Mr Dacic's Assembly, you sent a letter to the parliamentary groups on November 12th to propose candidates for selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the candidate has been proposed by the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children". No other parliamentary group had a proposal for a candidate and a session of the Committee was held on November 23rd and we sent a proposal to the National Assembly for consideration. And I repeat this in the tide, because I believe that I am obliged to protect the integrity of the National Assembly as a national MP when I see that lies have come out in public that in a very perfiduous way want to endanger that integrity. Namely, "Open Parliament" as an organisation or as a project, which says it is involved in monitoring the work of the National Assembly has brought forth a number of lies concerning the election of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Of course, the Open Parliament statement was broadcast by TV N1 immediately without checking. This way I would like to invite them to get better acquainted with the laws, with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and with the procedures being conducted in the National Assembly, instead of giving a flat-rate assessment of the procedures being conducted here, because you know it is not good to immediately attack the procedures being carried out in the National Assembly because it includes certain consequences. The first consequence that could have happened is that they remain uninformed, remain in that ignorance, but well that's their shame, but what else is happening is to deceive the public and deceive the citizens of Serbia, I believe that I am obliged, as a MP and as president of the Committee who has conducted a certain procedure to protect the citizens of Serbia from such things, as far as the candidates are concerned, I believe that they will be discussed today. Also, I would like to say that we should bear in mind and act on the proposal of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", Ms. Branko Jankovic in the previous term. So we have witnessed dozens of organised events that have discussed improving equality and actually ways to combat discrimination. What is particularly important to me, as an MP coming from Nis, is that the work of the institution was directed to local communities. We had a insistence on culture and education, we had timely reactions to discrimination, etc., so I believe that the proposal sent by the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – To our children" is of quality. On the other hand, the candidacy has received support from dozens of different organisations, different spectrum. So these are associations that gather pensioners, Roma. We have national organisations for rare diseases, a national organisation of persons with disabilities in Serbia, the Association of Business Women of Serbia, the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities of Work of Serbia, therefore, organisations also dealing with the protection of vulnerable groups of people and we must bear in mind that they all cover hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In all of this, I believe that this proposal, which was sent by our parliamentary group, is good and good. The procedure has been implemented in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, so I would like to call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u891	Thank you. In addition to what the Committee President said, I would really like to repeat once again that everything we do here is public and transparent, so that on the National Assembly site, which is official, it can be said that the official representation of our institution is immediately announced when the session will be held and what is the agenda. No intransparency, to use that word that's been quite popular in the last 20 years, that no intransparency has been in this choice. I also want to welcome the candidate who has now arrived, which means that she has been proposed, and the trustee so far, with her not having the right to discuss, so that we understand her position, she can only be present until she's elected. Since we opened the debate, we are going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Maria Yevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u892	Thank you. Dear President, Mrs Jankovic, it is my pleasure to speak to you today in front of the parliamentary group about your reelection and when we talk about equality, it is always somehow in our focus of gender equality, and I think that it is the most public-accompanied and spoken of most. For JS, all forms of equality are important and equally significant. I think there's been a lot of work done over the past few years on that one. We can cite this high home for one of the good examples, and if we were to return only a few years back, for example in 2012, when there were 81 MPs here, today there are 99 of us, and this particular data has been ranked by Serbia in the 22nd place of 190 countries by the number of MPs in parliament. The number of seats belonging to women is growing with an election cycle. When we look at 1990 when only 1.3% of women have been elected, we already have 21.6% in 2008, and after 2019, after changing the electoral law when women are guaranteed 40% on the parliamentary lists, we can now praise this constituent National Assembly where we have 99 MPs. In the previous period, we have shown that we are not only a number or a percentage but each of us, by our own work, has contributed to women being more visible not only in politics but in all spheres of life and that their voice and needs are heard and that concrete legislation and various activities improve the position of women in Serbia. We are one of the few countries that has introduced and responsible budgeting and are thus recognised in the world as an example of good practice. We have also contributed a great deal through the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network to ensure that gender equality is an issue that will involve all institutions. I want to take the opportunity to praise the work of your office and your work, Mrs. Jankovic, in the previous period, I hope that this will be the case for the future, where you have responded to every call from the Women's Parliamentary Network, you have supported our every action and activity. Great progress has also been made when we talk about equality, especially in the field of improving women's positions in Serbia, and most of all in terms of the legislative and strategic framework. You have recognised the importance of involving women in socio-political life and have sent in your previous engagement a series of recommendations for achieving equality and in order to involve women in the political and public life of cities and municipalities. Following the activities of many local self-governments in the last period, it is seen that they have seriously approached these proposals and I hope that, in the coming period, they will see concrete results of these measures. We certainly shouldn't stop there. There is still a lot of work ahead of us, especially at local level and the application of strategic policies from the Republic to the local region, as well as the adoption of a Law on Gender Equality, which will certainly improve not only the position of women, but also their equal participation in all areas of social life. Just to fence myself, I am not an advocate of women getting a job or a function just because they are women, but because by their work, experience and knowledge they deserve it and they must not be denied it, because women form the basis of a modern society, or a country, and I see Serbia just as such. It should be pointed out that Serbia is the only non-EU country with an equality index and it places Serbia 22nd in the common list of European countries. Serbia has achieved the most in the field of women's involvement in political life, but economic equality remains one of the biggest problems, i.e. that women are less paid than men for the same job. Unequal income between women and men is still a great stumbling block not only in our home, but in the world. I would like to set an example of Sweden where women earn 5% less than men, while in Great Britain, that percentage is 8%, and if those incomes were evened, the global economy could be richer by about $160 billion. I wouldn't want to make a conclusion, he's making himself, which is that giving women space leads to a richer society. It also encouraged the global report on gender equality for the past year, which pointed to narrowing the gender gap and reducing gender inequality. That data is different from country to country. Iceland is a country that has managed to remove 86% of the difference between women and men. For me, it was a surprising fact that Nicaragua and Rwanda belong to the leading group of countries where gender equality is best applied and that they have better performance than many leading European countries. I've paid a lot of attention to gender equality, but I think one of the main problems that concerns the achievement of the equality of certain social groups, I mean people with disabilities, children, older people, people who are difficult to move around, and that inequality is seen in the problem of accessibility of the facility, information, sport. This is a condition for achieving equality with other citizens and you have pointed to this kind of inequality in your previous work and in previous reports. We are witnessing that in everyday life we see the problems of people with disabilities. When I mentioned sports, and as someone who spent his whole life in sports, I want to point out that kind of discrimination. I think she's here, maybe even the most pronounced. We know that sport affects not only physical strength but also psychic strength. We know how important sports is. I always look forward to and support the participation of our athletes in the Paralympic Games, because I know how much effort and work is needed to prepare and participate in a competition. As a result, their results are even more valuable and significant. I would like to commend the Ministry of Sports, which in the previous period is working on the equality and equality of all athletes. The same are rewarded medals that conquer our paralympics as other athletes. We should work on equality when we talk about school sports, enable, or work to make sport equally available from the first school days to our children. When we talk about inclusion, it doesn't just mean being in class, but it needs to be allowed for kids to do sports and to be able to approach gyms physically. It's a big problem that children who are in the inclusive follow-up meet and I think it's very important for them because they will learn to cope with all the challenges of life, because they will have built a competitive, or sports spirit. As a society, we have to work to make people with disabilities feel equal and equal members of the community, and I think we're mature enough, but when we read your latest report, I'm afraid we still have to work to raise awareness of the population and improve people with disabilities. Their will and I can freely say their life struggle to be equal members of the community to all of us should be an incentive to work on a society with equal and equal opportunities for all. As the Trustee, you have just been in your work, and you have met with the largest number of complaints concerning equality, which are filed on the basis of disability, and you are constantly through your work showing how important it is to reduce this equality, when we talk about disability. I hope that in your future work, and seeing how much Serbia has worked to improve the situation and reduce discrimination of people with disabilities, that number of complaints will be lower. Unique Serbia will always support ideas and projects that will bring equality to persons with disabilities, general equality in all segments of society. Also, for Unique Serbia, the position of every man is important, and that is why I want to point to discrimination based on age. I am very surprised as a man by the fact that most of the complaints apply to persons between 50 and 65 years of age, and these are the most sensitive categories of society, because there is a major violation of equality in the field of work and employment. The biggest problem arises in employment, because for years they are not attractive and future employers. We must not ignore them and leave them alone. I would like to commend your initiative to amend and supplement the Social Protection Act, which applied to easier conditions for achieving the rights of old citizens to material support, as well as the recommendations of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, which relate to better and better quality social and health protection for our older citizens. I have briefly presented everything that you have met in your previous work. I believe that you will be re-elected as Commissioner for Gender Equality, that with the same enthusiasm that you will work to improve equality, that you will have less to do, which is the most important thing, but personally, as a woman, I hope that we will not need an electoral law in the future to be equal with our colleagues in the hall. I am pleased to send again the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. In voting day, we will support your choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u893	Thank you. The word is by the authority of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr. Muamer Bačevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u894	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mrs Jankovic, at the beginning to resolve one dilemma and one ambiguity. Today we have before us the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality or the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, more specifically the Trustee for Gender Equality, than equality at all, which I hear very often that some are wrong or mixed or do not know or actually understand the essence of this institution. The fight against discrimination, understanding and respect for diversity are the cornerstones of human rights and freedom and every democratic society seeks to achieve these objectives. However, the fact is that discrimination and intolerance exists in every society. That is why it is our task to fight these phenomena and act by establishing a legislative framework and strengthening the independent institutions of our country. In Serbia, discrimination is a constitutional category. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees both human and minority rights, and one of these rights is also the right to equality and prohibition of discrimination on any basis, and especially on the basis of gender, race, nationality, religion and other personal properties. The first comprehensive anti-discrimination law is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. It was adopted in 2009 and provides for the establishment of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality as an independent and independent state body. Of course, in our legal system and other laws guaranteeing the right to equality, and above all the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. A number of specific laws contain provisions prohibiting discrimination in certain areas, such as the Labour Act, the Social Protection Act, the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions, the Law on Patients' Rights, etc. I have seen in parallel that the situation in other European countries and countries in the environment and an independent body, i.e. bodies for the protection of equality, has seen that most developed democratic countries, where their form is not always the same. There are commissions somewhere, there are parliamentary commissioners somewhere, there are special ombudsmen or the form of a special parliamentary committee. Of course, there are a number of documents, above all, the European Commission's decision. Then, it has a general recommendation number 2 from the 1997 European Commission on the fight against racism and intolerance of the Council of Europe, members of the Council of Europe have been suggested that institutions special bodies to combat racism and discrimination at the state level. In June 2018, the European Commission adopted a recommendation on standards for equality bodies to ensure the independence and efficiency of national bodies for equality. I want to say that there are a number of documents, a European Charter, a UN Charter and a number of legal bases for the formation of such a single body, which also highlights the importance for every democratic society, as well as independent institutions as these do in the developed countries of Europe. They're called different, we'll call it another time, but I think we found one of the most appropriate forms and the most appropriate form by giving this 2009 law really special attention and drawing this institution, its importance and its role in modern society. I must further state that by unanimous decision of the Assembly of the European Network of Bodies for Equality of ECVINET in 17.11.2010, we are the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality of the Republic of Serbia becoming a full member of this highly respected organisation. By performing the control role of the National Assembly and its working bodies, they achieve significant co-operation with the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Regular annual reports of the Commissioner, as well as specific reports containing certain findings and recommendations, show us in which areas we should work to further improve the law and apply adopted laws. As a result, the exchange of experiences and knowledge about the occurrences of human rights violations was a topic of numerous activities both of the National Assembly and of its working bodies, in particular the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. The issues discussed concerned different sensitive groups, such as improving the situation of Roma and Roma women, protecting persons with disabilities, improving gender equality, improving the situation of older people, etc. One of the most difficult consequences of gender discrimination is violence against women. So I would remind myself that just yesterday, a worldwide campaign began 16 days of activists against violence against women who are being marked every year, and on November 25th, it is International Day against Violence Against Women. We have taken significant steps to prevent violence against women by adopting the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence and amendments to our Criminal Code. The competent ministries pay particular attention to this issue, primarily to the Ministry of the Interior, but also to bodies such as prosecutors, social work centres, health institutions, etc. However, there is much waiting for us in the coming period, primarily in order to further comply with international acts in this area, especially the Istanbul Convention. It is a Council of Europe convention to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. Unfortunately, in Serbia and Serbia as well as in other countries, we have not achieved what our ambition is, and this is a zero tolerance to violence against women and therefore this should continue to be our priority. I believe that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, but also the newly formed Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, will pay greater attention to this issue and that we will come to the best legal solutions with joint activities. We are expected to be amended and complemented by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. It's a really important job, a very important law that awaits us in the coming period. We have taken this obligation in the EU accession process, and in accordance with the Action Plan for Chapter 23 – the judiciary and fundamental rights. You know that chapters 23 and 24 are under special screening, that the first ones open and the last ones close. I will say that they are the corners of our European integration and something that will be under special glass. Their goal is to continue to strengthen trustees' institutions, I stress that once again. So, strengthening the institution of the Trustee, its capacities and responsibilities. Also, we are expected to adopt a new law on gender equality. I believe that Mrs Jankovic, at the place of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, will contribute to the effective application of all regulations and that our citizens feel the effects of their application. I believe that Mrs Jankovic, at the place of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, will contribute to the effective application of all regulations and that our citizens feel the effects of their application. Mrs Brankica Jovanovic, Jankovic, I apologized, and during her previous term at the head of the trustee institution, worked very hard to make this institution visible and the activities of the trustees contributed to the progress in strengthening awareness that all people are equal and that discrimination is forbidden. I am sure that in the next term this practice will be continued and I announce that my parliamentary group, or SDPS Rasim Ljajic, will be pleased to vote in favour of your election, of course I, as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee you submit to annual reports, will support your choice as Commissioner for Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u895	Thank you. The word has been given by the SPS parliamentary group president, Mr. Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u896	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Presidency, Mrs Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course our support as a parliamentary group is not being questioned. Of course, in the voting day, we will support the proposal for a candidate for the Committee for Protection and Gender Equality. I'll say the reasons why. A colleague who is chairman of the Committee spoke in the opening statement. So the procedures are fully respected. My colleague Bačevac spoke about the essence and one broader context of consideration, in fact, what the trustee meant to protect equality. What I want to point out at the outset is one quote that I found on your site, which reads: “I am deeply aware that when we talk about equality, we really need to think about freedom, about the truth and about seeing the reality in which every individual lives among us. If we want to be a society with integrity, we have to bear in mind that measures of the integrity and dignity of society in general depend on its relationship with the individual. If we want to be the value of every community and every society our strength to look at each other openly, responsibly and respectfully is the power that we will achieve as a society in the heritage of our children. In this regard, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is the bearer of enormous responsibility in the name of society in general." This is your statement, a quote on your team's website you're working with. That's exactly what I wouldn't have anything to add. Equality and freedom, the place for every man in our society is our fundamental principles. Discrimination is an inequality and we will certainly fight it as a society with, hopefully, the Trustee for Equality and Protection of Equality, together in the next period of time. However, today's debate is certainly an opportunity for us to talk about this subject in a slightly different context, to first talk about the situation in this area of social life in Serbia, to talk about the role of this independent body and the effects of your actions as Commissioners from the moment you are elected to this day, and hopefully in some future period of time, that is to say, the goals that we need together with you to achieve and implement in the next period of time. Of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as well as the law which the colleague mentioned a little while ago, which is the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, defined that all enjoy equal protection, regardless of personal differences on any basis. But, you know, every society has its specifics, every society is kind of dynamic and, unfortunately, there are often different forms of discrimination. That is why the law and institute of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality has, I would say, a wide range of powers and whose essential role is protection and preventive, but I would add that it is a very important segment of your action to prevent discrimination, which as a primary but long-term measure always gives the best outcomes and the best results. In every society, even in ours, the most powerful question when we talk about equality is gender equality. I mean equality between men and women, especially when it comes to employment, progress in business, social and political engagement. Here, of course, I mean all sorts of social struggles against discrimination against women, violence against women, against family and any other kind of violence. counterpart Maria mentioned one important thing, and it concerns parliament, regarding the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. She spoke globally, I suppose, thinking about parliaments in the world, but I want to express my personal satisfaction, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today is one of five parliaments in Europe by the number of members of the better sex. As a man, I'll admit it's very important, because women are more often than us and braver, more visprest and wiser, and more powerful. This is not only the case with parliament, but also with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it seems to me that half of the responsible functions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are being performed precisely by members of the more beautiful sex. I think it's a big step in democratic terms and I think it's all leading to something that needs to be our common goal, and we're going to have stronger, braver, stronger, but also more beautiful Serbia. What I also want to talk about today is Parliament's attitude towards independent bodies. By the way, a little while when I was talking about members of the more beautiful sex, I have to go back to that, members of the more beautiful sex in parliament, it's my pleasure to be the first among the equal in the parliamentary club to count 50% of the beautiful sex. We in the SPS are always proud to point out that we are the first political option on Serbia's political scene, with all due respect to others, which is one of the most responsible functions, which is Belgrade Mayor, who has just proposed a woman. It was Slobodanka Gruden. What I wanted to say below is Parliament's relationship to the work of independent bodies. It's forgotten, it seems to me very often, and that's where I want to do the digression and comparison from a previous period and the previous convocation, you should always affirm what was good in the previous time period, but you need to learn from what was bad, and there's a lot of bad things that have just been done by one part of the opposition. That's why I want to talk about Parliament's relationship to the work of independent bodies first. It forgets here and forgets one essential thing during this period, we are MPs, legitimately elected representatives of citizens, someone who has received the trust and mandate of citizens to do one responsible and serious job, and it is up to us above all to help independent bodies, to strengthen and strengthen independent bodies, not to push independent bodies into the political ring, because they are not political actors. Our job is to support independent bodies, to work according to the law, not to interpret arbitraryly, individual laws, as it was in the previous meeting, at the moment when it was appropriate and how it was appropriate and to force independent bodies to do the same, because it is neither fair nor correct, nor fair, it is not the role of Parliamentarians. When it comes to the other side about the relationship of independent bodies to parliament, we, Mrs Jankovic, absolutely do not care whether you belong to a political party or not. It doesn't matter to us. It is very important for us that you are the work for which you have taken responsibility and responsible and serious and dedicated and that the results are behind you. I personally had the opportunity to co-operate with you and while you were doing the State Department's work, for my pleasure, and I had the opportunity to participate with you on round tables during the period when you took the job of the Trustee and I can safely say that the results of your work are visible. What is important is that, as an independent body, you have had a responsible relationship with parliament, according to the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I bringing this up? You've always been prepared to give answers to questions asked by MPs, to file reports, and we've had, say, not so long ago, an opportunity to have a Protector of citizens, I think, who was also elected here in parliament by MPs, he was more concerned with politics instead of his work. Parliamentarians and our MPs, to put it this way, respected so much that he did not allow us to come to committee meetings, nor to answer the questions that MPs are asking at committee meetings, and they are related to the work report. He appeared in parliament at the moment, in the assembly hall when he started a political campaign. So we are grateful to you first and foremost for the responsible relationship you have with Parliament and we are convinced that you will keep this relationship in the next period of time. I think it's a key point when in any context we're talking about this topic in today's debate of decency. I'm talking about the need, first of all, to get out of public discourse, everything that's negative so that we don't have violence, to continue to go the way we want, which is to become a decent state in which we can communicate politely and civilisedly, and this ruling coalition is, I'm going to remind both you and the public and colleagues, in the previous time period of work, and not in words, not flossules, that it cares about jurisdiction, but also to the same extent that it respects the principle of responsibility. So, it was never run away from responsibility, it wasn't a mistake, it wasn't a lie, and that's what politeness is. Responsible to carry out the work for which you have taken responsibility, but also to be responsible for your mistakes, to have responsibility for what has been done. What we have done together during the previous period of time, according to us, is a major advance in Serbian politics in which for years, absolutely no one has ever been guilty of anything, and that is only proof of confirmation and an indication that we are becoming a decent and responsible society. We should not only be party representatives and representatives of parliamentary groups. We need as MPs to set an example for the whole society. I understand, I don't really understand, but I understand what happened in the previous period of time, and when it comes to what I said was a bad experience, and that all of this needs to be learned because the lack of political power and influence has led to the most primitive behavior, violent and violent behaviour and in parliament, but also outside parliament by one part of the opposition. It is up to a vocabulary that has long gone beyond the political frameworks and then raised one key question. We were just talking about members of a nicer sex who are doing a responsible job. Journalists are also doing one extremely responsible and serious job, especially today in a period of time when all information for Serbian citizens is of paramount importance and of exceptional importance. Should we say, "Pinka" journalists worry about their safety after what happened in front of Pink TV? I'll remind you, supporters of one piece, call, the leader of the opposition, they physically attacked journalists, and then, at a press conference, they said very openly that, I'll paraphrasise – when we come to power, although very hard, we'll shut down your television, actually – your television won't exist. Otherwise, their courage is mainly through Twitter or Facebook politics, through shameful messages sent to journalists, but also by prime ministers, who are also addressed to other representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the most shameful, unscrupulous and for every conviction. Then, you know, follow that period of political marketing, followed by kids, followed by tears, part of a political campaign, forgetting the essential thing, which is the cause. So they're dealing with the consequences, they're trying to profit politically, but they're forgetting what's causing it. Politicians are expected solutions. When you enter politics, you don't ask your children if you're going to enter politics or not, but you make that decision on your own. Citizens expect solutions from politicians, not pity. If you wanted to show that you were different from that part of the opposition there, then you should have done something concrete in time. I'm saying this on purpose, because it's about the subject, it's extremely about the subject. So you could show that you were different and that you were, like, so-called. The leader of the self-proclaimed opposition, call your fellowman and say, the least you can do is to apologize to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you physically came across her, and it's a lady. The least you can do is to apologize to the journalists "Pinka" or to apologize to those tortured pensioners you've recorded here and tell them all over the period when the Crisis Headquarters has taken rigorous measures, and you've violated those rigid measures and sat before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you'd done that, maybe someone would have believed you today. Since you're not, then it's all political marketing and political fog. Mrs. Jankovic, I just want to say one last thing. I know this may not be popular, but I just have to say it. In 2016, you were declared the largest homophobia by some population. Why did I say this? A meeting was held in parliament a few days ago, a colleague, the committee you chair, followed by a press conference and announced that a legislative proposal would arrive in parliament. You know, democracy can never be the imposition of the will of a minority over most. It's not democracy. And the reason is the continuation of the European path, right, fellow Serbia. We are for European integration and we believe that we need to implement European standards to be an orderly society, but many things on the path of European integration we do precisely for ourselves, not for Europe, because of generations that will come, because of our children, to have a normally regulated and decent state. So I think that at a time when we have five to six thousand birds a day, but even if we don't have a covid, we have a situation where in the year, because of the age structure of the population, a bigger city disappears, I don't think there's room for us to talk about and start this kind of initiative and this kind of topic. And I ask you to respond in an appropriate way, because a little bit of an hour I said – democracy can never be the imposition of the will of a minority over most, because then it would be discrimination for us who think differently. It's about the same-sex marriage law. I hope there's a chance and we can talk about it. In the end, since the time has run out, I thank my colleague Orlic for extending 11 seconds, you will certainly have our support in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u897	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I think it is common knowledge that we are more than tolerated when it comes to the rights of the Members of the People to declare what they consider to be important and we are so to all. The word has an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", deputy president, Mrs Sandra Bozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear People's MPs, a respected candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I leave with my explanation of the Commissioner's election proposal, I would just like one small digression, if you'll allow me. My colleague Milicevic said a lot before me, and I am extremely pleased that both the other parliamentary groups and the authorised representatives have actually managed to recognize what SNS is already in response to our colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, as chairman of the Committee, and said that you have actually been running with your qualities and your results in the work, because you are indeed in the past five years and how they have and they are tangible. But when we talk about discrimination, when we talk about equality, my colleagues who spoke before me are right, and who say that it's always somehow related to gender equality, and there's a story we're used to. But, I beg you here on behalf of all the ladies, we who take great care of this subject, pay attention to what we say, how we express ourselves and try to be gender sensitive in that sense which would be appropriate in our language, not to say please – members of a more beautiful sex. Because, ladies of the fairer or uglier, we are neither beautiful nor less beautiful here, but we are here because we have certain qualities that we have qualified for on certain lists, on which our fellow MPs are also. It wasn't meant to be, I know it very well. I particularly appreciate my colleague Milicevic who really only wanted to give up and confess in one way and simply show perhaps de facto what is true, but when you use a language that, in fact, especially in such topics must be suitable for gender-sensitive categories, indeed, you better make mistakes sometime rather than use a word that is not suitable. But, well, it's a little depression, so Mr. Milicevic won't mind me, as much as I haven't. So, I say Mrs. Zaric Kovacevic, as chairman of the board, really said everything that qualified you during the previous period of your work as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. It's an extraordinary honor and pleasure to have you again, because I've really been up close, dealing with the topics in the work of your institution, and I've really had the opportunity to co-operate with you and at the level of local self-government, and I've had the opportunity here in Parliament to read your work reports. So I see that there really is someone in front of us who really stands up and I can tell this story of equality freely, but you really have a part-round work that is extremely sensitive and where you have to perceive different needs, multiple marginalized sometimes, in the society of groups, and in that sense you have to be very careful. I know it's not easy when you're an independent body that can only react based only on recommendations, but what you're doing right now, and maybe your work evaluates is a percentage high level of recommendations that actually end up being adopted. So it seems to me that you found here, however, a way to get to the bottom of your work and I think that's what really is basic and qualified you. For the sake of citizens, we have different trustees in our administration's system, so here we often see the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I just want to say that your work and the institutions have been defined by law since 2009. You've been established as an incoherent, independent, independent body. That is how you act under the Constitution and the law of Serbia. What is the essence of your institution's work is exactly the protection of minority and human rights, and that is certainly the greatest part of the work in which you perceive your actions. There are two reasons why it's really one good-looking moment, I can say freely, that today we're talking about selecting a trustee. Yesterday we marked, colleagues talked about it, and I am glad that fellow MPs also spoke of it, on November 25th as the day on which we, as part of the United Nations, made a commitment to mark ourselves as the International Day for the Prevention of Violence against Women. I'm kind of trying to point out this time and maybe we can start some kind of initiative in international organisations at some point. It may make sense to someone, as much as it makes sense to me, but, well, at some of the next moments when you have the opportunity to be here in front of the MPs, I would ask you simply to consider the next possibility. So when we talk about violence against women, and we try so hard not to put women in that one, I'd say, part that still refers to women as objects. It's something we're trying to really and in this native sensitive language to always avoid, but in law, we have this word: "prevention of violence against women", where we really put women in place and put them in place again. It seems to me that there are certain expressions that would make this essence of the law, of course, if there is an opportunity to improve it, of course we will work on it and on our legislation we have done a lot of things, that I am not going back to all of it now, we could really stay here all day, and that's good, because we are really not dealing with violence against women on November 25th in the context of 16 days of activistism alone, but 365 days a year, and that is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia that came out of the obligation that it feels as a society that is certainly and politically, precisely because here in the National Assembly today, 40% of women, said really what they think. Certainly, within these 16 days of activists, we have an obligation to talk about how we will fight to make women feel safer in society today, in which way we will prevent femicide, because really zero tolerance to violence is what is necessary as a mandatory norm in society and nothing less. What we have to work on as a society to get to this zero tolerance is the economic empowerment of women, and before that, of course, political empowerment to actually give the greatest number of women a vote. In that name, I must also thank the great support not only of the SNS, but through the SNS, perhaps all the initial drivers, President of Serbia Alexander Vukic, who has indeed recognised in his personal efforts that it is necessary for women's voice in Serbia to be heard loudly. We're in it, I think, have done it. No matter what equality says about talking about a percentage of 50 to 50, because it's mathematically correct and true, I can say that today we feel far more equal than it was in the years behind us, and there's no excuse why it hasn't happened before. That is why, I say once again, I thank you, and on behalf of my fellow Members from the parliamentary group, on behalf of all the colleagues who have been given the opportunity to choose in this parliament the day we chose the new Government of the Republic of Serbia from these places here 40% of women have chosen 50% of women in the Serbian Government. It's really one big shift we've made as a society. We have politically strengthened women, but we have not strengthened them so that we as women would now fight for other women. We will, of course, that's the goal we're seeking, but the whole society, the whole community, really that awareness that we have to have about political participation of women in politics isn't just talking about us, we're not fighting here for ourselves, we're fighting for all women in Serbia, especially those who are multiplely discriminated against in different ways. We fight for women in the country, we fight for women who are disabled, we fight for every woman in Serbia. That is the essence of what our political action is and our role here in the benches of our highest legislative body in the state. So that's our role in society. Not to choose ourselves and fight among ourselves, but to fight for all the women who chose us and for those who didn't, because that's the point. I would also like to talk to you today, because, I say, we have talked a lot about the subject of women in politics and in economic empowerment of women and in the coming days as the Women's Parliamentary Network, which yesterday and symbolically officialized its existence within this mandate, we will certainly discuss it at different forums, we will try to make this topic live 365 days a year, but I am also glad that we are actually here today and we are talking about the subject of selecting trustees for another reason. I would like to know what it is, given that the Trustee and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all other laws, each in their own way in their work, are dealing with the protection of minority and human rights, the question I want to ask here today is – what about the human rights of the president of the state, Alexander Vukic? It may be unusual for you because I'm going to start this part of the exhibition with one picture and one question for you and for the general public. Is it possible, here, for colleagues in the O.R. and the people next to the small screens that are following us today in the transmission is known who is in this picture? If it can be increased, I'd be grateful. I believe you don't know. I can keep this picture up here all day without you knowing who's in the picture. Maybe it'll be clearer this way. Again, I don't think the general public will be clear about who this man is, because you don't see this man in the media, or in the newspapers, or in any debates here or in the general public. It's about Gojk Gilas, brother of Dragan Gilas. Yeah, now, let's say, I take it and give it to you, and I don't think it's necessary, I think you all know what Andrei Wolfie looks like. You only know for a reason why the brother is the president of Serbia. You see, the tycoon brothers are not spoken of. The tycoon brothers who are even bigger tycoons are not spoken of, but that's why they're talking about the president's brother, which is why they're unfounded tycoonically speaking about him in tycoon manners. How many times have you heard that Andrej Vukic owns restaurants, bakeries, land in Vojvodina? How many times have they denied themselves that Andrej Vukic has none of that? They denied themselves, we weren't even needed here or anyone. They denied themselves. But the brother of Dragan Gilas is not spoken of. Is that a forbidden topic? Why are they talking about Alexander Wolfie's children? Again, I am sure the whole public knows very clearly what the children of the president of Serbia are called. Do you know what my children are called? Do you know what the children of Alexander Martinovic are called? Do you know what the children of Dragan Gilas are called? You don't know, I'm sure you don't know, but you certainly know what the children of Alexander Vukic are called, because of Danil, Milic and Vukan's constant writing, he keeps talking about them by the same ones who guard his children, whose children are more valuable than the children of the president of Serbia. Well, that's not how it can be. That's why I'm glad we're talking today about the protection of all human rights and through your institution and I'm really asking you to make this kind of threat that we've heard today, and you've heard Mr. Milenko Jovanov who's perfectly explained the whole correlation of the things we're used to. It is a disaster if we allow society in Serbia to get used to the children of the president of Serbia, but not only the president of Serbia, but any child of a political actor is threatening to be the subject of monstrous statements. I only have part of it here. Believe me, it's very hard for me to read this. I will read just a few, to remind the Serbian public of everything they have spoken and spoken and what they have established as a normality in Serbia, where no one is responding anymore and thinks he is responding, when he threatens Danil Vukic, Milica Vukic and Vukan Vukic, who is three years old, so however old they are. "The wolf, Satan, your brigades of communal police spill out to the people of strawberries," "Scotts disintegrated, while the pig Danillo is being drugged, ruined," "so do you ever think about Danil the pig, the bitch Milica and the dog Vukan." There's a lot more here, this is absolutely just what's been pulled out of a variety of Twitter warrants in the last few days. When you look at all these statements, when you collect all of this into one thing, one thing you have to notice, you can't not notice, which is that they all support very clearly, these are not citizens who have no opinion and are apolitical, they very clearly support one political story, one political doctrine. What Srdjan Nogo – Dragan Gilas thinks, and that is 100% certain, because we have convinced ourselves, these are all hordes of his supporters who, behind these statements, share their own political ideas about many things and don't need much sense to realize that in fact all these people are in the service of Dragan Gilas and that every time someone threatens the children of Alexander Vukic, behind that stands Dragan Gilas, no one else, and then some fascist freak Nogo who just conveys the information further. This is not Serbia in which we want to raise our children, it is not Serbia in which we want to talk about equality, because above all there is no equality here, because it seems that neither the president of Serbia nor his children have fundamental human rights. And I ask – who is there to protect their human rights? Who's there to protect his father when they attack his daughter, threaten to rape her? Where are the state authorities supposed to react to this? This way I appeal once again that Srdjan Noga's statements should not be passed just like that. I'm asking all the authorities to respond. He posed a series of threats, not only to the president and his children, unfortunately, extended it to the entire Vukic family. There's always talk of a stork and a freak and they're going to crush everything they can and we're all going over it. And you're right, colleague Jovanovic, who remembered to talk about Chaba Der here? And it wasn't Chaba Der I came to it, he didn't offer himself money, absolutely certainly, offered him someone else, got a warrant from someone else. What if Chaba Der stayed free? What kind of script would you be looking at here today? And why do we always agree to create an atmosphere of lynch? We're not in the Middle Ages, we're not even returning it. We build advanced, healthy and strong Serbia and on that path one man leads us, we follow. We're very clearly following everything he's managed to run, after so many years, and it's taken decades. It took decades after what they left behind all those who are trying their political inferiority today to replace by attacking the president's children, because they know for sure that the president will not go out and deal with Srdjan Nogo. Well, they won't, but we're all here for sure to do it and do it every day and every time that happens. Let's get back to Gok Gilas. I'm not just gonna get over it today. Since we know what kind of brother the tycoon is, Dragan Gilas, then it is not surprising that this very other brother who the public knows nothing about, because the SNS has never dealt with its non-insanes in the way that Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas and the rest of the tycoon's bulument deals with us, through our children, through our relatives, through our loved ones, because everyone is the most vulnerable precisely when we talk about those we love, about their relatives and about their children. We do not know that Gojko Gilas has management rights in four companies in Belgrade, that he owns the company "Comodos Corporation", registered in the US state of Delaware. Interestingly, it is precisely the fictitious addresses of Delaware that register companies of foreign citizens whose sole aim is to launder money and, look now, this is now the special interest, avoiding tax payments in countries where the owners come from. If we are talking about tax avoidance, there is no more massive example than Dragan Gilas and his media who also today do not pay taxes in Serbia and are probably worried about a Luxembourg tax. What else does Gojko Gilas own? Here, I've come up with some data and just so you can simply see that we in the country have obviously some extremely capable man who is unknown to us, an extremely successful man who deals with unknown economic activities, an unknown public, and imagine, he is the brother of Dragan Gilas, one of the, I can say freely, the leader of the opposition in Serbia. So Gojko Gilas owns, now get ready because the list is really long, please listen to me, to be patient: apartment in Simino street of 91 m square, apartment in Gramšijevo, apartment in Dusan Radović, apartment in Belgrade of 91 m square, apartment in Borislav Pekić, apartment in Požarevac, apartment in Master Jovanovo, apartment in Dimitri Tucović, five apartments in the building in Velisava Vujović Street, apartment in 127 square meters each, two apartments in Velisava Vujović, seven garages, apartment in the Master of Jevremo, apartment in Cornelia Stanković, apartment in Svetozar Marković, apartment in Ževrem Grujic of 160 square meters, and this I didn't mention how many squares, but everything is almost 80 and over 150 square, two garages in St. This is a list of only those properties owned by Brother Dragan Gilas, and it is not excluded that this list is not final. Now just imagine that all that Gojko Gilas has is combined with what Dragan Gilas has, and then multiply with the possibility that they lied about having more. So, remember this face once again, so I pray that the other CINS media, BIRNs, KRIKs, deal with this property map, which is how it's such a successful businessman that we in Serbia don't know, we haven't even heard of him, because he's skillfully hiding behind his brother's lap, came up with the opportunity to make this property map and own it. Who's Gojko Gilas? For Dragan Gilas we've determined who he is, we wouldn't find it strange if the splinter didn't fall far from the log. I wish you many successes in the future work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The Serbian Progressive Party, the MP group "Alexander Vukic – To Our Children" will have your choice, as it has suggested, to support, because we know that in the future you will be dealing with things that are truly crucial from your work cycle for this kind of question, sensitive issues that I have mentioned for a moment, and it concerns precisely basic human rights and discrimination. I hope that we will get to that zero point where there will be no discrimination, no violation of basic human rights and zero tolerance of violence against women will indeed come as a society soon, and that we will climb up to one of the tops of the world's lists, because as far as we know, we have reached number one in all other areas of development of society and life in a relatively short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u899	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children”. We're going to work on the list of signed up for the word. There is a word, People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u900	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected Commissioners for Gender Equality Mrs Jankovic, I would like to thank you for being present today personally, this is a proof of respect for Parliament, for us MPs and for all citizens and citizens, because today we are talking about selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, it is a very important institution. I want to look at the procedure at the beginning of the speech, because we have heard certain criticisms, everyone has the right to not know and I think that it is good because only the public explained that the very function you have performed in the previous term is also being run by the public and that I hope that you will receive support from the discussion, we hear that because you have done your job really well and I really have no doubt and that you have no doubt against the candidates that by your work so far, by working in the previous term, you have earned support. So the procedure is very clear. All those who didn't respect her, what to do, what to do, what there is. For some of the next competition mandates could have been learned. Democracy, democratic processes are something we have to work on every day. We are one young democracy and discrimination is, unfortunately, what is present in every community, in every society. We see that countries that claim to be the cradle of modern democracy are facing racial unrest, like in the United States, France, Germany. The EU countries face really big challenges now in the 21st century. The proof that we really want to establish fundamental democracy is a legislative framework based on which there is an institution that you represent. It is evidence that we want to make Serbia essentially democratic society and country. What's the key problem, as I see it, is the law enforcement problem. I think it's something that you and your associates, your institutions should pay attention in the next term and that all of us and Parliament and the Government and other factors in society have a lot to do. Why will we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, vote for your election, because you have brought your institution closer to the local communities. It is very important for me, as a MP from the interior, that institutions, independent institutions, government institutions, ministries, be close and their work be transparent and close to the man who lives inside in this case in the Sandzak municipalities. I want to point out the really immeasurable contribution you've made in collaboration with minority communities. In this case with representatives of the Bosniak people. Your visit to the New Market has been very noticeable. The lecture you gave at International University is still being convinced today and you sent a strong message to the Bosniak community, but also to representatives of all other minority communities. I will remind you that according to the latest census, one third of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia are representatives of minority communities. What's good about the election and what we pointed out and what I pointed out in my discussions about choosing a new government is that we have greater participation in women. However, what I pointed out then is that a third of the minority communities have no representatives in this government and that this is something we must work on in the future. What I also expect from you and your institutions is that we have a certain problem regarding discrimination in the employment of representatives of minority communities in state institutions and their representation in the police, in the prosecution, in courts, in public enterprises, such as Telecom, EPS and others. Then I really expect that in one constructive conversation between us MPs, your institutions with the representatives of the government, to make an appeal, recommendations, to talk, because the goal of all of us here, all of us social factors, is to see all citizens and citizens in Serbia, Serbia as their own country. It's our mission, and we have to work on it permanently. In the day for the vote, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, academician Muamer Zukorlic, will vote for your election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u901	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u902	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Jankovic, the Serbian parliament today has chosen the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for the third time. Without any modesty, I must point out that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is like a relative institution. In ten years of existence, apart from becoming visible and recognizable, she has taken great and important steps towards greater tolerance and equality and to protect all of our citizens and citizens from discrimination. As chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, gender equality in the previous term, I had the opportunity to reassure the work and commitment of both the institutions and Branko Jankovic through a number of different activities with the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and the former and hopefully to the future Trustee, as well as all its associates in improving the equality of all social groups, as well as all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. During the previous period, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality worked through a number of different activities to protect against discrimination. I have participated in a number of meetings and followed research into the attitude towards discrimination that this independent body conducts year after year and the fact that discrimination exists, but that it still decreases and what is more important, it better understands as a phenomenon that is forbidden by law. No matter how much discrimination is still present in our society, these efforts deserve commendation. I think a lot of things have been done to improve the situation of people with disabilities, and above all, I think about the accessibility of objects, and it needs to be done even more intensively and even more. And, I mean not only physical barriers, but other obstacles faced by people with disabilities and I expect and I believe that the trustee will work on it in the next period. In co-operation with the Commissioner, the Committee also organised sessions and public hearings dedicated to the position of our oldest citizens on October 1st of the International Day of the Old, which pointed to the importance of intergenerational solidarity and the integration of young and old. I must point out this time that these are just some of the values it advocates and at the top of the Social Democratic Party's list of priorities. Despite all the efforts of the facts, we must continue to work on the promotion and position of our old citizens and citizens, because a significant number of older people continue to face various problems, such as problems related to services in their own home, availability and quality of health services, lack of help in moving and helping in the house, and in particular we must pay attention to all of this now in terms of the pandemic of the coronary virus. There are also problems that we as a society must get in the way, such as violence, abuse, and neglect. The problems of older people are specific, very often stemming from their health and family relationships and therefore require special access and attention. I am convinced that the Assembly Committee, led by my colleague, Muamer Bačevac and future Commissioner Branko Jankovic, will pay considerable attention to both these issues and not only them, because attention, human relationship and understanding is what we can and must give to our elders, parents, friends, neighbors. It is something that does not require special financial resources and the involvement of institutions but depends on ourselves and requires only a little time and goodwill. I'd also like to refer to a few more concrete activities. As a value of our attention, I think we need to draw up a special report from the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was delivered to us less than a year ago, and in which a good analysis is presented, but also in order to improve the state of the labour and employment market. In this connection, the Commissioner offered a good manual called the "Equality Code" for employers in order to affect equal treatment in employment. All of this, of course, is now subject to even greater sensitivity and attention in terms of the pandemic itself, and even greater obligations of the future trustee. When it comes to the position of women, she would commend the reaction of Commissioner Branko Jankovic every time women from political and public life were exposed to insults and humiliations, even through hate speech and not only of women, but also of condemnations and threats from the president of the Republic and his family, insults on a national basis, peer violence, etc. I must note that, along with my fellow Members of Parliament from the Women's Parliamentary Network, I have carefully looked at the analysis of women's representation at the bar, whose results have been discussed here in Parliament. Out of nearly 200 municipalities and towns in Serbia, just three to four years ago only 12 women were headed by them. I think to all of us, both colleagues and colleagues, it was a motive to change that picture. Our current parliament and the current composition of the government, as well as the representation of women in local self-government, show that. Although Serbian society is more ready today to accept diversity, there is still much to be done and there are different and great challenges that we must overcome as a society. Dear People's MPs and MPs, finally to conclude, the continuity that we will show by selecting Branko Jankovic as the Trustees in a clear way will show how important equality is to this House and to us as MPs and MPs as one of the foundations of every democratic society and the condition of achieving all other human rights. I expect that the Commissioner will keep a promise made here in the National Assembly a year ago, when the report was adopted, that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality as an independent competent state institution for the protection of the rights of equality will continue his work to protect against discrimination against each individual and social group. Mrs. Jankovic, looking at your work and the work of your team over the past five years, trusting that you will continue to be professionally, committed and securely run by this institution, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, will support your choice as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u903	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The word has a folk letter from Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u904	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected Mrs Jankovic, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, as a woman, as a mother, as a member of parliament today, I feel the need to make my contribution to this debate when we choose the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. At the beginning of this exhibition, I simply cannot without reacting to everything that is happening not only today, not only yesterday, but all previous years, where the target is the legitimately elected president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. I really can't help but notice all this and I can't help but judge in the strictest way all of it, especially the statements I read in the paper this morning, which is where the target is clearly drawn not only to the president of the Republic, but also to his family, the sacred, his children, his parents. How long will all the institutions in charge keep quiet about these statements of failed politicians? I can safely tell the failed politicians because the citizens clearly told them no, that they did not want them and that they clearly sent them to a political dump. How long is this Nogo going to call on the Link of the President of the Republic? That gentleman proved himself in the previous council here. He attacked all of us, turned his hands. His colleague, Bosko Obradovic, then attacked our president of the parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic. How long will the competent institutions close their eyes to all this and keep quiet? I really can't understand that. From this place as a woman, as a mother, as a national MP, I call for them to react once already and that we no longer read or watch such things. Let them answer before the law, as any other would answer. What I would like to stress is that as a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network, from the moment I became a Member, more specifically since 2014, I am really proud of all the results that my colleagues and I have achieved together. You know for a fact that the Women's Parliamentary Network was founded in 2013, at the initiative of then-President of Mr Stefanovic's Assembly and everything we've done and advocated in the previous period, has produced results. At the head of the country with the prime minister, with the President of the Republic, from whom we had exceptional support, we also adopted important laws concerning gender equality, the protection of women and all in the family at all, and we have passed a law concerning the election of MPs where women are present and now there are minority over 40%, both in local parliaments and at the republical level. It's all the merits of one man, we have to agree, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and indeed that man doesn't deserve such failed politicians, like Nog and others, to call him and put a target on him and his children every day. What I want to point out is that I'm really proud when I saw you again as a candidate for the seat of the Trustee for the Protection of Gender Equality, because I remember the sessions when we adopted your proposal five years ago, when it's precisely those who are still trying to disprove today and to reduce your role in everything you've done in the past five years, they're against you today, who were against you being in that place five years ago, but what I'm looking forward to is that we took the right step, that we supported you, that you justified this trust by actually doing your job responsibly and safely. I'm really glad we're going to vote today on your choice as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. There's something else I'd like to add. When it comes to equality and protection from discrimination, it is a very sensitive subject and this time I would like to remind all of our citizens and all the public once again that we must all fight equally and that this topic should be a subject that will unite us all and bring us together, a topic that is sacred, and certainly not a topic where politics would be vulgarized or possibly to form some small political point, because when it comes to violence against women and discrimination, we really need to awaken the awareness of all our citizens and citizens once again that if there is violence, that it must be reported. We must not be blind, we must close our eyes to this problem, because it is something that must bear its consequences. Every bully has to answer to the law. Since we are now in the campaign "16 days of activistism against violence against women", we must not let ourselves talk about this problem in just 16 days. That has to be mentioned all the time. Simply, no woman, no creature, must be the victim of any kind of violence. I also have to add that, as I come from Kruševac, from Rasin County, that we really have no problem with gender equality and any kind of gender discrimination because of the six municipalities in Rasin County, there are five women, strong women who lead with responsibility and security and municipalities, but also the parliamentary benches of five candidates from Rasin County, four women and one man are in this meeting, and in previous meetings almost only women were present, so, as far as we are concerned, I would like the other municipalities to have such a picture and to have their representatives on both local and republican level. I certainly hope that you will do your job the way you did, but as my colleague Christmas pointed out, I invite you to act and to protect our president, that his human rights, above all, because as a mother I know how to feel, I believe that when his mother reads any sign and contents where her son is being targeted, where her grandkids are being targeted, she cannot possibly remain indifferent. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to support your choice. Long live Serbia and lived our President Aleksandar Vukic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u905	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u906	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, distinguished counterparts, Mrs Jankovic, respected citizens, the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed candidate, Mrs Jankovic, as Commissioner for Equality. We believe that this independent body has carried out intensive action in the field of indication of discrimination, recognition and prevention of discrimination. The work of this body was not only visible in the field of protection of citizens against discrimination but also in a number of activities concerning the prevention of discrimination. Of course, I rely on the information given in the latest report that you delivered to the National Assembly as Commissioner. With regard to the area of discrimination, it is first and foremost the area of work and employment with a third of the total complaints brought to the Commissioner by the citizens. When it comes to discrimination, the most complaints were filed on the basis of disability. Persons with disabilities face a number of problems in all aspects of their lives, but the Commissioners most often spoke about access to public areas. We believe that as a society, we must strengthen the degree of inclusiveness. Persons with disabilities must have access to all surfaces, facilities. They need to be accessible not only where they have to, but where they want to go. We from the JS are sure that their problems that the trustee institution recognized and articulated state will put into its priorities. I would take the opportunity to say that on the JS initiative, all public institutions in Jagodina have ramps for people with disabilities. The Jagodina City Assembly also supports financial associations of people with disabilities at the JS initiative and there are many examples of good practices in Serbia at local level, various cities and municipalities that are very responsible for this problem. It should also be mentioned the very positive action of the Belgrade City Housing Company, which in September invited all Belgraders whose buildings are in their system to report their housing units and receive a free ramp for disabled people. I can't help but mention people with total or partial hearing damage, as well as blind and weak eyes. The report of the Trustee to the National Assembly for 2019 states, in the light of the suggestion, that the TV programme on public services is adapted to deaf and deafness very limited, and that the audio descriptive content for the blind is almost gone. What is noticeable and commendable in your work is the maintenance of training and workshops for certain civil servants, various seminars and training for women at the middle and higher management level, which are organized by you. I would single out an information that is not encouraging, which has just been leaked in the latest report, which is the fact that more men than women have appeared to the Trustees of Equality in 2019. What does that information tell us? That men are still bolder, more aware of their rights and that they are more often users of social services. Men don't keep their mouths shut, and women in large numbers hide and justify violence. As a result of violence in Serbia's family-partner relationship, 21 women died in 2020 alone. It is very important for us to constantly point to this problem and encourage women not to suffer violence and report it. We from JS will support Mrs Jankovic's choice for the Trustee of Equality and we want this body to act as a good example. Citizens, especially those of sensitive groups, should be further strengthened in order to be able to exercise their rights and on the other hand to enable their visibility, i.e. to identify them in the process of creating and implementing public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u907	Thank you, colleague Alexic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u908	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Mrs Jankovic, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, is ahead of us today to elect a candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. First of all, I want to say that for one completely transparent, in accordance with the law and all the legal procedures, this proposal came today for a public debate here at the National Assembly. Ignorance does not include the possibility to place false information. False information through the media, which is primarily Gilas and Solak's media, in the most harshest way possible they want to manipulate the public. That is why I need to say that a completely legal procedure has been respected, as the colleague of the Committee president said, and that a transparent proposal for selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality today is on the agenda. First of all, I want to say that Serbia is a country that is defined for building a society based on respect for human rights and protecting every citizen from any kind of discrimination. The equality of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is the basis for our country's progress and development, for further strengthening of democratic capacities, and on that road we have already stepped deeply, especially for the past 10 years. The institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality with its dedicated and responsible work has done enough to make Serbia move forward in this direction. This year, on 27 May 2020, it marked 10 years of your institution's existence, and before that in 2009, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which is actually the basis for some of your actions, was passed. But I must also say that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia strictly prohibits any kind of discrimination and points out that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are exactly equal before the Constitution and the law of this country. What I'm saying is that in the past five years, since 2015, and how you've worked to strengthen your institution through increased visibility, but of course through cooperation with institutions. Here, first of all, I want to point out with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have worked and collaborated with the competent committees of the Republic of Serbia whose jurisdiction is the subject of both human and minority rights, and you have also participated in many public hearings that are also organised in the home of the National Assembly. With a lot of respect and trust, you have treated the MPs, and what I must point out is that your reports on work in a thorough, comprehensive way have shown all your activities, in detail, to the extent that even individual examples have been shown that citizens have addressed you by seeking the protection of their rights against discrimination. Never did the answer from your office leave – with respect, we are not in charge. You are always in line, ultimately, and with the law that you are obliged to respect and comply with the law and to act, you have always gone to the legal advice and instruction of that citizen who thinks that someone of his right to proceed and whom you should address if you are not able, or if you are not competent as an institution. I would also like to commend your great co-operation with the Women's Parliamentary Network, which has already been carried out by my colleagues, and I would also like to commend and co-operate with local self-government precisely on strengthening the capacity of those most vulnerable and most vulnerable to whom assistance and support are most often needed and who, in fact, most often address you for help. I would also like to point out that, in order to encourage and support local self-government for the development of social protection services in the community on 16 November, you have been to mark the International Day of Tolerance, to municipalities that have created the same conditions for all to grant recognitions. Among these municipalities are the municipality of Priboj where I come from, because this municipality has developed social protection services at local level, nine, for the most sensitive and most vulnerable, for the elderly, for the disabled, for the victims of domestic violence, for the personal followers, for the disabled, for the personal assistants, for the young people who are alone, there is support, a housing with support. The issue of gender equality has made great progress over the last 10 years, especially in the last election cycle, thanks to efforts, above all, by our President Alexander Vukic. A large number of local self-governments headed by the president's municipalities are women. counterpart Barisic said that in Rasinski County, out of the six municipalities in five municipalities, the president is women who are worthy, diligent and responsible for their work will surely work for the benefit of the citizens of these municipalities. I'm going to quote the words of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who said when you want to know something, ask a man when you want to do something, ask your wife. In that sense, I would stress that for the first time in Serbia's history, the two mayors are women and this is the mayor of Nis and the mayor of Uzic. That's never happened before. I would also like to emphasise your co-operation with RIK in 2018, and as regards accessibility in the election seats of people with disabilities. In this regard, RIK acted on your proposal, made a decision to assess accessibility, but not only that, they formed a Protocol on Co-operation with civil society organisations dealing with the protection of persons with disabilities. During this time, in these five years, you have shown professionalism, diligence, commitment and work absolutely in accordance with the laws. We expect you to carry out your work professionally and responsibly in the coming period and react to every insult, every threat, every child, whether they are children of ordinary citizens, whether they are children of the President of the Republic of Serbia, because for every parent, and also for the President of the Republic of Serbia, children are the greatest treasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u909	Thank you, colleagues. According to statements, the next speaker is Samira Cosovic's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u910	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Jankovic, we have before us the choice of Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I want to start by saying that equality is like the notion that every year, gender, gender, religion, ethnicity or any other mark has equal rights. The preface of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights contains the words – recognition of innate dignity, equality and inalienable rights of all members of the human community are the foundations of freedom, justice and peace in the world. One of the priorities of the Republic of Serbia is respect, protection and improvement of human rights, both national and international, in line with the UN Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant international instruments in this area. In accordance with this and under the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in 2009, an independent and special state body – Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was formed. The tasks of this body are to prevent all aspects, forms and cases of discrimination, to protect the equality of natural and legal persons in all areas of social relations. I think you, Mrs Jankovic, have done your job extremely well in the past and have therefore been proposed for a new term of office. As someone who has dealt with issues of gender equality in the local community from which I come, I know that much has been done to raise awareness of women's rights to political participation and the importance of their greater participation in decision-making places, to encourage the work of local mechanisms to establish gender equality to actively work on gender issues, to establish co-operation between national and local authorities and civil society organisations in dealing with issues that are of interest to women. I hope you'll be so successful in the next term. First of all, I wish you as little complaints as possible, as little work as possible. We from the SDPS fight for respect and promotion of human rights are of crucial importance and vital value in political action and we will support your candidacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u911	Thank you. National MP Vuk Mircetic is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u912	Dear President-in-Office, respected Mrs Jankovic, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, reported today as part of the agenda relating to the choice of Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The very institution of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality is very important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, primarily because it concerns the protection of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, it refers to vulnerable and marginalised groups. This institution itself aims to improve equality and reduce discrimination. Care for the most vulnerable and marginalised categories in the Republic of Serbia is exactly what the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children is for. The candidate for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality is Branko Jankovic, who is with us today. It can be seen from her biography that there is one expert, an expert in the protection not only of gender equality, as previous colleagues have spoken, but of equality at all because there is discrimination not only on the basis of gender, but also on the basis of an age group, based on education, etc. What is very important and should be pointed out is that we on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives talked to the candidate and we found that it meets absolutely all the criteria, and since the candidate was in the previous period doing the same position in the report on work, which we also read, we could see that those successes were achieved, those objectives which have been outlined, but this is not what is most important here, because for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia it is extremely important to mention that the proposal for Brankica Jankovic to be elected Commissioner for the Protection of Equality came and from the NGO, civil society, first of all I would mention the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia which sent a letter to the National Assembly where she supported this proposal. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all those who do not know it, this organisation is not itself an organisation but is gathering interests, more specifically representing the interests of about 700,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They're people with disabilities, they're their representatives, their legal representatives, and their families. This network, this big network makes 15 alliances and about 450, if not more, local organizations. That's very important. At the address of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, there was also a letter of support from 40 other NGOs, therefore civil sector organisations, who had the opportunity in the previous period to co-operate with Mrs Jankovic, but also, on the other hand, to monitor her work. What they pointed out, I will quote it – that Branko Jankovic contributed to positive changes in Serbia, equality and a reduction of discrimination. These 40 organisations are not only Belgrade organisations, they are organisations from nearly 20 cities across the Republic of Serbia. In view of the importance of this letter, I hope that you will allow me, the chairman, to read the list of all NGOs that supported, because I believe this is extremely important: Association of Citizens "The Power of Friendship of Amit", Forum for Ethnic Relations, Women's Initiative from Triestenik, Serbian Association for Alzheimer's Disease, Centre for Independent Life of Persons with Disabilities from Triestenik, Association of Roma Associations of West Serbia and Scapac, Women's Initiative "Koloseum", Association "Evgenija" by Ježevica near Čača, Centre for Development of Involved Society, Association of Citizens "Kokor" from the Association of the Association of the Ugrač, Red Cross Svilajnac, Association of Women "Laris", Association of Women "Evgenija" from Priboj, Centre for the Special Education of the Association of the United States of Croatians, Association of the United States, Red Cross-Corship of the Union of the Union of Women, Association of the European Union of the Union of the European Union for the European Union for the Europeans, Association of the European Union, Associations, Association of the European Union and the Union for the Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Union for the Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Council for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Council for the European Union for the European Union for the Council for the Council for the European Union for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council. We see that, I hope you won't mind me taking your time and reading the entire list of organizations that supported it, because, again, I believe that the citizens of Serbia must know, not only will we as MPs support Brankica Jankovic's election day for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, but the NGO does so. For all of this, I will vote in favour of this proposal, support it, and I also call on all fellow Members and fellow MPs to vote in favour of the proposal that Branko Jankovic be elected Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u913	Thank you. There's a word from MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u914	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Mrs. Jankovic, respected fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, is an important topic – the choice of Commissioners to protect equality. I am deeply sorry that the Rules of Procedure do not allow you to say anything, because you would have something to say. I'll try to say what I suppose you'd certainly hear. You've had a difficult task in the last five years. You answered the same, and I congratulate you on that. It is my personal position first, because we have worked together on various topics and that is the basis for which, not only I, but as Parliament Group President Djordje Milicevic said, the SPS will absolutely support your choice. What's it important to say? You've been assigned to prevent all aspects and forms of all cases of discrimination. Most often we hear this gender-based discrimination, discrimination against women versus men, and practice has shown some ugly examples. I am fortunate to have among the MPs a young fellow like Dubravka King who educated me and helped me, in 2006, we had a court suit in Uzic on the grounds of discrimination, and that in the way that the defendant, according to the prosecutor's claim, set less fees per year of work for women compared to men employed in the same company and in the same places. Fortunately, as I understand it, there were no such cases, the prosecutors received a verdict and that was something we had in Serbia in 2006. Thank God, we don't have that in 2020. The number of women represented in Serbia's political life has been discussed here and we are fortunate to inherit the decision to be 40% of women in parliament, not only in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but in all parliaments and local self-government and the province, however, it is a great task, you have helped to realize and thank you for that, but it seems to me an even bigger task, first of all, in front of you. What we've been providing quotas is success, but we need to ensure that we don't only choose a woman because she's a woman, but that we choose her because she has equal or greater quality than a man suggested for the same places. We haven't developed that consciousness as a society yet, individually, yes. It is not only where women experience discrimination political life, neither in Serbia nor in the world. There is domestic violence and we are in a week of activists, and I spoke of it yesterday as one of the members of the Women's Parliamentary Network of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. There's a mobbing, there's blackmail, there's demeanor, there's prevention to progress and there's a series of other problems, but not to sound like they could accuse me of some ultra feminism, it's not always the relationship of men to women, there's that in both directions. It's true, less visible, because there are fewer women who have a chance of showing that part of their personality. Serbia as a society has a problem and the following nature, which is that we call discrimination everything we don't like, and it's the consequence of our projections, because, as I would say, we've experienced a view in the mirror one way or another, so we overestimated ourselves or underestimated ourselves, so as a consequence of one version or another, we say that we're threatened by someone else. And that's what you need to deal with, and that's what's waiting for you in the mandate that's ahead of you. I believe you'll have complaints, I hope they won't, but unfortunately, our society hasn't matured to a level that you're out of a job, no matter what I'd like to do, it would mean that we've stepped out quite seriously. What I'm also going to say is that Serbia is neither the worst on this scale nor close to the worst. What is more, atypicalally complete for Serbia, for the Western Balkans in general, under the circumstances of the way it works, is all we have done here in relation to many European countries, we can today boast the percentage of women's representation in political life. Compared to many European countries, we today can also boast about all women who have suffered violence. I'm sure we'll start talking very soon about that other direction I'm talking about, which is violence against men. Many times in communication with my colleagues I have experienced a sentence – and what about the men who suffer violence, you are silent about it? It's true, it's kind of male nature to keep it quiet. And women are silent and hard to decide to complain about any kind of violence, but it's still more difficult for men. So, first of all, we need to awaken awareness in people to recognize exactly what violence means, what it's all about, what it's all about, what it means to blackmail, what it means to abuse power in relation to who's across the street, without the difference in which half belongs. It seems to me to be the primary task ahead of all of us in the next period. We will also have a law on gender equality, if I understand the Minister for Social Dialogue very well, Mrs Comic, very quickly as the subject of this Parliament's consideration and there will be something to say. I believe and I'm sure you'll take your part. All groups at risk, to get out of this gender discrimination, are threatened in their own way and all of them should be taken care of. My colleagues spoke, I would not repeat myself, on the subject of other groups, but it is very important to say that Serbia has made a serious step in the LGBT population, which was neither easy nor generally acceptable. We've also developed consciousness about what are the problems that plague our children, the rare diseases, the diseases that we don't recognize, we don't know that there are, we're lucky we don't know anyone who's exposed to harassment as a parent or as a child, as well as peer violence that also gets some numbers that are scary. All together when we add and package at this time in 2020, a year marked, unfortunately, the coronary virus said it itself yesterday, even the profession claims that this psychic press that we are exposed to on a daily basis as a result of fear also leads to increased depression and increased anxiety, thus perhaps increasing aggression in relation to its environment for each of us individually. Dear Mrs. Jankovic, we could talk about this for a long time and have something, but it's more important than that. You're someone today who can't talk about it, but I know you're someone who's gonna work very hard, because I've been following you all along this session, every idea and every suggestion you've written down neatly, and thank you for that. Thank you for hearing the MPs who are representatives of the people, and thank you for having the awareness that what we are saying and citing as problems are the problems that we bring from our midst, and each environment is specific to itself. I believe that, in accordance with everything you've heard, you will make your own work plan, which we will absolutely have no objections to, and even less will be made to your report, which we will also consider here. I wish you good luck in your work and I really want to say that you can count on support when it comes to not only the Socialist Party of Serbia, but the complete parliament of Serbia. I can almost certainly say that at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u915	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u916	Dear Mrs Jankovic, the esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, is well known that Serbia is committed to building a society whose goal is to respect the rights of all citizens, regardless of national, religious and any other belonging. Our Constitution strictly prohibits any kind of discrimination and all citizens are absolutely equal under the law. However, in practice, as in all societies, including those most developed, we have examples of discrimination against citizens. I think you are actively working with your serious and responsible approach and work to improve equality in Serbia. I've read your report for 2019 with attention. I saw there that you have shown in a very thorough way how you are fighting discrimination, how you make recommendations to the authorities to remove discrimination against citizens. I saw that there were about 600 complaints from the citizens. Of that, over 80% according to public authorities. There are a number of areas, types of discrimination based on disability, gender, health, age, membership in political, trade union and other organisations, marital and family status, nationality, sexual orientations and other forms. However, in your report, I have not seen one target group, one group of citizens facing discrimination, and it is about expelled Serbs who have over 400,000 in Serbia. They were expelled in the 1990s from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH. More than 500,000 Serbs were expelled from Croatia, and more than 500,000 Serbs were expelled from the Federation of BiH and more than 200,000 Serbs were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. So, more than a million Serbs were expelled from the area of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. A small part has returned to the Federation and Croatia, and a part lives scattered around the world. So over 400,000 expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH live in Serbia and, of course, more than 200,000 internationally displaced people. In the past two years, over 1,000 expelled Serbs have addressed me as a national MP with a number of problems. Exactly 1058. I've been working with my associates to help them solve these problems. One of the main problems of expelled Serbs is resolving the key issue of integration, which is the issue of housing. In Serbia, 2012 began with the realization of so-called The regional housing programme, aimed at finally resolving the housing issue of all the expelled Serbs for the next five years, taking into account that these people have been living as tenants or inhumane conditions, now for 20, 27, 29 years. The institution of this activity is the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. Unfortunately, the program is implemented inadmissibly slow, sloppyly, with a number of errors. In 2009, a poll was conducted by the refugee commissioner, identifying 17,000 exiled families who reported not to have solved the housing issue. These people expected their housing issue to be resolved by 2017. In August of this year, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration came up with a statement on their site that by 2021, it would solve just over 7,000 exiled families. So, instead of solving all 17000 refugee families by 2017, now the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration says only 7,000 will be resolved by 2021. According to that statement, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration of 10,000 refugee families will not be settled on a residential basis. We have at least 2000 more, according to our data, at least 2,000 refugee families who did not apply to that record, on that poll by the Commissioner in 2009, so it is estimated that at least 12,000 refugee families are in the status of tenants or live in inhuman conditions. I sent a letter to Prime Minister Ana Brnabić on November 13th, so 10, 12 days ago, where I appealed to her and the government not to conclude in any case the implementation of the Regional Housing Programme until all refugee families were settled, or that the state would fulfill its promise to resolve the key issue of their integration. I'll give you an example of Belgrade. In Belgrade, 505 apartments were built in the previous period for refugees in Ovca and Kamendin in Zemun municipality. We now have two new competitions for 133 apartments in New Belgrade and 250 apartments for building a building in Ovca, which is, therefore, a total of 388 apartments, and has been reported in the Belgrade city's competent institution over 1,800 refugee families who have the right to live. So after the list is published, 1,500 refugee families will remain below the line. He calls me daily a large number of expelled Serbs, wanting to finally resolve his housing issue. Our assessment, in addition to those 1,500 refugee families that will remain below the line, is that at least 1,000 other refugee families in Belgrade have failed to resolve the housing issue. So Belgrade needs to build at least 2,500 more apartments for refugee families, so that the state in Belgrade respects its promise. A similar situation is in Novi Sad and a series of other local self-governments. In addition to this key issue that the state fulfils its promise, I repeat, to resolve the housing issue of all the expelled Serbs and not to complete the regional housing programme until the end of that goal, we have a number of other problems facing the population. We, for example, have over 1,000 expelled Serbs whose Commissioner for Refugees and Migration does not allow them to apply for a contest to resolve the housing issue. Why won't he let them? Because these people did not register and register and did not receive refugee status, or refugee card when it was a list of refugees in 1996. What are the reasons? One part of the people came in 1991, 1992, got a Serbian ID card, the other part was afraid to apply, the third part had family tragedies, didn't think about applying for refugee status, and now at least 1,000 refugee families have no right to apply. It is a discrimination for me, and it is unacceptable to see the formal situation now, instead of saying – if this man is expelled from Zagreb, if he is expelled from Split, from the region of Krajina, from the areas of western Ukraine, Western Herzegovina, Sarajevo, he has the right to compete and to help the state resolve the housing issue. Next thing. We have 530 refugee families and other families whose apartments were built by a donation from the Italian government, it's so-called. The SIRP programme, these apartments were built in 2008. The program made it clear that these people would get the right to buy their apartments. However, then Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic was with local governments at the time, in 2006, it was a total of seven local self-governments, Nis, Cačak, Valjevo, Kragujevac, Stara Pazova, Panchevo, where these apartments were built, the option of ransom was abolished, here, 12 full years, from 2008 to today, I am fighting alone, and these people are struggling to correct the injustices, to eliminate discrimination and to get the right to buy their housing units. I hope that soon, there have been talks in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, that soon we will have the opportunity to come to the Assembly of the Refugees Act and to bring a few amendments, i.e. to correct several major injustices by amending and supplementing the Refugees Act. One of those is the one I was talking about. Then we have another group, eighty refugee families in the city of Belgrade who use Diposa apartments. They've been living here since the early '90s, paying high rent, spending apartments. These people have also been appealing to the state for many years to enable them to buy their apartments. And that is where we hope and that is where I have asked Prime Minister Brnabic to help those 80 refugee families in Belgrade get the right to ransom and to include the rent they paid for 25, 30 years. Several thousand housing units for exiled Serbia were built in Serbia in the previous period, however, I must say that the provisions of the Refugees Act set a high price. Unfortunately, I've been going through the field, I've been going through these buildings, and my associates, a lot of these buildings and apartments have been done very badly, unqualityly. For example, the building in Belgrade, Zrenjanin, Ubb, Topoli, Rači and a series of other places, roofs leak, access to buildings left unedited, poor electrical installations, the worst-quality carpentry. I appealed to local self-government to allow these people so-called. double discount. So one discount through the Refugees Act, and another discount by local self-government at 50%. I have to give two positive examples – the municipalities of Požega and Odzak municipalities, because the main people and the two local self-governments made it possible to discount 50%, an additional discount by the Refugee Commissioner, under the Refugees Act, and these people are satisfied that they could at the right prices become owners of these apartments. I think we should think systematically, that all other expelled Serbs should be allowed, as the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia, to buy out these apartments under favourable conditions. A project was implemented in Serbia – social security for wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters by the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and the Japanese organisation JEN. In 11 municipalities a total of 318 apartments were built, there are also six municipalities where apartments were built through the so-called so-called ". National investment plan. So we have 17 local self-governments where 318 apartments were built for wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters. For more than 20 years, these families have been expecting to become owners of their apartments. But what's the problem? The problem is that the Regulation on addressing the housing needs of wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters makes it impossible. We have also appealed here, we appeal to you and Prime Minister Brnabic, to amend and supplement the Regulation on amending and supplementing the Regulation on the settlement of the housing needs of wartime wartime peoples and families of fallen fighters and to give these 318 families the right to buy out those apartments. Also, I think it is important to help a part of the exiled Serbs who have received apartments, it is 12 local self-governments, which cannot get their apartments because property issues have not been resolved. These are buildings built in Belgrade, Pozharevc, Despotovac, Leskovac, Zemun, Indjija, Stari Paz, Kragujevac, Raca, Rekovac, Majdanpek and Negotina. So people can't become apartment owners because they haven't solved property issues, they've been trying for 10, 15, 20 years to solve these issues and finally be on their own. We have a part of the exiled Serbs who got apartments through the so-called. "Social housing in protected conditions" project. These families have no right to buy apartments. These families are appealing, begging to be allowed to buy those apartments as well. Our people, as long as they're not the owners of the apartments, they still feel they're in sub-inhabitant status. I think you should meet these families, and these are the apartments that were built in Frogs 12 apartments, Little Black Six, Shabac 36, Loznica 30, Nis 16, Sombor nine, Temerin 20, Topola eight, etc. I think it would be important, and it's a kind of discrimination, to speed up the realisation of the legal housing programme, or one of its segments to speed up the publication of the list, so, when the competition is over, it's a year, two days to publish the lists that the families received, and the particular problem is when the list is published that the building takes three, four, five and more years. We have a case of Whispers, where, say, building a building of 25 apartments lasts five years. Well, imagine now the citizens who are waiting, they're on the list that they have to wait five years to move into their apartment. We have similar examples in other local self-governments. Also, exiled Serbs who have received apartments complain of a very high fee when entering into buy-in contracts. The vast majority of these people are barely putting an end to the end, fighting for everyday life, and I think we should consider that all citizens, not just exiled Serbs, come out to meet if they really determine that they have minimum or no income, and they have to pay high sales contracts fees. I would like to say one problem, the same for you in particular, I have been approached by more than a dozen citizens who, on the basis of a decision by the Commission on housing issues of the city of Belgrade, received apartments last November in a contest to address housing needs by buying and renting apartments at the Kamendin 2 location in Zemun Polje, it is 52 families. Unfortunately, these families still haven't been able to move into their apartments, it's been a full year. Meanwhile, when these families visited these apartments, the building was built, so in Kamendin 2, they found images of damage to newly built buildings and a healed environment. Many apartments are broken out of the building are brought out sanitary kitchen elements, water heaters, sinks, toilets, batteries, electrical installations are damaged. So we should see that the sooner these damages are recovered in these newly built buildings, and that these 52 families finally move into those apartments they got in November of last year. I'd like to say a few more problems besides the housing I've been talking about. We have, like, one problem, the expelled Serbs about getting citizenship. Namely, the state said whoever has refugee status will pay a small fee of 1,000 dinars for admission to Serbian citizenship. However, we have one part, I said, the exiled Serbs who did not have refugee status or their children who do not have refugee status, and they now have to pay a admission fee to Serbian citizenship of 19,000 dinars. I repeat, the vast majority of cases of hard-lived families are in a difficult economic situation and should be allowed, not only by them, to have that tax for 1,000 dinars, and not by 19,000 dinars as they now have to pay. A particular problem, and for me a special kind of discrimination, concerns those expelled Serbs against whom the Sarajevo and Zagreb judiciary conducts judicial proceedings. Now that those persons, we have a dozen cases, are applying for admission to Serbian citizenship, the Serbian Administration for Administrative Affairs has responded that they cannot be admitted to Serbian citizenship for security reasons. The Administration of Administrative Affairs takes as the basis for the fact that the ethnically motivated judiciary in Zagreb and Sarajevo is initiating investigations and bringing indictments against the exiled Serbs. I think it is an absolute discrimination that these people should be allowed to be admitted into Serbian citizenship, and then they are in court proceedings, as for all other citizens, to see if this person has committed a crime or not. So, not to condition people and reject them into Serbian citizenship. People are bitter, people fought with honor in the Republika Srpska Army, the Republika Srpska Army and the Yugoslav Army, and now our administration is refusing to join Serbian citizenship because of the criminal proceedings they have filed, I repeat, the ethnically motivated judiciary in Zagreb and Sarajevo. I think it is important for the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration to increase funds for the economic empowerment of expelled Serbs, help these people in addition to this housing integration, help them to get out of their jobs or strengthen them in the business segment and help them expand their activities and live off their work and employ other citizens. I mean, also a kind of discrimination by the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, as regards the allocation of one-time cash aid to humanitarian aid packages in medicines, etc. Namely, the Commissioner says – who has refugee status formally receives one-time assistance, heating aid, medications, another kind of humanitarian aid, and who does not have refugee status, the man refuses. Now you have cases of someone getting help, one-time cash aid or any other kind of help, and there's less need, and someone who's really having a hard time living, to whom this help would be valuable, can't get it because he's formally out of refugee status. Mrs. Jankovic, I have tried to tell you as soon as possible about the problems, so over a thousand expelled Serbs who have spoken to me in the past two years. Since my phone number is the only one available on our Alliance of Serbs from the region and published in multiple media, I have over 9,000 phone numbers in my mobile machine, I am available to citizens and together with my associates trying to help these people, to encourage competent institutions, to do their job, to make public officials professional, responsible, kind, to answer phones, not to help them establish communication. So, the appeal to you, to help within your jurisdiction, that all these questions that I've been talking about and all these problems that I've been talking about come to the agenda and that, with your support, we encourage the competent state authorities to solve these problems. I hope, again, that Prime Minister Brnabic, who received my letter ten, twelve days ago, will, therefore, also do the maximum on November 13th for these issues to come to the agenda and begin to be dealt with seriously and quality. In the end, I would like to welcome your work once again and say that I will vote in favour of your election as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u917	Thank you. The following has been reported by counterpart Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u918	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Mrs Jankovic, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is today on the agenda a very important point, and this is the choice of Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. The institution of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality during this extremely challenging period has been given more than ever because the pandemic of the Corona virus has particularly affected all marginalised groups. Since the introduction of this institution, to this day Serbia has thus promoted the position of many discriminated groups in our society. The Commissioner said an independent body did what was required of it, which is to preserve the constitutional and legal category of equality of all citizens. Strengthening the role of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality also strengthens the role of the rule of law in our society. In this way, this institution has produced significant results in our country's legal and political system in a very short time. Serbia has shown and shows by who knows which way is the country that takes care of this aspect of social life to its own legislative and institutional framework. We have laid the groundwork for improving equality, as we have laid the foundations and to combat discrimination, but we continue to face many challenges and problems leading us on that path. That is why Serbia must overcome prejudice and Serbia must be a society of equal odds for all. Tolerance and respect for marginalised groups, as you said in your report, does not constitute concessions to the expense of other citizens and citizens. This is actually an indicator of the degree of respect for the rights and equality of all of us in society, but what we need, what we have been working on and what we still have to do further is the need for preventive action, change of social consciousness in the direction of affirmation and tolerance and respect of diversity through various aspects of affirmative actions, education, positive changes and positive examples. Of course, on this very important subject, we must not ignore the role of the media. The media is a significant creator and system of social values, but also social awareness. It is therefore important that the media do not report to us stereotypely and not to be a means for individuals, but also for marginalised groups to be discriminated against, the media needs to be, in fact, a partner to institutions in protecting equality and preventing discrimination in all areas of society. I will refer to improved gender equality and representation in the Republic authorities. It's something we've had a chance to see at a very high level lately. If we look at parliament for the first time, we have the opportunity to see more than 40% of women in this house, for the first time we have the opportunity to see 50% of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that is for every praise. In particular, the importance and necessity of strengthening the role of sensitive and marginalised groups at lower levels of government, i.e. at decentralised levels of government, should also be pointed out, in the reputation of the republican level. I think that's why authorities in local self-government should reduce prejudice and give these groups a chance in decision-making bodies. First of all, I think of a less represented sex, persons with disabilities, young people and older people, as well as national minorities or any other minority group. This is necessary in order to make them more involved in local decision-making processes and to achieve their full rights. I would especially point out your role in the process of pointing out the need to implement the role of a personal companion of disabled children, especially in local self-governments in those environments in which the role has not yet been brought to life. Given the importance of this topic and of this kind of assistance and support that means for children with disabilities, but also for their parents, we need to engage as much as possible in order to become more involved in schooling, as well as in all other aspects and activities of the local community. I will also remind you that yesterday was the International Day against Violence Against Women and that with that day, the days of activists against all forms of violence against women began. I believe that in the next term, the Commissioner will pay particular attention to this extremely important social problem that reflects on all segments of our society, starting with the family as the primary community, and through society as a whole. Any form of violence against a woman is not and must not be her personal problem. This is the problem of the whole society and therefore the fight against violence against women is and must be a fight against all of us. That fight is our duty too, and we must not give up on that obligation. Because of what I said earlier, I would like to support Mrs Branko Jankovic's choice for the Trustee and in the new mandate, given her commitment to the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u919	Thank you. Next is the National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u920	I would like to say briefly that Mrs. Brankovic's results in the previous period speak well enough. You did a great job. We also had opportunities to participate in the organisation of certain important events regarding the protection of equality, especially when it comes to the role of local self-government. You yourself answered my question on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and under what pressures you were when you always stood up for the Alexander Vukic family after the terrible threats both by representatives of individual NGOs and opposition leaders. However, what I now have to point out, and what my neighbors from Vračar and my friends asked me last night, is what appeared in the media again, unfortunately, which my dear colleagues have spoken more about in these two days, Mr. Aleksandar Martinović and Milenko Jovanovic, Sandra Christmas and others, and that is what confirms this title in today's media -- patient Srdjan Nogo draws a target on the head of Vučić's children, referred the monstrous threats to the entire president's family. By the way, who's Srdjan Nogo? It is an opposition, a recent coalition partner of Dragan Gilas, who, along with Gilas, co-organised the shameful July violent protests that again referred a heinous threat to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and his entire family. When do these threats come? They come when President Vukic declared war on the mafia and when we see the first results of the fight against the mafia and President Vukic suffers intense threats for days, and the authorities, in my opinion, do not respond adequately without talking about most media. The opposition, that is, the part of the opposition to which Đilas, Solak, Jeremic, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo and their comrades belong, nothing is sacred. They don't have anyone's children, that is, the children of President Vukic and anyone from the SNS. He's threatening three-year-old Vukan, he's threatening Milic, he's threatening Daniel. Most strongly all of us from the SNS, and I hope all MPs in this House condemn these threats, but what I do not understand is why Srdjan Nogo is protected, which is why Dragan Gilas is protected, which is why Solak is protected? Gilasu's neighbors in Vrakar, where she has one of the series of her properties, that is, today I heard his brother Gojko, it seems to me that I counted well, of these listed properties read by colleague Sandra Christmas, five are on Vracar, and who else knows how many Gilas, when his neighbors tell him "Jilas, thieves", he whines in front of the cameras, he can't stop from paying, and then most media stops at his side, and when he threatens President Vukic and his family in the worst way, most of the media is silent, and I don't talk about it, so I don't want to talk to Milenko again, how most media are silent when one who is accused of the most serious crimes, for murder, admits public that two criminal clans offered him money to liquidize our president. On your site, i.e. I read a wonderful text on discrimination on the website of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. It says that discrimination is an inequality of equal treatment, and we now have a situation when it comes to President Vukic and the protection of his family. Message on your office website – We are fighting for Serbia without discrimination, join us because together we can build a society of true equality. We SNS deputies join, but we are also looking for the protection and family of Alexander Vukic and all the families, especially to protect the children. No one from the SNS for these speakers or in any public appearance has ever compromised the safety of any political opponent without talking about children. In the end, I would like to point out what he says about what I was saying, the Criminal Code - “Who is jeopardizing the safety of a person by threatening to attack on the life or body of that person or his close person will be punished by fines or prisons for up to one year.” That's not happening in Serbia. A slightly sharper sentence is provided if the threat is addressed to a large number of people, which has caused citizens' anxiety or other serious consequences. The strictest prison sentence of six months to five years concerns the threat of the security of the president of the Republic, the MP, the Prime Minister, members of the government, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, police officers and persons performing matters of public importance in the field of information. That's where the press thinks too much. So the law speaks clearly. The law doesn't apply. Gilas - protected. Leg-protected. Bosko Obradović - protected. Why? A senior court in Belgrade sentenced one person to one year's sentence of imprisonment for threats sent to reporters of a television show, and the threat came – the first one will feel revenge. Then what punishments should these monsters who threaten the family of the President of the Republic get?? If we want, as you pointed out in earlier appearances and here my dear fellow MPs, to build a society of protection of equality, a society without discrimination where the law is respected, then, my dear friends, we must apply these laws and they must all be punished in accordance with the law for every threat addressed. That's what we as MPs have to repeat, if we have to do it every day. If these sick minds threaten each day, now in very difficult moments of Serbia, when we are fighting the crown of the virus and when we have the first serious results in the fight against the mafia in the past few months and when the minors are arrested daily by criminals, we, MPs, must say great - not discrimination and threats, especially threats to children and threats addressed to President Vukic and his family. Without President Aleksandar Vukic, who has successfully led Serbia, and before that to the government for years, we would not have all these results today, both in the fight against the mafia and in the fight for the health of citizens and for the full budgets and in the fight against the crown of the virus. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u921	Thanks, buddy. Next is the People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u922	Thank you very much. A respected candidate for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, the first sentence applies to me to the public, so I transferred to something else, and the idea of contesting, as it was disputed, was tried in fact to challenge the legitimacy of this Assembly, the government that came out of this assembly, so it was tried to challenge the legitimacy of Mrs Jankovic's election by making up some secret session, and then that there was a secret session where six cameras were held. So there were six cameras at the secret session, there were audiences, there were MPs. So, I can only wonder – what would a public session look like if this was a secret, right? That's one plus, Mrs. Jankovic, who at least has me as an MP and SNS official, because that attack that you've had from one part of the political scene tells them that your choice for some reason doesn't suit them. What is it? I don't want to go in there, but as far as I'm concerned, everything that they're attacking so hard is probably good for the state of Serbia. Because what they did when they had the opportunity to decide on both human and fundamental issues was not good for the state of Serbia and I simply don't believe that something changed in the meantime, so that they became aware and became responsible enough and able to make any good decision. As for work in the coming period, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, I have a few things to say. You've got some serious temptations ahead of you. We've heard about women being promoted, and I'm looking forward to it as a father of two girls. I want you to know, in particular, what kind of fathers have to do with their daughters and how they're experiencing them, and it's only a little bit when it comes to women's children and their male parents, as they say their future father will be called, so I'm glad about that. However, we are witnessing something else here, which is that in our society discrimination is happening on a number of levels and there is no reaction as much as I believe it should. So my question, first of all to you, is the question of courage and your determination to engage in what awaits you in the coming period. Do you have the courage to say that Alexander Vukic's brother is being discriminated against just because he's Alexander Vukic's brother, that he's being attributed to what he doesn't have, because a man lives in an apartment in New Belgrade that he's paying for a loan, and that's from those whose apartments, if I were to list, I'd probably spend the time of the parliamentary group? So we don't know about Brother Dragan Gilas, here we are, until today. We don't know Gojko Gilas has properties in hectares in downtown Belgrade. We don't know anything about it, but that's why we know about all the attacks and the charges, the false accusations for the man I met five years ago, and what's exactly the opposite of everything they represent. The opposite, the opposite. So do you have the courage to get into it or not? That's a very important question. A large number of people who perform the functions of independent bodies or in-house organs, so they don't have to be collegiate, they don't want to be resented, they don't want to go through a warm rabbit on social networks, on Twitter, in their media, to be the subject of ridicule, to be the object of attack, demeaning, etc., stay away from it. My question is, will you fight for this equality? So, I don't want us to get into a situation in the Serbian parliament that we've come to in some other areas of life, say football, so they tell us -- this championship is more regular than the previous one. The championship can be regular or irregular, it can't be regularer, because if it's more regular than the previous one, and it's irregular, so this is also irregular. Is that right? So, equality either exists or does not exist. Either we're even or we're not even. Now I ask you, shall we fight? In doing so, I am not asking you to defend the politics or president of the Republic because you support his policy. Whether you support his policy or not, I absolutely don't care. It's not a matter that you're supposed to plead and I'm not interested in, but whether you're defending the principle. Will you react in the same way when it comes to his family, when it comes to the right of every member of the SNS, who are also dragged through the mud wherever they can get them through, as some other people's children are protected? They should be protected children and every child must be protected, but they cannot be the only children without protection in this country, the only children behind whom no one will stand, the only children who are doomed to have no childhood because they are children of Alexander Vukic and because they are absolutely allowed. Speaking of human rights, do these human rights apply to everyone equally? Do we all have equal human rights or not? If we have them, then let us protect our human rights. I don't care about that story - the government has a responsibility, but I guess it has a responsibility on the other side. On the other hand, I want to know who it is and where it's coming from, if we're going to talk about those categories, even though it's a little infancy. So you can't keep quiet about things like that. Silence is not a reflection of neutrality in this situation. Silence is a reflection of the alignment with the existing state. So I ask you, are you ready to defend the principle of defending equality to survive everything that some of your colleagues in some other areas of the state administration have survived? On the other hand, we can't help but notice what we've been talking about. Someone might say here again talking about something that is not a topic or is a subject or is not strictly related to the authority of the Commissioner either one way or another. You have to understand that it hurts all of us on this side that on one side the whole country is crying, crying, having an understanding of what they say hurt them or hurt them a lot. I read yesterday, and I couldn't believe my eyes that United Group, imagine, had turned to the EU -- they were threatened here. They're threatened here? Those who function and work without respecting a single law of this country? After all, I don't know what the EU is complaining about, let them complain to Luxembourg, there they are, so let them be protected by the country of origin, the headquarters of the company and the company. So, to those taught by the various seminars of the reaction where they immediately make sacrifices, whatever it is, and when they're not the victim, what everyone reacts to, what they're having a real sacrifice, and the real victim is, and what we've been talking about these days and today, the family of Alexander Vukic. Mrs. Jankovic, the names of the children of the president of the Republic, the names of the parents of the president of the Republic are listed. And if it wasn't for the President of the Republic, it's inadmissible. So if we're even, let's be absolutely equal, not more equal than each other. I won't mind, absolutely, that first of all, to me, who, very often, can be sharper than perhaps and sometimes necessary, draw attention and teach a lesson that I've gone too far in some things, but I ask you to always and in every place towards everyone. Then you will be fully in line with what I expect of you and in accordance with what is ultimately your jurisdiction and obligation because we have been putting up with some things in our society for too long, we accept too long, this morning I talked about it, and those unfortunately become normal for us. They can't become normal, like they can't become normal and it's not normal and it's not going to be normal and we have to fight that when someone's angry, I don't know why they come home, so they're maiming their wife and children, so it can't be normal, and it can't be this verbal violence they've been having for years. Today is the theme of Nogo. Yesterday there was an anonymous tweeter who wrote, I don't know what, the other day there was a subject of a third. It can't be washed away anymore who threatens those children, who mentions them. In all that time, in peace and quiet, there's a guy there named Gojko Gilas who becomes an apartment collector, and while he's yelling at Andrei, at the militia, at Daniel, and at the time there's someone else... I don't just know why he needs such apartments. It can't be in everything at the same time, but obviously it's some different universes we live in. So, of course, I'll support your choice. I'm saying, the fact is they've jumped so much, they've rebelled so much over your choices, we're saying that this choice is good for Serbia. You'll have absolute support for all of us in being just, not being on our side, we're not looking for it, we're looking for it, we're expecting you to be just, you're going to say pop pop, Bob, and you're going to judge events the way they are, no matter what side some things aren't supposed to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u923	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. National MP Milija Miletic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u924	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, distinguished Mrs Jankovic, I would once again, since I participated in your past choice where I gave my support, and now I will say a lot of commendable things, a lot of things you did during your time as Commissioner for Gender Equality. I think this is another real solution now because the period behind us remembers, from 2008 to 2012, how respected persons of the opposite sex, from me to women, that's where I think about us men who have been in some problems. The bottom line is that we have to be more realistic because we see a shift, there's a improvement, there's a problem, all the people who are hurting all the people who have problems with someone or with someone. The most important thing is that we have to move forward. We have to think in a way that every person here can now speak for the opposite half of me, for women, for women living in the country, for women living in the village, that we have to put a much greater accent on these people, we have to provide them with much better conditions for life in every respect and in the working view and health view, social view. In every place we have to talk about these women that they live much harder, that the life of women in the country is the life of women who have working hours from morning till tomorrow, who have no chance of being treated because there is no infirmary in that village, because there is no doctor in that village, because there are no other benefits as do those who live in the city. That is why we must give maximum support to our women living in the country, in every respect. To provide them with different working conditions, I mean specifically if she's a member of the landlord if she's paying social and pension through agriculture that that woman has the right to maternity leave tomorrow, the right to be sick, that she has the right to be a woman who's in a working relationship. When I was president of the municipality from 2009 to 2012 we were then initiated as a municipality and then I was in front of the USS and we decided that for women in the country when a marriage community is formed to get 50% more income from the marriage community in the country, or greater assistance from those living in the city. I've had a warning from your colleague at the time that it's not right, that we can't separate, that some are given more and some are less, that someone has more rights. Never people living in the country and the life of the village, especially women in the country, especially children in the country, have the same opportunities and rights as those living in the city. We all try to ensure the same conditions of life, but reality is completely different. When we talk here, we hear a lot of positive things. When I was a councilman in the local parliament, I spoke, and now as an MP, I always say those things that are real. We must provide our women in the country, as I said, with different conditions when they are employed, when subsidies are given for these persons must be given greater benefits, greater privileges, greater compensation. Also, for children born in the country, we must provide them with much higher incomes, at least 50% to be more than isolating our children living in the city. That no one resents our people living in cities, I'm saying this because I know what life is like in the country. I was born in the country, I work in the country, and I feel these problems of our people. I think it is necessary in the next period, when we adopt a budget for 2021, that in that budget we have more opportunities to invest for women in the country, when they have agricultural land to be able to do their own domestic work, that she can live on it, when she has problems that she can go on sick leave, when she gives birth to children that her children have the same rights as women in the city, the right to a child's allowance. On the other hand, when they can't do it tomorrow, they have the same rights as those women living in the city, to use welfare. Or one of the important things is that people who live in the country, if they have more than 50 acres of land, they don't have the right to social assistance, while those who live in the city have 38 acres, as I hear before, some rich people who have dozens of apartments here, they can have 50 acres of land with 15 or 20 apartments and these people tomorrow have the right to social assistance, and that man in the village who has 50 acres of land has no right to social assistance. That's what I especially say about women. Therefore, we must put an apostrophe on our women in the country, to provide them with health care, social protection, so that they can provide jobs, that when they form a marriage community, they have the opportunity to get the means that they can provide themselves with certain benefits, that they can fly from livestock, vegetables, fruit growing, rural tourism or something else. It is important that there is a difference when subsidies are given, when aid is given, that people who stay in the country, who live in the country, especially young couples who want to create a marriage community, who want to have their children, be provided at least 50% more compensation than others. The women in the village who are giving birth, who are doing their job there tomorrow, need health care needs as much attention as possible and educationally, in every place, to come, to talk to them, how they can protect themselves, to see if there are any symptoms, some signs, that they can report on time. On the other hand, we need to ensure, I specifically think of the Ministry of Health, after the birds, when we solve the problem, when we get the vaccine, that the Ministry of Health is able to make local self-governments, such as the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, that in these municipalities there are opportunities to employ doctors, nurses, who will go on the ground, who will put these people's accent much higher, because, believe me, life in the country is much more difficult, because not all villages that have the same opportunities, plumbing, sewers, Internet, a grocery store, and everything else that has individual villages. From the community where I come from, it's a completely different situation. We're like the poor community, but on the other hand, we've been trying to help these people. Otherwise, in the period until 2020, the municipality of Srljig had persons, women, who led the municipality, the president of the municipality, the president of the assembly, the lawyer. The largest number of women led the municipality. Now it's crossed the city of Nis. The city of Nis has now won the mayoral office, a woman who will surely have both the opportunity and the strength to bring back Nisa's smile. Her deputy is also a woman. I'm saying this just because you put a much bigger accent on women now, that they can lead, that they do it the best way. Our Prime Minister Anna has proved to be very successful, and that is why we have given her the opportunity to continue working in the interests of the citizens. I'm putting an accent on trying to make life easier in the country than in the city. A few days ago, the President of the Assembly, Mr. Dacic, chaired the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where I also said we had to put an accent on the children in the country. A child in the country doesn't have the same conditions of life as a child in the city, and we don't see him anywhere when problems are ranked. Therefore, it would be good to place an accent on this, to provide children living in the country with the same conditions, that if there is no school department, kindergartens, to ensure that through some means, whether it is the Ministry of Family Care, whether it is the Ministry of the Village, whether there is another ministry, we now have a minister without portfolios, Mr. Tonchev, where undeveloped areas will be covered, we need to find the possibility to provide through some formal things for women and children in the country, to provide funds for married couples. Normally, there are also big problems with old people whose children have left, whose children are out of these municipalities and out of those communities, who have gone to some major centers or gone out of the country. Therefore, it is a great accent and responsibility for you, and for us, to leave a greater possibility in the next period, not just through the story, but through direct donations, because we have already formed the competent ministries that will work on it. You are a person with both responsibility and obligation, I will support you with all my heart and I am sure we will have the opportunity to solve many things. Once again, I, as an MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support you as a Trustee, because you have previously shown how to do, by having to do a little more and more seriously for children and women in the country, as well as for all people living in those rural areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u925	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u926	Dear President, Ms Jankovic, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, today's topic from the corner of citizens can be both important and less important, but from the point of view of us, MPs, I must point out that it is very important. I think the previous speakers have listed a lot of things you've done so far. I haven't had a chance to cooperate with you, for the first time I've been an MP, but given that I've been involved in politics for 12 years, I know how much you've done and what you've done, and of course I will support you as a proposal. However, what will determine my opinion on your professional work will depend on what you will take in some future steps and in the next period. The colleagues who discussed before me, in particular Mr. Mrdić and Jovanovic and colleague Sandra Christmas, listed something that I would like to discuss, but above all from the point of discrimination. As I always prepare thoroughly for the meetings of the Assembly, I was not lazy, so I went on the site, to see what you do and how you define some things, and I think my colleague Jovanovic asked a good question... (President: I would warn you – Jóvanov. I'm sorry. So, a colleague of Jovanovic has asked one key question – will you be ready in the next period to deal with the pressure that awaits you? Also, the presentation of colleague Sandra Christmas was completed about an hour or two ago, but right now, you should know that she is already the subject of physical-psychological abuse, and I don't want it to turn into physical attacks, just because she brought the truth about the brother of the richest man in this part of Europe, Dragan Gilas. So, in the next period, and I repeat, from this place, colleague Sandra Christmas will be exposed to various attacks by any Gilas media, portals, will be exposed to attacks by any tweeters, dragging her through their fungi and mud, going through a warm rabbit, just because she had the courage to say and point to everything that happens around the richest man in this part of Europe, Dragan Gilas. I ask you from this place, since I am convinced that you will be elected, to pay attention and to protect her from your place as a citizen of Serbia, above all, from the discrimination she expects in the coming period, and she has already started today. It is well on your site that the tasks of this state body are to prevent all forms and cases of discrimination, to protect the equality of natural and legal persons in all areas of social relations. In the past, I didn't follow, don't blame me, how hard you tried and fought for discrimination not to exist at all different levels. Today we are able to be together with all the colleagues sitting here being discriminated against by those people who think differently from us. They're allowed to tell us whatever comes to mind, to instruct us on any threat, to invite us to murder, lynching, hanging, however they define it in their tweets or calls, and unfortunately no one answers or takes it. My colleagues and I in the previous period, surely over the past few months, at least on a weekly level with various statements and statements, have suggested how, how and how the family of President Aleksandr Vukic is satanized. Unfortunately, it's been a day or two that forgets everything and I come into this situation that it's normal for us, which is absolutely abnormal on the other hand, that Chaba Der, or whatever that man's called, admits to the Hungarian investigative authorities that even two clans have offered him co-operation on the matter of killing President Vukic. After two days, that story went into oblivion. Then you see how much awareness in the people has come to this level that, after constant, everyday threats that come to the expense of President Alexander Vukic and his family, it becomes a daily thing and no one ever looks back on it. We can't let that happen as a society. Yesterday the video came out, I don't know when it was said, when it was recorded, because of citizens who have been contacting me since this morning. Just so you know, citizens' anxiety is on a very high level. Now I'm talking not only about the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, we're talking about citizen Alexander Vukic. I would ask everyone to put themselves in a position to hear their name and name instead of their names Alexander Vukic. His end will be very tragic. The path he took was tragic for his entire family, from Angelina, Angelka, the parents of Alexander Vukic, to Daniel, Milice and Vukan, the children of Alexander Vukic. I don't know if he's three years old. Are you people aware of the dangers, the hatred, when a child, who is not even known to be three years old, brings into the context that he will also be judged and will have a tragic end? For what? Why? What's Alexander Wolfie's father? What don't you mean, like this Alexander Wolf? I ask all the people here in the O.R., the people who look at us -- how will you feel, or how would you feel about going out on the street, having someone come up to you and mentioning the name and last name of your father, your children, and saying that they're going to experience a tragic end? Come on, guys, let's not discuss the president's institution here. Let's discuss the rights of citizens of Alexander Vukic. It will be your job, Mrs. Jankovic, in one form or another, however you want us to define it. This is directly related to your work and to what you will deal with in the next period. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality has been authorised to carry out a complaint procedure in cases of discrimination between persons or groups of persons who associate the same personal property. So this is part of your job. It also monitors the implementation of laws and regulations, initiates the adoption or amendment of regulations in order to implement and improve the protection of discrimination and gives an opinion on the provisions of the draft laws and other rules concerning the prohibition of discrimination. I can tell you from this place now that you as a trustee will have our full support, but you will also have a burden in terms of these issues. When things like this happen and your reaction is missing, be assured that I will ask you from this place why this reaction is missing. Why is it that when the text comes out about Alexander Vukic and his family, where he is directly referred to as his murder, everyone finds it normal, and no one can say that Dragan Gilas has taken 619m euros, that he is the richest man in this part of Europe and that his brother or brother, however, is a collector of apartments? So this man, his brother, is in no condition to visit all these apartments within 24 hours. Nothing can be written about them, and everything is allowed about Alexander Vukic and his family. Well, that's not Serbia we want to live in. It's not about whether it's Alexander Vukitch, let that man's name be whatever, the rights apply to everything the same. I ask you to take care of this and take care of all aspects of this discrimination, as you have successfully dealt with and discrimination about rights and ladies and different religious or racial backgrounds, however you wish to define it. This kind of vision must be introduced as something that is normal. My colleagues said it was all defined by law, and I agree. When government representatives come here, I'm going to repeat the same question, because I'm curious about when we're going to get a concrete answer and when, as a society, we're all going to get that awareness that it's not normal and you're not allowed to threaten anyone just because you disagree with them. Discrimination by definition, in some broadest definition, is a distinction and a choice of whether someone is good, desirable to society based on some differences. Now here in this definition, we all find ourselves because, well, in this room, we are discriminated against by people who don't think like me. So, I don't have the same right to feel safe on the street, to get out, just because I support SNS and Alexander Vukic, because Nogo will come and attack me or someone in my environment or my family. When I received threats I didn't pay attention to them, because, as my colleagues said, it's always the hardest thing for family and for those people who care about you, they're the hardest to go through these things and they're taking care of you. Should it be the 21st century that we live in fear and cold so we can't say what we're thinking? Well, we are convinced here that there is some kind of censorship of the media, and on their media there are pictures of President Aleksandra Vukic's son Danilo Vukic in pictures of some criminals. Well, that's how you draw his target directly, people. I don't know how anyone can calmly observe it and not react. When you put a picture of Danil Vukic in the same picture where criminals are members of different clans, what kind of message are you sending? And it's all gone, two days a lot of miracles and nothing. I think that people in our country were brought into this situation, I suggested and warned a year ago, that it would be normal to threaten Alexander Vukic and that it would be a daily thing. Unfortunately, we've come to this situation that when a criminal, a hit man admits he's got an offer to kill President Alexander Vukic of two different mafias, but hardly anyone or anyone, rarely who reacts. As far as the law is concerned and how it is defined, Mr. Grdić talked about it, I won't repeat myself, but just one more thing. Different treatment of individuals or groups on the basis of facts that determine them is considered discrimination. There's one more thing you need to know here. I'm slowly finishing up, Mrs. Jankovic. This is not about discrimination against me, my fellow Members of Parliament, Alexander Vukic as Alexander Vukic, whether he is a president or a citizen. You have to understand that Srdjan Nog's threats and the constant calling for the murder of Srdjan Nog are not simply calling for the murder of people who are members or officials of SNS or the president of the state, it's an invitation to kill 60% of the people in Serbia who supported the SNS, who voted for us. This is how these people are discriminated against just because they support the responsible policy that the state is conducting today. I can't keep my mouth shut and watch it happen without reacting and asking you not to deal with this question. There has never been a place of violence in Serbia since the SNS was in power, we have always fought against it. When threats were made, it was always you who wanted us to drop the ball and talk to political inexperiences about every topic, to participate in the dialogue. They won't, they won't, they don't, they don't know they don't have arguments, because the results behind them have never had, so as to speak. But all they have left is naked hatred and trying to intimidate someone or motivate someone to assassinate President Alexander Vukic. With such things must be interrupted, it must end once and for all and the state must finally send a clear message that the threat to anyone, any citizen of Serbia is absolutely unauthorized and unimaginable. I will support you as a proposal and I am also convinced that you will most well-intentionedly understand all of this that I've been talking about. I would just like to tell the citizens of Serbia to keep their character, not to be upset. I have full confidence in Serbia's state authorities, primarily the military and the police. It will not stop Serbia's failed politicians, the half-trons of Dragan Gilas, like this Srdjan Nog. Srdjan Nogo has ended his political career, he is left with only this way to try to win some cheap political point from those most extreme people who only know and know how to hate Alexander Vukic and SNS, but I am confident that Serbia will go forward in the next period, because we owe it all to our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u927	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP and vice president of the National Assembly, Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u928	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to go with you, and with the citizens of Serbia who are following the Assembly at this time, of course, to share a few words, since today's debate, or the process that preceded this debate, has served again for another hack at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which represents, you will all agree, one small segment, perhaps only one component of the wider picture, the overall mosaic of those things that are unfortunately current today in Serbia, which the whole country and the whole society are burdening. The issue of relations with the National Assembly of individual ones, and to be clear there, those who do not want well neither the National Assembly nor Serbia at all, is known from the moment he took the oath, but, frankly, he is known from before. It is not simply known today whether they have a bigger problem with the previous Parliament's cohabitation or with those who are just getting to know each other, whether more people who, precisely because they have shown in the previous session that they are able to make arguments, the heart, the battle in the paramparts, tear apart all those groups of former regimes that were sitting on the other side, thought that they might be able to dominate aggression and boast of this hall, so they were bitterly repented and deceived, so it seems to me that they spent more than two years outside the front door of the House of the National Assembly, or they are more disturbed by the new young people, and over 50% of the current convocations are just like that, so the people whose first mandate as the MPs. Those of them who have graduated from the SNS Academy are probably the ones who are most in the way. But let's hear exactly what's bothering you and why it bothers you. Were they sick? If so, let it explain exactly what and why they felt bad about what we did here in this room four years ago, by discussing all those things that were 50th holed up on everyone before us, by organising special sessions to talk about both Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina, we showed that we were not running away from these topics, on the contrary, to appreciate and respect them, so that we would even do so on the proposal of people who were opposition folk representatives. We never had a problem like that. Is that bad? Let me explain why it's bad. Perhaps just because no one has ever thought of dealing with these issues before. Really? Is it bad and how bad it is that we put on the agenda proposals that came from the other side of the hall, showing that we respect everyone, and it's probably worse than what we're doing today? They're looking for, among other things, censorship in the National Assembly. They're asking us to be banned from talking about what we think is necessary, right and useful and that we're probably forced to say what they think we should say. Well, it's not. So, the previous council is probably guilty, among other things, and for us to adopt here those standards that any opposition in this country could never dream of. Did we lower the election threshold from 5% to 3% at all levels? Who did this before us and who's using it? Not for sure, but we did it, showing that we are able to understand the need for pluralism, the need to respect everyone, however little support they have, if there is, if people want to vote for it. We will respect every voice and respect it always, both the one we receive and the one who gets and the other, whoever it is. Is that a sin? And then it's probably the right thing for them to do, at the time, with 3% for local elections, raise 5% overnight to slow down their political competition. And what is secret today, as they say, Mrs. Jankovic, about this session, so they've been doing the haika and the haranga again? The fact that we're decent, normally, as we always do, is publicly announced on Friday that we're holding a session of the Committee on Monday to discuss the proposal of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. What is secret when it is officially published in the National Assembly, when all of Serbia knows about it, except for those who find it difficult to deal with their journalistic work, and it is about representatives of the tycoon media, Gilas and Šolakov. So they say, "We did not know until Sunday." And what did you find out on Sunday? Was it hard for you to do your job for two days? You went to the weekend? Is that our fault? So then they come to the Committee's session and they say, "It's scheduled in secret," and we don't know how we found out about it when it was so secret, but here we came, so now we're filming a debate here and we're attending what's going on in direct transmission, what the whole of Serbia is looking at, what's on the stream on our site, it was so secret. Then they're harassing us with all kinds of questions and observations, whether it's because they're not proposed candidates they consider their own. What would that burden us, and what would we be interested in? So don't be harassing the People's Assembly, don't be the people's messengers who became as honest and honest yesterday as you've even met them, and you've found that you've been harassing them every day on your televisions, daily newspapers, Sundays, web portals, whatever you've got, God knows what you already have. Then we come to the National Assembly session, here we are in the big hall of this house, in the middle of the plowshare, we speak openly, we discuss and re-translate everything at public service, and whoever wants to watch and comment. And what are we doing secretly and badly? Nothing at all. But that's the need to blacken this place and say all the worst about both the Assembly and everyone here, every MP sitting here, about the state first of all. For what? Because the president of that country is Alexander Vukic. So say it. Say it bothers you first. And don't consider yourself invited to count how many times we've spoken his name or any other name. You are probably in pain, without any physical pain, every time you see that somewhere on your TV underneath the name and last name of a folk MP who speaks is also “Alexander Vukic – For our children”. Excuse me, please, if that's why we have to worry and suffer. That is what is called our parliamentary group, which has been elected right from the electoral list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" and that is what the citizens of this country voted for. And what you think is smarter than 60% and more than 60% of the people in this country, and you with, how much you have, is 2%, according to their latest research, that's like, 2% or 3%? Well, it won't be like that. And just because you think you're better and more valuable than everyone else in this country, and 2% of you are being measured by the people, that's why you're more than 60% on the other side, that's why you deserve everyone to tell you that you're imaginary. You deserve to be told that you're not any elite, you're just a fake elite, no matter how much you see yourself for something special and special, you're fake and you're nothing. And when a high representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church tells you that and when one of us tells you that, it's equally true, and it can hurt us as much or as much, it's your business. Did we do something wrong for the first time in 20 years that we formed the Supervisory Board in this House to control the elections? Is that what you're looking for, genius? You said you couldn't live without it. You said there was no choice without it. And, here, we do it. And, not just did. Of the five representatives of the Supervisory Board, who come to the proposal of the parliamentary groups, we chose most of them on your proposal. Three, it came directly to the opposition group's proposal. It wasn't a problem for us. No problem, but that's no good either. Why don't you explain why? And we chose three plus two five members of the REM Council again because you asked for it. If you don't understand exactly what that means, we've made a new majority in that REM that has a total of nine people. There's so many members gathering. You asked for it again and again from what MP groups and those of the Serbian Parliament, and the Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina, proposed, chose the people who were your favorites, and here these are now making the circus, the ones that are your greatest heroes there. Well, these are the people who were chosen only a few months ago by our majority, to show you that we want to respect that proposal and that we have no problem. Now it's no good either. And nothing about the National Assembly was right. This dialogue, which you mentioned today inter-partyly. Well, we invited everyone to this dialogue when we passed the laws here, and we adopted the whole set of things that you wanted for stronger, more, more rigorous punishments and shorter deadlines of decision-making and to better sanction any abuse of public resources and to prevent the functioning of campaigns, whatever people you wanted. We adopted everything and said no problem. We can deal with it or not, but you'll see we'll win anyway. That's when we organized the public hearings here, here to bring down the censorship, we here, in this room, in the small hall of the National Assembly, organized a public debate and you never talked, and because you didn't come, that's why we never did. Invite everyone, not just MP groups, not just every party, every single party that was represented in this home, but every party that was not represented in this home. There was no opposition or former regime if we would honestly, neither parties, nor movements, nor associations, nor God knows what they're not called, that we didn't invite them. And which of them came? It's nobody. There, they cared so much about anything about the process. But we're so on the other hand we've shown willingness for that dialogue. This is what the representatives of the European Parliament participated in. Out of 17 points in the commitment table. We agreed with them for two more then, we'll see that, we'll discuss it after the 2020 elections. The 15 that can be realized in any way are all realized to the end. Look at that table today. In addition to each section note, implemented completely. What's wrong with that? And what's wrong with that? And, come on, let's accept that none of this was good. Everything we've chosen, everything you've asked for, everything we've adopted that you've been crying for. What's the problem with the new stimuli then? There, the one you can't regret at all. What are you to blame are these people who are doing something here today, young people, because they belong to the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – For our children, because they are chosen from that list, so you do not literally stop dealing with it, harass them. You put it in your paper, you upload to your portals, you spin on those, no one funny and fun shows. What exactly is it about? Is Luke Kebara guilty of what he said, so you don't like his hairstyle or the color of the suit he chose? I'm sorry, please, if it affects you personally that we don't go to the hairdresser you're going to, that we don't dress in expensive salons and thighs where you dress, but that doesn't bother us at all. I guess there's a problem with that young man telling the truth. And what did he tell you? He told you that you've been acting like savages in this room until just a few months ago, that you've been rolling rocks here. Isn't that true? That you were breaking down the front door. Isn't that true? That you broke into the cabinet of President Maja Gojkovic's Parliament, attacked a woman physically. Isn't that true? If you had caused a fight here, hit the MPs, eventually tried to break in, it happened now at the end of the summer, to break into the home of the National Assembly, managed to break through the door, throw the torches on fire with all the calls -- burn everything. What did the MP Kebara tell you that was not true? It's gonna hurt that you know it's absolutely true. Janko Langura, whom I congratulate on an extraordinary address today when he played the role of our authorised representative. Because he dared to say he wouldn't be a partner with tycoons, blatant thieves from the previous regime, and you think we have to be allies with them. Let us be allies with those who want to burn down the National Assembly. I'm sorry, please, that we're not particularly attracted to this kind of thing, so we don't want to work with such people, which we don't think of anything particularly nice, and it's probably guilty of that. Ivana Nikolic, who dared to pronounce the name of Alexander Vukic. You geniuses if you haven't figured it out yet and learned it, here's a chance to learn some things today. The National Assembly is a political institution. Political institutions talk about politics. What is the policy represented by the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Well, that policy that got there and that fantastic, record-breaking, powerful, plebiscite support of the citizens of this country and you think that we are ashamed, that we are obliged to be ashamed and such policies. Then you don't even know what you expect from us, because what you expect isn't real. We're proud of that policy. Every result of this policy and every result of that policy will be proud to point out here, to talk about our plans, about everything we do further in the period ahead of us, no matter how long this mandate lasts and, of course, it goes with the name of Alexander Vukic. That's the man who established that policy, that's the man who made that result, that's the man who got the support of this country's people in that fantastic number. What do you expect the parliamentary group representing this policy to say and which one is selected from that list? Maybe it's a bit of a bigger problem when someone dares to mention you bandits most common in the former regime, to mention you and to say what you were doing. I'm sorry, I'm asking for that, too. Here, we've all been upset because you're not comfortable hearing it, and you're gonna have to hear it, I'm afraid, just so you never forget what you've been doing and how you've been doing about your relationship with the Assembly, lies and swindles when you've voted from what kind of Bodrum and Thessaloniki, when you've managed to burn down the National Assembly, to rob and feed everyone alive, but to the country in general. Don't ever forget that you've thrown more than half a million people out on the street. Bandits are most common, at a time when you were to take care of them and take care of them, to provide for their children's future, you made sure that you sent their parents to wander through cities and villages in this country, looking for a place to find bread. Let's not talk about anything else about that country's future. Forgetting it. Well, not while we're here. It's our obligation not to forget it, and when someone tells you that, they still say by name and last name that you did it, then they deserve to be placed on a pillar of shame. What Lav Pajkic knows about the Constitution, so he can be a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Well, he knows a lot more than you geniuses do, because for the beginning of this constitution he never broke, nor invited to break, and you do it every day of God when you're philosophizing on the subject—e, we want regular elections to be today or in a month or until we agree when it suits us. Regular elections, that's what the Constitution says when they are, but good. It doesn't matter to you either, it's only important that you wash your mouths off to young people who are hundreds of times better and smarter and more capable and have already shown that in politics they are more successful, and how many times more moral, how many times they are more honest and better raised, we better not compare. Better not to compare you'll be ashamed even more if you're capable of shame at all. It is bad that Ivana Popovic decided to be in Belgrade when she attends meetings of the National Assembly. Really? What's got into you guys in particular? The fact that he wants to attend meetings of the National Assembly is why he is entitled to a certain cost that covers the National Assembly. Maybe he should have rented an apartment from Gilas Gojka, you heard about him, he has a great offer of apartments, and nothing minded when the beating of Dragan Gilas, Boška Obradovica, took a lot of money in his previous assembly. Travel to Belgrade, but also to an apartment that was allegedly rented on Dedinj, which Professor Atlagic would say – behold, miracles, man cannot choose the neighbourhood. It doesn't taste good, and he rented it from a friend of his just for trouble, not for it to come like our fellow MPs to the home of the National Assembly every time there was a session. It wasn't that session or video fair, it was that he was rolling around Belgrade day and night, pulling out traffic signs, and it was a complete contribution to the work of the National Assembly. He boasted here that he was an official representative, co-ordinator of the tycoon Alliance for Serbia in the home of the National Assembly. And today, those who have become accustomed to calling themselves great liberals, great Democrats, the bearers of freedom of all colors and species, called "live censorship" seek no freedom, seek restrictions, seek bans, do not allow us to represent our policy, do not let us mention who is the creator of that policy and who is the most responsible for the good results of that policy. They tell us, you can't mention the name of us because we didn't participate in the election. What would be different if you participated in the election? I'm not so sure you'd even go over the three percent we provided, if you say yourself that you're at the level of support of two to three percent, you're not really there. It's their media, so their sources are saying so. Taken during those rallying and walking, surveyed, watched out, not the citizens of Serbia, but only their sympathisers who came to their rally. They say, here among these gathered, a total of 6% supports all of them together, and individually like 1, like 2%, that's it. If you in your own ranks, among people who favor you in any way have no support greater than 2%, then what would you do in Serbia, what result would you achieve? Would you enter the National Assembly at all, I'm not sure of anything at all, but even if you did? Then what would you like? Again outside and again empty room to watch, or part of the gym where you would possibly get to sit. And that's what we've been really worried about, and that's exactly why we've decided, as you say, to introduce a terrible dictatorship, autocracy, awe, that's why we're, today, leading to these geniuses, some kind of hybrid regime. A terrible evil hybrid regime that allows them to cross the census. If only we had a voice medicine bar, and they didn't. A scary, horrible hybrid regime that allows the National Assembly to be discussed openly and freely. Now it's wrong and it bothers you. A scary, disgusting hybrid regime that has, simply, the courage to say that today is good and pointed at everyone's face and pop pop and bob. Not even Marko Atlagic is good because he never tried to have a different style, but so, directly to everyone's face what he deserved. Marijan Rističević, who speaks in the same way. You'd like us to act like your slave obedients, so we can earn a little break from the other side. That applause doesn't interest us at all. If we were interested in that, we wouldn't be here. And that we were representing that policy we represent. As they seek censorship, those who self-wrest themselves with the names of liberals, Democrats and whatnot. In the National Assembly, he asked for it in the media, and all of it concerns between you and your duties. It is true, said one of our MPs today, Mr. Mirkovic said that – people who are subject to retribution because of certain personal properties are people you should worry about and you should worry about too. Among other things, one of the things that falls within your jurisdiction and obligations is to alert the public about such phenomena, to speak publicly. And when our MPs say so, the young MPs at the board's session, these geniuses say -- you haven't read the law. Come on, you read it to us, please. Well, why don't you read it to us, so when we find out that these young people know everything 500 times better than you do, what do we do? And in the media, you want censorship. It is a threat, not just once, but hundreds of times, that you will hunt and arrest the press, just like you will the police, but to come to power somehow, just like you will all of us here. Were you openly threatening, this was done by Bosko Obradovic, the fascist Ljoticevic and those of him, that he would advocate stricter laws, that all journalists who did not like him would receive long-standing prisons. He was little, so he said he wanted to advocate the introduction of death sentences for such journalists. Imagine that, death sentences for journalists who don't like them, and that everything would be the way they like it and how they like it. Now I'm going to show you a little bit more precisely what that means, that's nice and that they like it. An official REM report on media work analysis came out in the previous election campaign. On tycoon televisions, and these are Gilas and Solakova televisions, this N1, Nova S and so on, to see what the standards of freedom, equality, equality and fair play are. The representation of the N1 election campaign participants is measured all and shown, the Alliance for Serbia, thus baptising these former regimes until recently, and as they are called today, they don't know themselves, but that's what they were called at the time 16.81% when branches 20.44% of beautiful 20.5% were added to them. Alexander Vučić – for our children, complete list 5.5%. Look, someone who has plebiscitarian support in this country, it's his political weight and relevance, that he has four times less time than those who judge themselves at 2% to 3%. Is it evenness, is it fair play, it's censorship, that we call things a real name. Daily information shows, the same TV, again N1, they all jutura 28.3%, and the complete electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children 7%, four times less, because their 2% is probably four times bigger than our 60%. Central information show of the same television, they again 16.4% and the complete electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children 4%, because it is probably normal and logical that those who do not go to the elections have four times as much as those who have overhalf the support of Serbian citizens. What if you had just gone to the election, you wouldn't have had four, but how many, forty times more. Regular and specialized information show, again four times more represented by those who are not at all interested in the elections. So what did you have to talk and write about, if you're completely uninterested in the subject and what equality it is, who are you going to explain it to? The authorities in Luxembourg? New With TV, to see what extremism is now, the representation of the participants of the election campaign, those who were not involved in anything allegedly 16%, 15.9%, and then you start looking for where there's an election list that got 60% of the votes, so it's not elsewhere, there's these free citizens who haven't even crossed the censorship, and they've tried, not on the third, not on the fourth, there's still some who are below 1%, not on the fifth or on the sixth, so you have to look for the bat, this is the tenth place, I'd say. Alexander Vukic – for our children 1.16% of their respected time. There are fifteen times less relevant, we who represent 60% of the citizens' votes, over two million living physical voices compared to those who know themselves and admit that they don't even have a censorship. Central news show Nova S, 16.4% of them. I have to admit here, I'm not wrong about the soul, we're significantly improved here, we only have four times less here, not fifteen times less than the total program, only four times less we have time than those with their fantastic 2%. There were different reasons for this type of result, you're right, Mr. Atlagic. Rows and specialized information shows, just when you think things are getting better, they're 16% again, and you're looking for the result of the election list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and he's nowhere, until you happen to find him at the start of 0.58% of their election time. We were so represented in any way. You say this is some terrible autocracy, a terrible dictatorship, there's no room for you here. Then what is this? How come you can have 16% of the total participation in the program somewhere, and we own, tyrants, 0.58%? When you look at all the televisions together, to be an ego, you who allegedly don't participate in anything, to have as much time as those who have the essential importance and majority support of the citizens of this country. How you do it in dictatorship, I still don't get it, but that's about 10% of each other. Why do you care so much that you have to control all the media? So you can implement the editorial policy you're used to. Here's an example. Do you want to do this on all the media, as you did when you first lied to the yellow tycoon Gilas Dragan that his hearers didn't burn books as Nazis, which they did when they were in the middle of the Prince of Michael, as if Berlin's Opren had been crying, burning books, savages most common, and then lied for weeks -- well, it wasn't us, it was someone else, in order to put pressure on the evidence, press the videos, they had to admit to the cameras both Gilas and Miljas. Here's how "N1" reports. First the news comes out, Gilas said – a member of the SAA lit the book. That's this game he bought. Then realizes, it doesn't sound good, so the title changes, 12 minutes later, now reads – a member of the SAA joined in burning the book. He wasn't on fire, someone else was on fire, and he saw what was going on, so he joined. How does that news end? Eventually, by getting some miracle title -- Dragan Gilas said -- it was all BIA's fault, they mounted the whole case. It's this editorial policy and the attitude towards the media that you're defending and which should probably be a standard just for you to come to power. So, just a lie and just censorship. To make this kind of thing a standard or what came out today in one of your Sundays, one of those shrimp cartoons on which the members of the SNS are depicted as hooligans, mobsters, batins, and among them, to draw a patriarch, a late patriarch, to put on his hat a sign of SNS, to say that he was a political patriarch, I suppose. Marko Atlagic: Shame on them! The man who passed away the other day, yes. These are these wonderful standards that we all need to pursue. That's the beauty we should all enjoy again only if you come to power. Is that what you want for all of us? I'm sorry that we disagree and that we think Serbia can and must do much better than that. You want so much that you have control over the media that things like that can only be seen and shown without seeing or showing what? For example, the truth. That in your own media you've been criminally calculating the price of advertising in the political program, that you've tariffd those boycott videos on a few thousand dinars per second or per second, but brother to brother 60 times less than you've charged the others, that for others what costs between 180 and 212, 215 thousand, it costs you several thousand dinars alone. So you don't happen to see it, you don't happen to know it. Is that why you want censorship in the media? Is that why you want absolute control over all the media? That no one hears of your thieving in this country. What were you even doing? Because you don't have enough money to save some money? Don't lie to me. You don't miss anything when it comes to money. Six hundred and nine hundred nineteenm euros were exactly the revenue of only four, four of those larger companies, Dragan Gilas, at the time he was in power. So they didn't have that 619m euros the moment he came to power. They came to the moment when the people chased him. If you don't have something when you're in power, and you have a moment when you're coming down from power, so when did you get it, master? You could've only done it in the meantime. The time stream is the only one, there's physics inexorable. Well, then who's gnawing and then who's been robbing, who's got a senseless fortune in politics, that kind of policy-making? Well, you are, Gilas Dragan, as much as you didn't like to hear it, but it's true, and everyone in this country knows it. It's a lie not to deal with the authorities, Mr. Bakarec reminded me of that these days. Officially investigated and processed by the competent authorities of the link "Darrekt Media" and its management and employees. So, Gilas's companies were pouring in, drop by drop, and the truck would rather be a 619m-euro sum truck collected into his pockets and so full of pockets and already made bank accounts more difficult. So the Darekt Media, its Darekt Media, on the one hand, and RTS marketing, on the other hand, in which Dragan Gilas, at the advantage of the price, has reselled seconds from one to 10 in relation to the market. That's when it happened and it's being investigated and processed. The estimated damage at this point, Mr. Bakarec, five or six million euros, and we'll see what will be covered at the very end, but that, you know, cannot be heard and seen. What else can't be heard and seen? That a man named Gilas Gojko traded fairies whose value was also measured in millions of euros. I'm sorry, you who don't get out of the mouth of Brother Alexander Vukic, brother of the president of the state, and there's nothing you haven't accused him of, from the owner of this restaurant or that restaurant, the winery and all sorts of miracles, and all the while lying, you're just lying about having to go out the right owners to talk about it – people, this has nothing to do with the truth, we're the owners, we're no man under that name, and you're just repeating raw, disgusting lies at the expense of that man. Would you like to convince us now that someone named Gojko Gilas, brother of Alexander Wolfich? It won't go, the last name doesn't match, but it matches the last name of the other Gilasu, the one called Dragan, and he doesn't like to hear his name pronounced. While you're accusing this evil country, this autocratic, despotic government, of allegedly doing something wrong with our public enterprises, with our dedicated industry, your brother, your brother, with the directors of these companies you're talking about, and only lies, burdening others, exchanging under the arm, under the grain, under the cost of every villa worth the right little fortune. Well, how are you not ashamed? How can you people not be ashamed that you're doing all the time, all the time what you're accusing others of? Where's that? Now you want us to pretend stupid and deaf, to be silent about all this and pretend like nothing happened isn't to get us to talk to you, to like you for something or something. I'm afraid that's not how it's gonna work, but the same thing they do about the National Assembly, what they did in the National Assembly while they were here, the same thing they do in the media, that's what they do on social networks. Once again, to fully understand and speak openly, they do this, the former regime, the jilas listeners and other tycoons. Are his brothers or what else he is, I don't know, and I don't care, but their people are the ones who make the worst, the most monstrous possible accusations against the family of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, at the expense of his children. It doesn't seem to me for a year. We were protesting today, we couldn't believe what was going on, when they were publicly sent over social networks, threats to the children of Alexander Vukic. They called for rape, or death, and rape of his older son and his daughter. So, how did they defend themselves against these things? They said, well, these are some anonymous people from social networks, we have nothing to do with it. Well, it won't be, because then how does it happen that these anonymous people, and they're not anonymous at all? Aleksandra Jankovic Aranitovic is at stake. The name is known. When processed by the authorities, they become your heroes. Your heroes! Whose portal is "directly" that celebrates this woman? He says Sergey Trifunovic, and I trust him, because it is the coalition partner Dragan Gilas, they went to the elections in Belgrade together, they have a joint committee group, it is the portal of Dragan Gilasa, the "directly". Whose tycoon is NIN? Well, you see, with each other, that woman was making threats, which called for the liquidation and rape of the children of Alexander Vukic, the heroine. They bring out a dramatic text about her grave fate of political rebels and persecutors and say -- she will sue the state for what happened to her, it's not her fault. Now listen to this fantastic thought. They say – as far as Twitter is concerned, these networks where they write these things are active, Alexandera, and occasionally writes songs to Alexander Vukic, a slow repeat of the post for which she was punished. So, slowly repeat these disgusting, monstrous things, and listen to the follow-up sentence – because it is really fearless. She's really fearless, and we should all admire her for that abomination, because she's not inhuman, that's beastly I would say. Someone says “your activist, your people, you who are following you who are doing all this with you, ” they say“ no, those are some, we don’t know who they are. ” But here, they sort of miraculously end up in the tycoon media, they're getting praises, they're being knocked at by the stars, and they admire them because they're really fearless. Why, what have they done so bravely? How much courage do you have to call for the rape and death of someone's children? To say some of these things they say these days, that the older son of the President of the Republic is "mentol", that his daughter is "sick", that his younger son is a "passion"? Does it take a lot of courage, a lot of brains for words like that? He doesn't need either. But it's a real picture of who you are, what you want for this country and the children of this country, only if you think their parents deserve your revenge. I can't say for either, I won't say the most harmless, but the purest, most positive thing, to get out the wife of the President of the Republic to support a nice noble action, an invitation to provide better, a better quality treatment for children and adults, not to find someone smart again and say, "This is a disaster, this is abuse, this is tyranny." Why? Because the lady is standing next to the Serbian tricolor, the national flag. Do you want to forbid us from loving our own flag? Will you forbid us to be proud of our national sign, to take away the flags we have and which we love? (Marco Atlagic: They rip those flags.) That's right. They ripped those flags, we know what they were doing to them, but to stop us from loving our flag, to love our country, I'm afraid you expect too much. It's just never gonna happen. We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are obliged to feel anxious and responsible for this country, to appreciate and respect its signs, to protect every child in this country, to try to help every man. Finally, to love, because you can't do this job if you don't. I don't want to say business, but what you need to worry about, and that's just the most important thing we have, the most valuable thing we have. It's our country, it's our country, it's our Serbia. There will be a lot of work, as many have said, Mrs Jankovic, to take care of these things and to deal with them, but today, practically, at the beginning of the mandate, we approach the business, to form the proper capacity of one of the independent institutions, and for that you are a witness and evidence, we show, among other things, how we treat both our country and how we respect all its institutions. We will always take such good care of the institutions that we need to protect and represent, we will always show how we treat our country. We will surely fight for it every day, as much as it bothers some, and we will speak with pride that this is the policy that the people have given support to. It is a policy that we are obliged to represent, because our obligations are to love our country and to show that it is not difficult, not at all difficult, but rather it is our pleasure to fight until the last breath, until the last drop of sweat for that country, because we do not have another. To this love we are bound by this obligation by the parliamentary group “Alexander Vukic – for our children” is proud. Let him hear it well and remember all of Serbia well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u929	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right to speak? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search into the proposal for a decision to elect the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. After we have conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft decision on selecting the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, in general. Honorable MPs, according to members 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month. I'm just reminding you, and I'm not having an appointment and I'm not setting a voter's day, but I'm reminding you that the vote on all these points that we've finished the debate will be after that session will be around 1900 hours. I thank the future old and new Trustee for his presence, and I want successful work if the Assembly grants her this mandate, and I am sure it will. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refer to the way MPs are asked. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure. Following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. Before we move on to asking questions, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, November 26th, 2020, starting at 19.05 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I welcome the Prime Minister and members of the government. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word is made by the People's Messenger and the Vice President of the Assembly, Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u931	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I welcome you all. My question, quite logically, applies and is related to the situation in which we are located, and specifically to what was happening in the Sandzak area, namely Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica during July, when we had a difficult situation regarding Kovid 19 and extremely severe consequences for the citizens of this space. By then, according to our data, more than 300 people died in the space of the three municipalities. By that, and corresponding to the population, we were the point of record mortality in that month. There have been so far requests from several sides, and my question concerns – what will the government, and above all the competent ministry, do about determining responsibility for this situation? There is certainly one aspect that can justify objective circumstances, but not all that has happened, because there are many indicators that the situation at the New Market medical center is extremely bad, regardless of what is at that point, and it should be pointed out, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state summit itself took all that was necessary and, thank God, it gave results, especially intervention and military hospital and all other facilities. It should also be pointed out that many people have shown their solidarity, doctors across the forest and other parts of Serbia, from other medical centres, as well as from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those were all positive sides. But all of these positive aspects of human solidarity should not overshadow what should be our responsibility in state bodies, which is the individual responsibility of the people at the New Pazar medical center, because we have a situation that for the past 15 years two people, two people, are being replaced at the head of the Medical Center, are still members of the same family, in close family relations and are competing to achieve more personal privileges and profits. Unfortunately, and now, this same director of the Medical Centre is in the position, despite numerous demands both within and outside the centre. It's something that leaves a certain shadow and the citizens who chose us are expecting an answer, and here we are, on behalf of them, asking the government's authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u932	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u933	First of all, good day to all, I am glad to be here today to start this dialogue between the Government and the National Assembly, that we are responsible for you every last quarter of the month, and to answer the questions of the MPs, to report to you on everything we do, and to, after all, record those topics that we should be working on, that is, to which you point out that we should put more focus in our work. As for the situation in the Raška region, in Novi Pazar, it was indeed, as we all know, extremely, extremely difficult, during July especially in August. We have done everything in our power to, as you have, thank you for recognising it, provide all possible additional assistance and support to the hospital in Novi Pazar and to all residents of Novi Pazar, but also to Tutina and Sjenica and I think that in the given circumstances we have done a good job, or best possible. You know that I was in Novi Pazar, along with Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar, and that before that, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic visited Novi Pazar and brought himself additional equipment, respirators, protective equipment and everything that our healthcare workers need to successfully fight the coronary virus. As far as personal responsibility is concerned, I have two answers. One is that none of us in the system escapes personal responsibility, never runs away and will never run away, not in these, not difficult moments, but the hardest moments for all the countries of Europe, but also the world since World War II. So here we are, to bear personal responsibility and to say what we have done and how we have done and that we have all worked together at all times in these terrible circumstances and we are working in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The other thing I want to tell you, which is that it seems to me that everyone's personal responsibility should be sought only when all this is behind us and when this is all gone and when we come out of this as winners, and I know that we will come out as winners, and then we have time to sit down and see the personal responsibility of everyone and how every single factor in this society has contributed to this fight, which is the struggle of society and every single person for the whole society, or to this fight, and there has been that. So, the competent and competent institutions do their job, and I invite you to continue this fight together, and then to discuss each individual's responsibilities when this is all behind us. In any case, I can guarantee that each of us, and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Resolute Ministry, did his best to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are cared for best at all times, to protect everyone's life as much as possible in this terrible situation and that we are in this, no matter how difficult it is. In Novi Pazar, it was really hard, at any point we were among the few countries that could always take care of all those who were infected by the crown of the virus, to provide all the drugs as expensive as they were, enough respirators, so that we wouldn't have to rule out some people who might have fewer chances, to give some who had a better chance of living, but to provide everyone with absolutely everything to heal, survive, and to keep us as a society going. So, anyway, that's my answer and I know what we did for Novi Pazar and how we did it and how much we did it, as well as for any other city and municipality in the Republic of Serbia. I'm proud of that fight. It's still going on, it's probably harder at this point than ever, and it's gonna be hard for a while, it's gonna be hard until it reaches the vaccine. We will guarantee it, as President Aleksandar Vukic said, to be among those countries that will be the first in the world to receive or among the first in the world to receive a vaccine against the crown of the virus. For that we will not save resources, we will not save money, nor political ties, nor whatever it takes to get those vaccines so that we can finally go into a period of recovery and recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u934	Thank you. Muamer Zukorlic has the right to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u935	I thank you for your response, and it makes sense that we cannot have full responsibility until the full state of affairs is over. But since we are fighting the crowns for those people who prove to be destructive in that fight, that is, responsible for certain phenomena at the Medical Center, it is bad to keep them until the end of the battle, because then the battle may be unsuccessful. That's what the citizens expect from you, and we're moving here. So we're transferring a detailed investigation and not giving up. All those who are guilty, answer. We are fully aware of the sensitivity, and in no way do I want to politicise this, politically exploit these emotions, but this is something that we owe the citizens and we will insist on. The additional issue concerns the fight against organised crime. We are pleased with the announcement of a new wave of fight against organised crime, the mafia and all forms of crime. Just once again, we want to insist that it not only remains at the level of large centres like Belgrade. We were pleased by the fact that certain persons were responsible for the robbery of citizens' property in Novi Pazar, brought to justice, arrested, processed, but information appeared in Novi Pazar that the arrest was prepared as early as December last year. Please answer us, is that true to tell the citizens? Is it true that the arrest was delayed because of the election or not? We want to know that, although we welcome this action, the truth is, it's about smaller fish that would be expressed in the political system, and you know well that in this honored home, I have spoken repeatedly about the prevention of organised crime and crime in general and politics. We want to support you in that, to continue with that. Anyone who puts their hands in the money has to answer and that's a good first step, but it's very important to give these clarifications. Also in recent days, we have been nervous about criminals in Sjenica, where an notorious criminal known there, not to mention his name here, doesn't deserve it, so from his mobile phone from his official number threatened the activists of the opposing political party, the president of the municipality and those who are actually disclosing all this crime, needs a response from the MUP and the competent state authorities. A question for the Ministry of Finance -- how it is possible for seven years for the representatives of the Auditor's institution not to come into control of the Sjenica budget. They only came to our request two months ago and discovered such abuses, over 260 million in first control alone. Of course, we welcome this action now, but we want an answer, in those seven years, someone has to be responsible for why it was left to people in the municipal government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u936	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u937	Thank you. I'll be back on duty one more time. So now we can discuss personal responsibility and think that someone is guilty or not guilty, that he did something right or didn't do it right, but this really isn't the right time. Because it seems to me or no one in the world at this point knows exactly what we're dealing with when we're talking about this virus, or knows what the real and timely measures are to respond to this virus. So it seems to me that the best time for us to look at everything together, how we did, how we balanced both the measures and the lives of people, and the economy from which these people and these families eventually live and see what we've done. So is New Market. I think now that every calling for personal responsibility and assuming that someone in the New Market hospital is doing their job well or badly, would be premature, so that it wouldn't be objective and that it wouldn't all turn out to be good. We see at the end and at the republican level people who worship us every day what we do and say all the opposite things. Today we see not people who have interrupted applause for doctors who have been at eight o'clock in the evening, banging pots, gelenders, harassing people because we have had restrictive measures, all these people today are criticizing us because we have no more restrictive measures or because we are so late with some measures, so the question is, are we always really listening to these people as far as they come? Is that when we were supposed to give in to measures, and I guess now we have to tighten them up and introduce a curfew because they say so even though they have the cheeks to say something, because they've already criticised those measures back in March and April, at the moment when they thought the corona didn't exist and that we're closing people in houses just because we're dictators, tyrants and sadistics? But, well, that's what happened. After all, if there is one positive thing about this terrible monster, then it is that each of us has shown his true face and proved to be in the most difficult circumstances and how important or not important people's lives are in relation to cheap political points. So I'm standing by to think that we should talk about responsibility when all this is over and look at what we've done, how we've done, how we've been through, and then see who's done good, and who's doing bad, and of course none of us, at all times, will be running from responsibility. Also, I want to thank again the medical staff of Kruševac, from Kragujevac who immediately went to help Novi Pazar and indeed managed to establish all control and order there to the greatest extent possible. We have seen, unfortunately, as we have seen since March, when the first case of the Corona virus has been identified in Serbia, many false news, and at times when it was most difficult in Novi Pazar, and I am pleased to say that today is a pretty good situation in Novi Pazar, although of course it is as difficult as everywhere in the Republic of Serbia, we have again at the last 24 hours 20 newly infected, not only but it is much better than in most other cities in the Republic of Serbia and I thank the Novopazars for their responsible and disciplined behaviour because it could not be so that they are not disciplined and that they respect largely epidemiological measures. But then we saw, as I was beginning to say, the false news about no vitamin C, no protective equipment, no drugs, turns out it was all a lie, and there were vitamins, and protective equipment, and drugs. Now, we have such false news at all times, most likely during these most difficult situations, political campaigns and elections, so it's false news that any arrests have been delayed for the election. It's an absolute lie. We never put elections first, or above all what we had to do for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as easy or difficult as that was. So, categorically, I claim that no arrests have been delayed and that we have implemented everything as effectively as possible in the moments when we had the information and when we collected the evidence and when we were ready to implement such actions. Finally, as far as the auditors are concerned, the State Auditing Institution is independent, it corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Neither I nor the finance minister can influence their work, we can't send them somewhere, but you can do it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u938	Thank you. Mr. Zukorlic is reporting because he has the right to plead for a two-minute response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u939	Thank you for your answers, especially for this information about the auditors. So we're going to chase them from this position, which is why we're here, of course, along with you who'll give us additional information, because you're in a position to follow it all, because our role is actually, in addition to being members of the highest legislative and representative body, we're also members of the highest supervisory authority in the country, it's the National Assembly. As for insisting on responsibilities related to the Kovid in Novi Pazar, it is not just about the time of action against the Kovids. I've said what seemed to be from the level of state authorities, so that's quite clear, but the chaos that occurred was actually the consequence of responsibility from before, in terms of bad governance, poor staffing, employment by various grounds, corruption, that's it. That is why it is now necessary to encourage those decisions that would facilitate further struggle. What we are looking for, or citizens, is to form a special committee from the level of the ministry or government, to examine all this until the end. Certainly this about fighting organised crime, this is something we will continue to insist on, especially in the municipalities of Tutin and Sjenica. They're black holes in legality. Now that power's changed in the Shadow, it's simply revealed. So, here's the latest information, 10 million was paid last year by the Ministry of Tourism and Trade, for the ski center, they're losing every lead, they're just gone, not just unintentional, they're just gone. It was a common phenomenon there. That's why I'm calling on both the government and the competent ministry to help those who now want to lay things on sound ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u940	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u941	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and members of the Government, along with language, national symbols represent a element of the specificity of a nation through which members of that people, or its national minorities, can represent, or express their national identity. Starting with this principle, today the flag of the Republic of Serbia is freely in Gracanica, Kotor, Kumanovo, where then Serbs enjoy the status of national minorities. Nor do I see any harm in the fact that the minority, under the law, is exercising the right to free, public and official use of its national symbol. But the same standard does not apply in the Republic of Serbia. Although in the Constitution, Article 79 recognises the right of national minorities to use its symbols in public places, as a way of preserving their identity, the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities in the position of Article 14, restricts this right by formulating that their symbols cannot be identical with the symbols of other countries. Simply, while the flag of the Republic of Serbia can freely fly in the territories of neighbouring countries, the flags of neighbouring states cannot fly in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What message is sent this way? That other countries can limit national minorities to use their symbols freely and publicly. No, I don't think that's the answer. The solution is not in the ban on displaying national identity, but in setting standards that make us equal. Despite the legal ban on the official use of the national symbol of Albanians in the Republic of Serbia, we advocate equality – that the Serbian flag can be freely used by the Serb minority, but that at the same time minority members in the Republic of Serbia can freely use their symbols. The equality is that what I want to confess to myself is for others. So, that this flag can freely fly in Gracanica or other places in Kosovo, but also that this flag can freely fly in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji. Not equality in discrimination against national minorities, but equality in respect of their rights. As it prohibits the right of official use of national symbols, only the rights of Serbs to regions that enjoy the status of national minorities are jeopardised. How would you react if tomorrow's parliament from northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Kosovo wants to comply with its laws on the use of national symbols of national minorities with the law in the Republic of Serbia? Therefore, the amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in Serbia is imposed as a necessity that goes into the well-being and of the Serb minorities in the region. Putting the symbols of other countries on the reverberations of the president of the states in bilateral meetings is only a false illusion of democracy, until we recognise the right of a national minority to freely and officially use their national symbols. Equality in the right to use symbols of national minorities represents stability and the possibility of reconciliation and sustainable peace. On the contrary, it is only a source of further instability and hatred among the nations. Therefore, as president of the United Valley and the SDA parliamentary group, I am asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Human and Minority Rights - whether the Government will initiate the procedure for amending the Law, i.e. erasing the restrictions laid down in Article 14(2). The law on the rights and freedoms of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u942	Thank you. I ask that, as you all know, tolerance is at the highest possible level, but I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. It is not allowed to enter anything that is not part of the congregation material, and especially to highlight the flags of other countries. I would ask you to remove the flag of Albania, because it is not the flag of the Albanian national minority in our country. If you don't want to, then we're really gonna take a break. Mr. Cambery, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u943	I would only ask you to look at the Law on the Use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which describes the way in which the flag of other countries, Article 8, Article 33, Article 30, Article 41, can be used. In line with that, I applied this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u944	Since it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u945	If there's not that much tolerance...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u946	I would ask you, we have no tolerance for breaking the Rules of Procedure and ask you to remove the flag. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u947	Thank you. The honourable MP, a proposal for amendments to the Law on National Councils, will be submitted after a dialogue that will be organised under the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, and at the initiative of the National Councils themselves. At a meeting held with all representatives of all national councils in the Republic of Serbia, it is agreed. It's not the government that should tell members of the national minorities what's good for them, it's the other way around. On national minorities through dialogue in ex-post analysis, and on the basis of the Law on the Planning System on the Implementation of the Law on National Councils in Co-operation with Civil Society, with representatives of the academic community, with representatives of the Government, which directly refers to the objections you have, to form amendments and additions that we are then discussing when we are preparing a final version of the draft, i.e. the amendment and supplemental proposal. Representatives of the National Councils agreed that this was the only way to really apply what is written in the laws that protect human and minority rights, and that, in the context of their competences, and because of the list that will be held next year, they would give proposals on how to participate representatives of national councils in the census process to comply with the Framework Convention on Minority Rights and the Last, and perhaps not the last one, and the important thing is that, with the proposal to amend and supplement the law on the list, we also heard their views on how members of the national minorities suffered and what they suffered from the pandemic that hit us all, but whether it has something specific. There have also been talks about how both the official language and the letter and the symbols are used and it is not the only problem that exists has a lot of objections to the official use of language and letter by representatives of various national minorities and this will be the topic of dialogue. It is the conclusion from the meeting until 15 December that another one will be held and I call on such a meeting not only as an honourable MP, but also other MPs interested in hearing directly from elected representatives of national minorities in the dialogue what their demands are, what their needs are, what their objections are and what we hear and hear ourselves and to give each other the benefit of the doubt that we are working together for a better state of human and minority rights in Serbia. This includes the topics that you had in your member of the law describing the use of national symbols, as well as later use of language. I would like the way in which we will continue to conduct the dialogue to be focused on protecting our rights, because you have the right to everything written in the Constitution and the law, regardless of whether anyone, anywhere on the planet has any rights. The state of Serbia guarantees the rights of minorities based on what is written and has the obligation to listen to minorities if what is written no one will apply or wish to neglect by waiting for the Ministry and you and all others interested in working together to protect the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u948	Thank you. MP Shaip Kamberi has the right to comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u949	Thank you for your response. I hope that at least the process of Eurointegration in which Serbia is located will contribute to bringing in sensitive issues that mean the identity of a minority and that this process will help resolve this issue. I hope that this process that you and the national councils started earlier today gives concrete results, although so far there has been no particular will to resolve this issue. Here, we also see by the reaction of fellow Members of the People. And I only remind you of the Law on the Use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which says in Article 8 - that the coat of arms, or flag of foreign states, can only stand out in the Republic of Serbia by the coat of arms, or the flag of the Republic of Serbia. Which I did. Article 30. – if the flag of the Republic of Serbia stands out in the Republic of Serbia together with other domestic or foreign flags depending on how these flags are placed. , so the 4th position of the same member says – first place is to put the left-hand side in front, if the flags are lined up in a row. And when it is forbidden to stand out it is, it must not be exposed to touching the ground, nor as a base, a mat, a mat, a curtain or a drappery. The flag shall not cover vehicles or other objects nor shall conference tables or speakers be decorated except in the form of a flag table. So you're denying me the right to use this. In a way, you're trying to introduce a monopoly and censorship over the free word. If not, the ministry will surely launch an initiative to change that member in the very near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u950	Thank you. Of course, I most kindly ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as well as the decision on internal order in the National Assembly, which clearly states that in the premises of the National Assembly building it is forbidden to highlight the symbols and features of the political party and foreign states except in the premises assigned to the parliamentary groups for use. I don't know what it says or does it say in other laws, but it's clear what can be done and what is laughing in this hall where the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sessions are held. Accordingly, I ask you to behave accordingly. There's a word, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u951	Thank you. First of all, I will say that I, indeed as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, am extremely proud of what the Republic of Serbia is doing for representatives of all national minorities, how open we are society and what rights representatives of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia enjoy. As Prime Minister, I am also the chairman of the Republic Council for National Minorities, which brings together all the resolution ministries, relevant ministries and even 23 national councils of national minorities, to discuss once a truly regular and regular dialogue on what further we can do for representatives of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Serbia, for those who did not know, and I think we should all be proud together, we have as many as 11 different languages of national minorities in the official use of 42 local self-government and 49 seats. We have 44 thousand 70 students attending school in one of eight languages of national minorities. It is 5.4% of the number of students in the Republic of Serbia. We, if we're talking about, say, the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, in total over the past six years have given support from something of over 1m euros for the national council. This is only for the national council, therefore, we are not talking at all about everything we give in support of students and students in Presevo or Bujanovac through the Ministry of Culture and Information for various cultural programmes, media programmes, information in the language of the national minority, everything we give additionally as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. all citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the co-ordination body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, for support to both youth and economy and small and medium-sized enterprises. I am particularly glad that today we in Bujanovac have a grant for small and medium-sized enterprises where we have allocated 30 million dinars to 13 enterprises, and for the eight years preceding them, we allocate more than 300 million dinars for small and medium-sized enterprises from these municipalities. In addition to the regular budget of the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja each year receive additional financial assistance for the regular functioning of around 2m euros. We have opened the university there, and through the Coordination Body we provide support, i.e. scholarships for school 2019/20. The scholarships received 300 students totalling 16.2 million dinars. In addition, five generations of students were scholarshipd, 68 of them who enrolled in the schools in Novi Sad, the amount of a scholarship of 45,000 dinars. Since 2009, students are given school supplies and ranches every 1 September. During the covid of the virus, we employed 21 healthcare workers in Bujanovac and 25 healthcare workers in Presevo because of the need for health care homes. So, all in all, it really seems to me that the National Council of National Minorities and the Generally National Minorities in the Republic of Serbia have in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in the Republic of Serbia a good partner, a partner who has always been open to hear all the additional needs and what is further needed to do. As Prime Minister and citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I know how happy I would be if all of this had been done by representatives of Serbs in other countries of the region. To be able to study in Serbian, to get this much money from the governments of these countries, to preserve their culture, tradition, their letter, their own language, to have programs in their own language and in every way to support and respect each other. Unfortunately, this is not the case and we are not doing this because of reciprocity, but because we really believe that Serbia is the countries of all its citizens. We are proud of the diversity we have, and we have in the Republic of Serbia over 26 national minorities, or members, over 26 national minorities. When we speak, I must also say, of these unfortunate 90s where Serbia has been accused so many times of aggressor, it is somehow amazing to look into the truth and see that all other states in those wars where Serbia has been an aggressor have become ethnically clean, and Serbia has maintained its status and position as a country with one of the largest number of national minorities in all of Europe. It's something we're all proud of, and it's something, I think, that gives us the basis for further conversations. As I said in our first conversation, honourable MP, I would really like to talk about some more concrete things that are important to the quality of life of citizens, but I cannot determine that. If you think the fact that you have the right to your own flag is the flag of your national minority's national council that you're determining what it's going to look like, that we need to talk about some other flag, some other country. Well, then that says enough about how much you think there are real problems for Albanian residents in Presevo and Bujanovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u952	Thank you. Ambassador Cambery has the right to plead for an answer for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u953	As for the assistance of the Coordination Body, I don't think it's some gift given, but it's the obligation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the 2001 federal and republican government programme that continues today. As for the fact that today it's being divided into the Bujanovac 30 million for a small economy. It's okay, I say hello. As a member of the Co-ordination Body Presidency, I supported it and that part of the budget entered my initiative. But at the same time we have a few days ago, a week ago, we took down 20 million from the budget of our municipalities, right out of this Coordination Body, which means a lot to municipalities like Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. If, as you say, the coordination of national minority councils is in one partnership with the government, then I don't know why the last meeting was held a year ago. Such a partnership is not a guarantee of any success. Then you should meet with representatives of the National Minority Council as often as possible to listen to their problems and understand. I don't know if there are any more important questions for a man than his identity. We can also have money, we can have employment, if we have no identity, and without identity, I said, with language, the national symbol is part of the identity of the Albanian people. To be clear, the flag that Albanians use is not from 2012, it is a flag that Albanians have been using since 1443 and it is more a national flag than it is a national flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u954	I just want to ask Mr. Camberi, as you can see, that everyone has the right to say what he thinks, even if most of them do not agree with what some MP is thinking, as well as that discussion and controversy are being carried out freely, and I would only ask that you all be aware, including Mr. Cambery that you are a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you are not an envoy of a foreign state and that in this sense you must act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and other acts that regulate work in the building of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, if there are initiatives for certain changes in the law, dialogue with the government, you heard from the prime minister, the minister, that can be discussed freely. Of course, I'm glad you pointed out the flag of Serbia, which you don't do so often, and on the other hand, despite everything you've pointed out to the flag of Albania, I have to say it's easier for me, because you didn't highlight the flag of Kosovo, because it does say that you are also aware that when in Gracanica there's a Serbian flag, it's not the flag of a foreign state, it's this state of Serbia. I said this without any indignation or desire that we should really conduct dialogue in the best possible way and on the most difficult and complex topics. Let's move on, Dr. Muamer Bacevac from SDPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u955	We in the SDPS, Rasim Ljajic, pay great attention to energy efficiency and healthy and clean air. On the other hand, we are a country that unfortunately gets most of its energy by burning coal and other fossil fuels. In January, the government adopted a proposal for a negotiating position for Chapter 27 – The environment and climate change in which the change in the energy policy course was defined with reliant, above all, on renewable energy sources. Of course, we cannot, like some Western European countries, such as Germany, completely eliminate coal as a basic resource for electricity, but certainly our focus must be on de-sumption, i.e. cleaning smoke from our thermal power plants and heat. I must commend that in March of this year, a single agreement was signed at the Ministry of Energy on the construction of a new heat plant in Novi Pazar on biomass. It is a 5.8m-euro contract, giving Novi Pazar a modern heat. I remind you that today in Novi Pazar, the heat is in the very center of the city and that it uses a mule, which really pollutes the air of the citizens of New Pazar. This heat will have organic production and the heating price will be significantly lower, and will provide twice as much energy. What is very important for the citizens of my region is that a divorce pipeline project is currently being developed from Alexanderovec to connect the Kopalnik, Novi Pazar and Tutin. Gasification opens the possibility of adding another four-megawatt heat boiler to the heat plant, which will allow Novi Pazar to be fully energy security. In Tutin and Novi Pazar, the land expropriation process on the pipeline route passes through these municipalities was launched. In Novi Pazar, about 810 parcels are scheduled to be exploded, or some of its parts. In the city administration, more than 300 have already done project documentation. Given that there is no Minister of Mining and Energy here, I would like first of all to appeal to the Prime Minister, who is still the head of this house, to begin building this pipeline as soon as possible. It is necessary and necessary and will allow to reduce pollution of cities, such as Novi Pazar. You know that New Market is in one boiler, that pollution is extremely large since absolutely everyone is heating up on fossil fuels, on wood, on coal, on lube. The local self-government has done a lot, and it also makes the heat get a new source of energy, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u956	Mr. Bacevac, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u957	But, I stress, it is extremely important that this pipeline is also finished for Kopalnik, who is a tourist center, who needs it over and, God forbid, and for Novi Pazar, who is the center of the entire region of that part of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u958	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u959	Thank you. I promise to make sure we go into this project and finish it as soon as possible, but in fact I wanted to tell you a very important thing that I've been talking to the Minister for Environmental Protection, which is that we've finally budgeted in the 2021 budget for the complete resolution of the deposit in Prepolje, namely the Stanjevine dump. I remember you asking me that question several times in the previous term, both to me and to Minister Trivana. We know what the problem is. When Irene and I spoke, I must tell you that I was truly positively surprised and happy because Minister Vujovic immediately took it as one of the priorities for the resolution, so we developed a plan, budgeted. We'll close the dump on the State. We'll drive the garbage to the sanitary dump, probably in Pryboy, Irene will fix me if I'm not wrong. We'll make one transfer station in Nova Varosha until we expand the sanitary dump of Uzica. We've also been on a budget for the expansion of the sanitary dump in Uzic, but this is one thing we agreed on. If there's one thing we're gonna do, then we're gonna do this one. I know what the problem is. Thank you for drawing attention to this problem as a folk MP that we have indeed remembered it and decided to deal with this and to sort this out and to somehow be a symbolic start of solving more than 3.5 thousand of these dumps throughout Serbia. So, we're finishing this, and I'm gonna be glad to visit the Prepolje together soon and start working on this problem. For gasification, I wrote it down, I'll let you know further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u960	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u961	I am very glad that that policy that I represent, which is to solve the basic problems of citizens in this country, no matter what nationality they are, although I am Bosniak, gives results and solve everyday problems to people. There's no question that identity is important, but we're building it ourselves. In the line of my identity, maybe the most important thing is that I'm a doctor, in the line of someone else's identity, maybe the most important thing is that a religious member of a particular organization or a particular belief, but a policy that SDP is the hardest way, a political path, a struggle for citizens, a struggle for gasification, a fight for the removal of a dump. Thank you. Believe me, Novi Pazar and Valjevo and Bor are fighting the same battle and are highly polluted at certain times in the winter. Gasification is the only solution, absolutely the only solution. That's what I'm talking about for Novi Pazar, but I'm fighting for the Bath. I'll fight for Golia, too. That's all this policy insists on. Of course he's looking forward to it. Somehow with the appointment of the new minister some new energy came, but also with the appointment of new leadership in the municipality of Prepolje. They're honorable people, new people full of new energy that they are, I'll say freely, SDP and SNS, the same mirrored coalition, as well as at the state level, gave one new energy with the new minister and, behold, I'm really too pleased to solve this decades-old problem. One ecological bomb will be practically recovered, and this area will shine in its full capacity both tourism and economical and in the production of healthy food, etc. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u962	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan D. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u963	Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk a little bit about the crown, and yesterday I was talking about Dr. Kon, whom I greatly appreciate and I said I would no longer listen to him, because I saw it from Alexander Vukic, president of Serbia. Dr. Kon said in May that in June, July and August, the crown in Serbia will disappear because it will be a great temperature. Alexander Vukic didn't listen to him, so he started to build a clinic, adapt to other clinical centres, get what's called medical equipment, etc. He was not even listened to by Ivica Dacic, who went to China, when China was the only country with the world's largest number of infections and during that time period visited several other African states, where two African states withdrew recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. I'm asking the government and the Prime Minister to reduce the dosage, medically speaking, human poisoning by some experts. Over TV to hold my conferences for two hours. Let's get those doctors who treat the people, who are in equipment called sauna and nurses to talk about the crown and what it is that prevention and why someone went to the respirator - because they had a seven-day fever, and they didn't answer. Statistics on this matter in medicine do not exist and there is no medical practice, because we did not have a crown in 2019 and earlier years, so no one can based on medical practice... He can be, I don't know, an expert. Why was Alexander Wolfie doing that? Well, that's why, ladies and gentlemen, all the hospitals in Belgrade have become a hoard of hospitals and we need some new accommodation, to treat those others who have instructions for these special clinics. Do you know how many sick people can't get into those hospitals? Such people, I guarantee you, there are over two or three thousand in Serbia, so that we don't have those others dying anymore because they couldn't go into surgery, from those who are being treated by the crown of the virus. Also, ladies and gentlemen, schools, parents should give consent to whether their children will go to school, not give me consent to someone called the waist. Yesterday, that profession said - half the team suggested something, and the other half did not accept politically. Watch out, God damn it. She didn't accept it. Who got all that equipment, what money, who's got all that money? The other side, this political one, I don't believe this 50-50 relationship in the number of members, has to fight for every man, of course, and for children, but it has to be done by people. The crown must be an integral part of life and who knows how long that crown will last. No one alive knows how to carry a crown.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u964	Mr. Markovic, I'm not Dr. Conn that you're afraid, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u965	I just have one more question. No one's talking about military weapons and military weapons, just the crown, no one's talking about the Star playing tonight. Just about the crown. Guys, we're gonna mentally destroy the nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u966	Thank you. Do you have an answer for the president or is this a rhetorical question that doesn't require an answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u967	I mean, it's hard for me to give an answer. In principle, I agree with you. I think people have had enough of the crown, enough hearing about the crown, but unfortunately, on the other hand, I think it's extremely important that we keep saying that people have to be responsible, that they have to respect the measures, that they have to be disciplined. After all, not just because of ourselves, but because of these amazing health workers, doctors, nurses, their teams, nonmedical staff, who have been working hard all this year, let's see if we can make it easier for them. Those numbers are really awful. They are not, unfortunately, unexpected, when you look at what is happening across Europe, across the region. I'm still standing in the way of us fighting great. I appeal to people now, yes, I kind of know that everybody's sick of it, I know that people have no patience anymore, and I know that this is all getting awfully hard to deal with mentally. Believe me, the same to me who's been lying around all year and waking up with those numbers, that's the last thing I think about when I go to sleep, the first thing I think about when I wake up in the morning or during the night. We have to hold on. I hope the vaccine is close and I hope then we can slowly return to normal life. You're right, this game tonight is extremely important and I also want all the best for our Red Star. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u968	Thank you. (Dear Markovic: I had a question for the military minister. ) Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u969	I've heard this first part of the question, I might have the opportunity to answer the second part, I didn't know you'd have any questions for me, but since you mentioned military weapons, first of all I'd like to take this opportunity to thank those doctors and medical staff, of course, throughout the country, but especially those who work in the military system, as defence minister, and both those who work in the Kovid system and those who work in the regular health system. Sometimes it seems to me that we may forget that a huge number of medical staff are working in the system and treating people from all those other diseases, because of all the other needs that people go to hospitals for, and as you know, let's say that VMA is today a hospital that works 24 hours for every citizen of this country, for everyone. So, not just for military personnel, but for every man in our country. It's absolutely consecrated. I've had several occasions to go around them, give them encouragement, see what it is that we can do for them. I think this is a key question that connects to your question. Of course it's mentally difficult, but this is the time for us to ask these people what we can do to make it easier for them, what can we do to make it through a good approach that I think the Republic of Serbia has, we show these people that we respect them, not to say it and to be a flossule and sentence, but to really respect what falls from fatigue. I've had a chance to see and fight these people. Here, in the system of military health really disciplined, with steel discipline, they don't go, they don't complain. You can't see too many of them talking or saying anything. They usually say that kind of soldierly, cut off what you ask them to do and keep doing it. They take people, they fight it, they risk their health. You know, sometimes you have someone who can asymptomaticly pass on Kovid who came because of other diseases. We have patients who, people have been patient, waiting for this to go away, and it's hard of course to predict when it will be, delaying some other examinations waiting for it, and then when these checks can't be delayed, they come to the doctor, we also have pressure in the entire health system. I'm sure that's the way it is in the whole system, what I can see, I can look into the military that's doing it. And despite the military hospitals that have been turned into Kovid where people are really hugely disciplined and helping to get through, because that's next to those parts that are bound to be treated, the military system can boast, let me say, what once is a comparative advantage of the military system, they're organizations of discipline. Through the organization of discipline, through a solid hierarchy of military life, they help to get into that system when people come quickly and efficiently to get help and to get out, to organize their lives in one of the new circumstances as they rule in Kovid hospitals, because really difficult patients come in, and also in those temporary Kovid hospitals where they are something easier patients, which we have made out of sports halls, from halls where someone isn't meant to spend so much time. It's a really big thank you to all these people. As far as this second piece is concerned, I want to tell you that, absolutely, the president as well as the commander-in-chief of the army and all of us working in the defense system, we understand very well that this is just one phase. I support, Mr. Markovic, what he said. So, of course, I expect there as always the support of the National Assembly because our army as the strongest and strongest guarantee of our country's security and as someone who guarantees stability, I would say in the whole region, when Serbia is strong and stable, then everyone else is stable in the region. We must continue to equip our army. We have to think about the standard, I've talked to the president about it, I believe that he will look at everything we've talked about and that together with the government, with the prime minister, he will find a solution to make the army better in the future, that he has more support because soldiers have to have better incomes. Also, to continue the equipment system that we had in the previous period even more intensely, even stronger because such a solid army and solid military health as it has shown now when you see, although it of course has a great need for investment and for equipment, shows that this good, healthy part of our country's system is and how it can be on the line with the people, to be with its people and to support those difficult times when few of whom you have to address and when few can come to you with some very complex demands. So, I ask you to support your army, your army when it comes to that moment, of course, and when we talk about some future times. And how the military system will know how to get it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u970	Mr. Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u971	That there's no doctor here, I don't know, maybe there's one of you and a doctor, but I'm asking the government for an answer, since you're here not to write to you, is there going to be a reduced dose of the appearance of doctors in the media, and that now parallel to buying temperature medications with those other drugs called tranquilizers? That's one thing. Secondly, you should say, ladies and gentlemen, that professional part of the Crisis Headquarters, that we are a state based on the number of people who have the least infected, the least dead, and we have the same problem as Italy, America, Austria, etc., with them, the virus is much larger based on the number of inhabitants than we do, and parallel Serbia is growing economically. Imagine in this time period Serbia is on the London Stock Exchange. You, Sinisha Mali, should talk all the time. It should be praised by both Sinisha and the government. You know what that means, when Serbia went back to where the exchange lists of all other strong states are. The people don't know what it means, and they don't know 90% of the MPs here what it means to be on the London Stock Exchange. This should be explained to viewers who watch, to say – people, we have a future in economic terms. Why do marriages part? Because they think there is no future in Serbia, no job, small wages, etc. And when we say that there are criteria, someone who evaluates this work and that Serbia is at the very top, then these people will wait a little bit. Nothing happens overnight. Next, this Nogo, Srdjan Nogo, he threatens the entire family of Alexander Vukic. Guys, I'm not really up for us sitting around talking about law enforcement. Is there a minister of police here? It's not. He has to be arrested right now. Imagine during Tito that something like that was supposed to be done! But during Tito, you shouldn't have locked the door, the red passport had an open door wherever you were, it was safe for every man. Don't watch what they tell us on the side. How did the officers in France beat up those who wore yellow vests? How? What, they're gonna criticize me? What's going on in Germany? How does Angela Merkel behave when an incident occurs? Someone's gonna say it. I don't care what he says... (President: Mr. Markovic, three minutes. I want to live in a safe country. Apply the law. I want someone to answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u972	Thank you. Since there's no answer... (Dear D. Markovic: How is there not? Why did you come to the ministers? I'm kidding. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u973	Of course there will be answers. Dear Mr. Markovic, of course we agree that the law must be respected. I'm one of the ones who's always stood up for the strictest measures against anyone who breaks the law and stands for it today. I expect them to respond to the prosecutions we've authorized since 2013. I always remind you that since October 2013 the investigation into Serbia has been conducted by prosecutors, police have even taken away any investigative opportunities at the time. The police are no longer the authorities of the investigation, the police are essentially the assistant body of the prosecution. So the police are acting on the prosecution's orders to collect information and the evidence collected in their work can be given to prosecutors, and the prosecutor doesn't have to ask the police at all, he can collect evidence on his own and collected evidence to hand over the court, to file indictments, indictments, and to seek further prosecution of all perpetrators. We have one brutal thing here and it's not the first time, unfortunately, from the same man. And it's not just him. We have, unfortunately, one phenomenon that I have warned many times about, which is that even the family of Alexander Vukic, even his underage child Vukan, is threatened in a very brutal way. And now what's the danger? Danger is not just a threat, but what those people who do it are trying to do is make it a normal thing. It is the most dangerous thing, this silent attempt to criminalise even a small child and all other members of the Vukic family. Then send a message - when can they do it to our president, when can they do it to his family, to whom can they do it all the more? That's why we're looking for, and I fully support you here, I have nothing to add to the words you've said, I have nothing to add to that, I fully support what you've said, harsh, harsh, quick reaction from the D.A.'s office that is competent to prosecute these cases. This isn't the prosecution pressure. The D.A. needs to study it himself and see if there's anything in it, I'm convinced even though I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not going to qualify, but I'm sure there's a crime mark here, because when you're threatening someone physically, there's no doubt whether it's a crime or not, but the prosecutor needs to see it, not us politicians. We can make our own recommendations, but it's the prosecutor's job to look into it and look for action and bring in a more familiar law, as the lawyers would say, to whoever does this. Then we'll be a state that fully respects its laws. I believe this is what these prosecutors are looking at, and it's time for them to take these things into their own hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u974	Thank you. The word is Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u975	This isn't the first time there's been a threat to the family of Alexander Vukic. Since there's a minister of justice, I've never seen or heard her, and I think that's her job description, I want to hear when we're going to cut that practice and say - the prosecution won't. Who in the D.A. won't? If there are witnesses and material evidence for an act, how can they not? There's something called a judge's exception when someone's running a trial, right, Minister? There's something if someone's not doing the job and they're just reading the reports, well, he's not a dad, he's not the minister of justice, and we didn't choose you to be a dad. If you don't protect the president of the state, then what about the common man, the ordinary family who lives in the country and hears someone have 20 bulls, he sells, he goes tomorrow to rob him and take his money. Let's hear the citizens of the Justice Minister say we cut one time, and is this the last time and what you've done and what will you do in the next period of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u976	Mr. Markovic, you cannot be answered by the Minister of Justice. (Dear D. Markovic: Why? ) Because according to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure apply to everyone, including you, and that means next, you have the right three times to say what you have. The third time you say that is the right to declare a two-minute response, and the government's representatives have no right to respond to that. Let's move on. Arpad Fremond has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u977	Dear President, the House of Representatives, the Honorable Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to ask a question that I have asked several times and concerns the PIO of agricultural producers. The question is – when are we finally going to solve the PIO problem for our farmers and I would ask the question primarily to Mrs. Ana Brnabić, but also to Mr. Sinisha Malo, Minister of Finance. A few days ago when we had a debate on budget rebalancing for 2019, then at my presentation, Mr. Minister, Sinisha Mali gave an answer through which he stated that he was working intensively to solve this problem. We know well that this is an interesting issue, and we SVM MPs have been dealing with this problem for years with all farmers in Serbia who are in charge of smaller areas and who have nothing to pay PIO from. We believe that what has already been done about this issue in recent years is extremely good that there have been reprogrammes. It's extremely good that only one member in the family is enough to pay for the PIO. It is extremely good that the Working Group is formed within several ministries to resolve this issue, and yet the real question is, will we finally solve this problem of our farmers in 2021? There is still a problem related to the amount of PIO itself, as well as debts that are a major problem for our producers. Last year, respected Mrs. Brnabic, you promised that we would have a final solution in the year and you said you had consultations with the World Bank and the IMF. However, because of the pandemic, because of the Kovid 19 situation, everything is of course delayed, but I believe we will still have a chance to put an end to this issue in 2021. Farmers holding small holdings have very modest incomes and have nothing to pay for neither PIO nor health insurance at an annual level of around 100,000 dinars. The debt of these farmers to the state is more than two billion euros, which is not a small amount. It is clear to everyone that they contribute to farmers should pay in terms of income and land size and that they cannot all pay the same amounts for PIO. And those who own half a hectare and those who land on 100 acres cannot pay the same amount. What we're interested in -- when can we expect to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u978	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u979	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad you've restarted this topic. I've had this opportunity and pleasure with you to exchange your opinion about when we talked about budget rebalancing. It's very important to me that you see how committed we are to solving all inherited problems from the past. And I said then that perhaps even the biggest problem left to solve is the pensions of agricultural producers, i.e. the contributions paid to the PIO Fund. So that the citizens of Serbia know what you said, so it's a huge debt. The debt is measured in billions of euros, so that's about two billion euros in debt. Various reprogrammes have been tried, etc., but all these were attempts that did not give a system solution. One thing we are working on now in the task force, as I said with Minister Nedimovic, so we are working on a system solution. We want to find a measure that all agricultural producers can pay taxes and contribute precisely to the revenue they make. So unfortunately the revenues are related to the size of the plot they are processing, so there must be a direct connection. I promised that we would not go public before we share such a solution with both you and the professional public, so those who are expert in this, so as not to make a mistake, because this approach is a little more careful analysis before we come up with a concrete solution for me. I don't want to make a mistake, and I don't want to come up with a solution that we're going to have to change for a year or two after that. So, I want us to make a system solution just like Minister Nedimovic's wish. When we talked to the Prime Minister, so if you already find a solution, solve old debts, solve the way farmers will make their commitments in the future, but so it is fair and sustainable. So on the other hand, you knock on the open door. We'll be out soon with a proposal. I don't want to prejudge when, in order not to break some deadlines, but that's the first quarter of next year for sure, so there's no need to wait, we have to solve it next year. All the other problems we have are in principle when the PIO fund is and when the RFO is solved. I will only give you information that despite Kovid 19, despite the world's largest pandemic of crises according to the data we currently have, the PIO Fund and the RFZO will be in surplus, i.e. there will be no losses due to reduced contributions and taxes due to that programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we have made to help, i.e. the tax disposal of all employees, especially in the private sector. That's all good stuff. So these systems are now on stable feet, so they're doing a stable job, but the solution that remains for farmers, yes, it has to be found, and we're not running away from that topic, so we're going to solve this issue soon after the rebalance, if I'm not mistaken, and after the budget, we have another twenty and some laws that are very important. After that, the only priority I will have is agricultural pensions, which are related to taxes and contributions. What I would take advantage of now when I got my word, I also had a nice news story for you yesterday when we talked about signing the contract and starting building the highway "Pira" so, first 33 kilometers from Nis to Pločnik. We've secured funding, we're moving half next year into construction. What is beautiful and new news for all Serbian citizens and for you, today we have also signed an agreement with the Government of the French Republic, a construction and co-operation agreement on the implementation of priority infrastructure projects in our country. This also applies in this agreement to two projects, building subways in Belgrade, and improving the efficiency of our country's electricity network. The value of this agreement is 581m euros, and this is the basis for us to start implementing the project we have been waiting for for decades, which is a project to build the first subway line in Belgrade. As you know, what President Vukic promised and presented at the end of last year, the programme "Serbia 20-25", part of the programme includes the start of building a subway. Otherwise, the program itself is, as you know, 14 billion euros. The money we additionally invest in the budget, so that by 2025 the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros and the average pension is 430 euros. What may be more important than that, in order to complete the network of highways throughout our country, to complete the missing sewerage and water supply network, wastewater treatment plants, in order to fully rehabilitate our railways in a number of schools, kindergartens and health institutions. On this side, another promise we made, so we are starting to realise, by the end of next year we expect the start of building the first line of the Belgrade subway, and this agreement is closer to achieving that goal. Of course, what is particularly important and what you also know, Serbia is a leader in economic growth this year in Europe. So, we're the first in Europe to have the data we have now and for November of the month. So there's no doubt about it. What's a challenge for us, it's 2021, 2022. According to the projections of both the European Commission and the IMF, Serbia will hold that leadership position, but of course we must look for these sources of growth, new projects, new investments, to open factories, to open new construction sites to maintain that growth rate. I hope, of course, we have more growth than planned. It is also the metro project and the project to improve the power grid project that needs to start further our economy, to give another strong impulse to develop our economy. You can imagine for yourself how to build one metro, pull a whole series of business branches, a whole series of companies that will play their part in it. It just drives our economy in general, and that's big news for the citizens of Serbia. What awaits us in the next ten days here with you, it's a budget debate for next year. You will see, apart from the increase in wages, pensions, minimum earnings since January 1st, it is very important that we have a record amount of capital investments in the budget. So 5.5% of our GDP. There was never so much, 5.2% was this year's projection, and 4.9% was in 2019. So we go with the investments, and when we talk about them, you'll see in the budget and new highways and new regional roads and roads that we'll rehabilitate, railroads that we'll build and hospitals, health facilities that we'll make. So on the other hand, Serbia is going forward and all of these agreements, and that's the one that we signed yesterday, and the ones we signed today, are in favour of that. So we're fighting and we're at the front with a pandemic called Kovid 19, and that's the fight we're fighting for Serbia's citizens' health. On the other hand, we're also fighting for our economy. On both fronts, we fight that fight and we won't give up until we win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u980	Thank you. The word is Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u981	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. In addition to amending the law, namely the adoption of a new law, it is extremely important for us SVM MPs and to enable at least a reprogramme in the following year. It would be extremely good if the programme were to last for at least a year, since it was not a practice in the previous period. What's also very important is that through this reprogramme we allow all farmers who want to pay the principal, to pay it immediately, if they're able to do so. Of course, after they've had their interest cut off. The big problem is also the Tax Administration, which mortgaged all agricultural producers who entered the programme and who had debts on agricultural land. This agricultural land cannot be sold, can't be copied, can't even bow inside the family. There's another problem about that. For some producers who entered the reprogramme and who regularly paid those wars to some the Tax Administration did not recognise payment and did not write off interest, did not take off the mortgage, we should see, to check the situation on the ground and I think we should meet these agricultural producers, to solve this problem. I ask you, can anything be done on this matter? We think we should take care of the smallest manufacturers, we have to make different categories, as you said. According to our proposal, namely, those who land on a smaller area than five hectares cannot possibly have enough income to pay for all these contributions. I want to remind everyone that solving this problem is also in a coalition agreement between SNS and SVM. We believe that solving this problem will be good for the state as well. If we solve this problem, the budget will be filled, because right now a very small number of farmers are paying this amount and if we solve this problem, then the state can only win, because farmers will start to settle their obligations regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u982	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Minister, just to draw your attention, you saw, and the prime minister saw when she gave the speech at the exposé, that this system was from the last century, I mean the information system, so you have that in mind when making a new budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u983	Thank you very much. I didn't hear it right, say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u984	I can do it again. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u985	Okay. I'll just answer to the honourable MP. So you've listed yourself seven, eight, nine, ten things that need to be solved, so it's accumulated years ago. There's nothing, it's a challenge for all of us. But trust me, we'll be fully committed to accessing this problem, after all, we're already working on it. I'd just like to ask you one thing, every time you talk about the IRS, we all get a little more understanding. These people are just doing their job. It's not easy for them either, it's not easy for anyone, but they're also going to be part of a comprehensive solution, because I'm telling you and that's my attitude, you can't partially solve this big problem, this has to be a system solution, a comprehensive solution, a solution that will be sustainable for the next decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u986	Thank you. Mr. Fremond has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u987	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I want to thank you once again for your answers. We of the Union of Duchy Hungarians absolutely support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in resolving this issue. It is important that we make order, and the sooner we, in this system, the more important it is to look at what economic power these small holdings have, let us release payments, and it is extremely important for us to pay in terms of income, future agricultural producers contribute to pension and disability insurance. Of course, I will pass all this on to all farmers on the ground, not only in my municipality in Backo Topoli, but in some other municipalities where agricultural producers are very interested in solving this problem. Thank you again for your answers and, of course, we MPs of the Duke of Hungary Union are at your disposal to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u988	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u989	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, first question for the Minister of Justice. The indictment against former KLA members, as far as I know, has 70 pages and has not been fully published. The witness list is also blacked out, all the names are crossed. When both will be born and done, what is the plan of the ministry, is there a plan of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do something about witness protection and possible strengthening of evidence? The goal, of course, is to support the court, not to repeat the Haradinaj case, the witnesses were killed, not my finding, which is also the court's confirmation. Is the government considering the possibility of forming a group or a team to deal with it, because the public is very interested? We as a state have shown willingness to co-operate, I guess in return we can expect justice and truth, and that's finally to be sanctioned by that peak, because it obviously doesn't go into the depths. In addition, please, here, I am giving you an opportunity, for a moment you have not had the opportunity to answer the question asked by Mr Markovic – when will the prosecution respond specifically? The next question is very specific for the Minister of Education – does the Ministry of Education analyse the compliance of regular school programmes with the content of the online education system and how much is this emergency caused by the covidity of education? Another, in my opinion, extremely important question – what, in your opinion, can be the impact of online teaching on child socialization? A third question for a new minister who has been tasked with addressing the problem of underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia – will the government bring in a new programme of incentives for regional development and development of underdeveloped municipalities, which will be carried out by your cabinet? The second question, again for the first time – do you, as minister in charge of developing undeveloped areas, already have projects to stop the devastation of small communities and to ensure better living conditions in underdeveloped areas in Serbia? I'll continue in the next three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u990	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic. I apologize for not having had business opportunities before, so take advantage of the opportunity to keep in mind and what Mr. Dragan Markovic asked you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u991	Thank you, Mr. President. What I'm saying is that the Department of Justice is going to do everything possible to obtain the judgments of the people who have committed war crimes. In a particular case, the government has already created a working group to deal with the topic. I sincerely hope that such judgments will come. In the past period, we haven't had such cases, just given that witnesses were killed, missing evidence, but we as the Ministry and as the Government will do everything we can to get to some judgment. Of course, it is within the jurisdiction of the court to judge and judge. I would have just taken this opportunity to answer to MP Palma that the threats that have been made not only by Nog MPs but on many other cyber networks and the media are truly brutal and incredible. I believe the prosecution must react in this particular case. I am extremely familiar with the fact that absolutely everything in this case has been done and that this case has been processed. The Justice Department can't order the D.A.'s office to do what it can, it can only do surveillance, ask what's going on in that case. There are currently 11 cases that are live cases in court, where procedures are being conducted to threaten the security of both the president and his family, and I am sure that this will be a condemning verdict, given that some first-degree proceedings have already been completed. The ministry will, of course, give all support to both courts and prosecutors to brutally sanction every attack and threat to the security of every person, especially President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u992	Thank you. The word is Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u993	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MP, given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, based primarily on a recommendation from the Crisis Headquarters, has today adopted a regulation that treats the issue of switching to remote teaching or online teaching regarding older classes in primary schools. So, from fifth to eighth grade, also high school schools, with a recommendation that higher education institutions do not naturally interfere with university autonomy. I think it's important for the public, and thank you for that question, that we simply know that the entire educational content, this educational process, will in no way be questioned. I remind you, even before the school year began, the possibility of parents being able to identify whether their children want to attend a distance education, or online teaching, or in one conventional way, directly in educational institutions. In September and October, the percentage was somewhere between 2.5% and 3.5%, now that the decision has been made, of course, that all the contents are also ready to be worked by educational advisers and reference experts from the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. So in this sense, the educational system, as shown by a high degree of vitality in resistance to this Kovid-19 virus, is also very vital in the knowledge process. In this regard, we expect that by the break, which is also calendarly harmonised on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, given that we had two different calendars for the AP Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia practically since 21 December, if I am not mistaken, until January 15th, and until that break these older classes and high school students and, of course, with the recommendation of high school students will be attended online and in no way will the learning process be compromised. We will define those situations with one specific instruction, which tomorrow we will send to the school administrations, extremely when and if there is a need for students, if they express their desire to fix a score, to do so in direct contact with schools, but it will certainly be published tomorrow. What we certainly owe as a great debt of gratitude is gratitude to the educators, extracurricular staff, especially children and students, students who showed this high degree of responsibility and showed how we need to behave as responsible citizens and citizens of this country in order not to develop this monster in the way that unfortunately develops lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u994	Thank you. The word has a Minister Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u995	Dear President, since this is my first announcement and address to this home as a member of the Serbian government, I must begin by thanking the president of the largest party, i.e. the party that has the most MPs in the Assembly, which he recognized and accepted that together the SAA with the JS can contribute to Serbia being a modern, modern state, EU member states and I am grateful to him. I am grateful then to my party and to the president of my party and to my friends and friends who have chosen me to represent the SPS in this Serbian government, and we know that the SPS is a party of freedom, social justice and equality, and then I am grateful to our prime minister who gave me this task to deal with underdeveloped municipalities, I will deliberately not tell the underdeveloped, but underdeveloped municipalities. My ministry, together with the Ministry of Local Self-Government, along with the Ministry of the Village, along with the Ministry of Finance, with education, health, then with the Public Investment Office, with a permanent Conference of Cities, and as a team of the Government, will do everything to reduce the number of undeveloped municipalities, especially these devastated municipalities which are 19 in Serbia. Since I was president of such a municipality from 2008 to 2014, I know all the problems that we have in such municipalities, and at that time and in that government, despite my party being a member and that government, it was difficult for us presidents of such municipalities to reach a minister at all and come to say some problem in the Serbian government so that my ministry would do as many projects as possible for my colleagues, as many tasks as possible, and the main thing is to reduce the difference between undeveloped and developed municipalities in Serbia. The first steps of the cabinet of ministers without portfolios, i.e. by my ministry to improve the development of underdeveloped municipalities, will be to analyse the current situation and identify problems and the need for underdeveloped municipalities. The main task is to provide support in looking at problems and the need for underdeveloped municipalities as their solution so that municipalities are qualified for quality and efficient functioning. We differ from the challenges facing local self-government today from undertrained personnel to the lack of funds for significant projects. I'm not going to keep this home informed right now, but we're looking at the situation in all municipalities right now. I just want to let the public of Serbia know that we have 48 municipalities in Serbia as a third group that is a degree of development between 60% and 80% of the Republic average. We have a fourth group of 44 municipalities with a level of development below 60%, and we end up with devastated areas, which is 19 municipalities where the average of development is below 50% of the Republic average. On this occasion, I also have to thank the finance minister who really approved the budget so that we can develop projects this year, and then we agreed to choose as a team for next year which projects we're going to implement, but the main thing is to train the staff to write projects ourselves, and we're going as a government to help them realize them. If you have any other questions. I also want to say that there are a lot of MPs here who come from underdeveloped municipalities, everyone can come to me in the cabinet and in the government of Serbia and you can tell your citizens that the Serbian government is behind every citizen, whether they live in developed or undeveloped parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u996	Thank you, Minister. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u997	In response to the question, Mr Tonchev mentioned the EU, which is something I am concerned about at this point, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. In fact, the head of EU diplomacy, Mr Borele, said that Serbia expects its foreign policy to be in line with EU views so that our European perspective is not affected. If I understood this statement correctly, it refers to Serbia's foreign political partners, i.e. in some ways I understood this as conditions for Serbia to define itself as one side, for the EU if it wants to become a full member. This statement can also be considered a given condition that we must meet. Serbia is a free and independent state, an independent state, leading an independent foreign policy in the best interests of its citizens. Serbia certainly aims to become a full member of the EU, but Serbia also wants to maintain traditional friendly relations with traditionally friendly states and the United States and China and Russia, because the period of Kovid has shown that when it is difficult to count on two stable and secure things, and these are primarily their own resources, and then relations with traditionally friendly countries. As far as these findings are concerned, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, and there is a foreign minister. So, given Serbia's position in Europe and the world on the one hand and our national interest, do you, on the other hand, think that somehow the interests and objectives that are to be achieved between the EU that owns Kosovo and Metohija in dialogue and, say, new US administrations are intertwined? Do you expect, in your opinion, could a new US administration change the discourse of its foreign policy towards Serbia? We know and that is what the president of Serbia said very clearly after the election of the new president of the United States that we want to maintain good relations with the United States, that Serbia will respect the Washington Agreement. The question arises whether the Pristina side is ready for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u998	Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u999	Thank you. First of all, as I said in the exposé here in front of you. This is the European government, it is the government that leads Serbia further towards the EU. European integration is our strategic priority in terms of our foreign policy, but certainly. Serbia belongs to Europe or the EU, it needs and belongs to that family of Europeans. We export between 65% and 70% of our products to the EU market. Secondly, our market is a regional market. That's why she's so important. the mini seng initiative launched by Aleksandar Vucic, because it is really important both politically and economically. On the other hand, about 70% of total foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia comes from EU member states. Economically, we're practically already part of that union. Politically and in any other way, we are going through the process of integration, negotiating with the EU. So far, we've opened 18 chapters, two temporarily closed. Whether to open another chapter by the end of the year, I don't know. We're trying. I believe we deserve it. I had a meeting yesterday with ambassadors from EU member states, as well as with the EU ambassador to Serbia and their delegation, to discuss these matters as well as the progress report. The focus of this government on the European path, but also on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our economy, will be primarily on the rule of law. I expect that in 2021 we will use the best possible way to get closer. But, as you said, I said in the exposé, we stand at that point, and that is our policy is completely open, honest and transparent, which is that we will preserve and respect our traditional friendships, and above all I mean the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, other countries, such as the United Arab Emirates or India, Turkey, and that we will work hard on many, but these are somehow our close partners and we will continue to strive to further deepen and strengthen relations with the United States. On this European path, Serbia certainly needs to gradually bring our foreign policy and attitudes and foreign policy into line with EU policy. This does not mean that Serbia will or cannot keep its thinking, traditional partnership and its own policy. When I say this, it is not in any way contrary to our European integration. You also have EU member states that have good relations, good friendships with e.g. The Russian Federation or the People's Republic of China. The relationship between the EU and the United States has been rather dynamic lately, if I may say so, to be politically correct, which is why we have suffered as well. Let's say the trade war between the US and the EU against steel meant that the EU was introducing steel quotas for all so-called. third countries, including us, for over 18 months we have been really very hard to fight for our Jellyzara and for the maintenance of production in Želizara. That's what's going on with us, but it's not easy at all. I, as Prime Minister, look forward to improving relations between the United States and the EU, ending these trade wars, because this will also mean good things for our economy. When you see that in the 17+1 mechanism in the "Storage and Road" initiative of the President of the People's Republic of China, Si Gipinga participates in several EU members, Serbia is a proud member of this mechanism, the country with the most signed contracts that best used this partnership with the People's Republic of China, primarily for building our infrastructure, but also for programmes in the field of environmental protection, then you see that one is political flossules, and the other is the essence and life. So you can be an EU member and have such relations with some countries that you would say at the first ball that the EU does not have good relations with them. It is also a similar situation if you take an example of Turkey's flow where it is also involved and the programme is being pushed by EU member states. It won't be easy, but it's not impossible. What I think is most important and that is our policy, and as I have said so many times, I think it is a policy that has brought to the Republic of Serbia and introduced Alexander Vukic, which is brave and smart, which is that you always have an honest, completely open and transparent relationship with all your partners and thus build your credibility as a predictable and reliable partner and that you speak the same way in Brussels, Berlin and Paris, as you speak in Washington, Beijing or Moscow, and we do. I say, it is not once the easiest policy, but it is absolutely the best for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy of the Republic of Serbia has brought a lot of good, so we continue on that path, we continue committed to working on our European integrations. I said, almost a whole new focus on the area of rule of law, and you'll see in the first 100 days of government's work a major shift in that area. My entire team is already working really hard on it, so I expect eventually and our partners from the EU to welcome it and recognise the opening of new chapters. I hope that will happen, and if it does not, the EU has its internal challenges. It is important for us to continue working on this, first of all because it is in the interest of our citizens, our economy, our country, and then because it will contribute to our faster integrations. As for the new U.S. administration, we'll try to do what we've done so far, which is that we're trying to further deepen relations with the United States, build this strong partnership. Yesterday I also had a meeting with the U.S. Ambassador, Anthony Godfrey. We had a good meeting, discussed further the implementation of the Washington Agreement. Serbia is a serious country with serious statesmen. We're behind the deal we signed. We're not like some people who sign them because it's politically appropriate for them at that point, without any intention of actually implementing them. No, we're a reliable, credible partner and we're behind it. We'll keep working on it and try and keep the new administration in the U.S. at least the same level of communication. We continue to invest in this partnership and I certainly expect with law, yet the United States is one serious partner, not to change their policy so radically and that everything we have done in the last four years will continue to produce results with the new administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1000	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1001	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, presidents and distinguished fellow government members, the question of whether the interests of the EU and the new US administration are intertwined, I think, on the one hand, and excessive. EU interests and interests of the old and new US administrations have long been intertwined, when it comes to the Western Balkans, the Balkans in general, and in particular the Republic of Serbia. There are differences in visions, approaches are different in solving some problems, and if the new US administration is going to change its approach to the previous one, we'll see. Large ships are difficult to change their course, little yes, but what is proud of all citizens of Serbia, each of our men is that once a serious, responsible, wise, state and foreign policy in the previous period we have succeeded largely in the world, which has been generating some difficult events from our past two decades ago, to open our eyes and try to draw their attention to us and our problems in a slightly different way. Now it seems like a long time ago, but in 2013, when the first Brussels agreement on normalisation was reached, when the then government, in which I was, many condemned and attacked, then its first vice president, and present-day President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, said, "The time will come when we will call on that agreement and the agreement, and those who were thought to celebrate it, run away from it and watch how to avoid its fulfillment." I'd say it's not just foreign policy. Everything the Republic of Serbia does on both the external and internal political agenda, but absolutely everything, bears witness to the seriousness, responsibility and commitment to preserving peace and stability not only in Serbia, Serbia in the first place, but also in the whole region. You will not encounter a single statement from our state summit, from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister of the National Assembly, the Minister of Government, which can be a factor of instability. What I'm sure is that such behavior, such seriousness, such responsibility, such a true commitment to these values, which are important to the whole region, are carefully and diligently heard in every capital where we once looked forward to each of our harsh words, thoughtless move or error. Today, when it is not there, Serbia is considered a serious and responsible state, as the state with which you agree to something, you know it will be fulfilled. For many years after us, Serbia has managed to build its new reputation and its new credibility with this serious and responsible policy, firstly led by President Vukic. That's why we're not the point that goes around in regular circumstances today, I'm not talking about these difficult pandemic circumstances, but we're the point that's necessarily being visited when going through this part of Europe. The protection of our national interests and work, serious and dedicated work on the realisation of our national objectives and objectives of this government, is something that is an absolute priority. The president has already pointed out that. I will paraphrasise that part of her exposé in which she says – the European path of Serbia, but also the preservation of traditional friendships with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, all other friends and construction and the rise to some new, more quality level of our relations with the United States. I would especially like to point out what the president mentioned, and what I consider to be one of the important objectives of our foreign policy, is to pay more attention to those EU Member States that have supported us in matters that are most important and painful to us. These are our true, true friends -- both Cyprus and Greece and Romania and Slovakia and Spain. We must never forget that. Of course we're going to have economic cooperation with all those who can help us raise our economy. Only Serbia, which is a serious factor of peace and stability in the region, not Serbia that sows discord and conflict, but Serbia that takes serious care of every word and every move, such a Serbia is a better house for every citizen, but such a strong Serbia, which is developing, as I said, both economically and technologically and scientifically and culturally, such a strong Serbia means a strong Serb, wherever he lives, from Kosovo and Metohija to Montenegro, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH, Croatia, Northern Macedonia and anywhere else in the world. We are just because we are so scattered across the Balkans, just because we have passed what we have been through, we have learned a lesson from the past, we are taking care of each of our words, and according to large ones, such as the US, such as the EU, but also as our great traditional friends, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, seriously improved relations with one India and several other regional forces, that I am not particularly talking about the countries of Africa and the Arab world, these are those who appreciate such responsibility, prices such a policy, appreciate such an approach. The fact that President Vukic came to the White House to talk to the President of the United States, that our voice as a state is heard, is nothing more than a confirmation of such a responsible and good policy. Such factors, I am absolutely convinced, of the long paths affect the great ones. Whether they influence crucially, whether they influence policy change by 180 degrees, I doubt it, is impossible. Sometimes they didn't want to hear us, sometimes they didn't want to pay attention to us, sometimes they didn't want to come to Serbia, to Belgrade, and today we see that it's different. If we continue to work so seriously, I am convinced that we will be able to achieve much more. Is it easy? It's a long way from easy. I am absolutely convinced that we have a difficult time, a difficult time. That's why it's important to be as unique as we are here. That is why it is important to be one voice on those things and on those issues that we must not differ in any way, to say pop, and Bob, that, above the preservation of our homeland, our people, the rights and interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there should be no greater and more important sanctity and duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1002	Thank you, Your Honor. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1003	Prime Minister, I fully agree with you when you say that Serbia... . Now I have to do it again. [[off microphone]] I'll use my two minutes. Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1004	You're scheduled for time. At first.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1005	I'll cut it short. Once again, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia once more and repeat that I fully agree with her when she says that Serbia should continue the path that the president of the Republic of Serbia has been taking, and this is an honest relationship with partners. The second thing I said was that I also fully agree when you talk about the importance and importance of a visionary project by the President of the Republic, which is "Mini Schengen", and I said it was something that was healing for the whole region, and if there is one part of the opposition that does not understand it, but there is no need to waste time on it. Foreign Ministers, you're right when you say, Serbia today is a symbol of new values in the region and is a factor of stability. And peace and stability in the region and prosperity, good neighbourly relations, that is, priority right now, when we talk about regional co-operation. That's clear, that's visible and recognizable. Also, you are absolutely right, and that is also very important, that today Serbia is seen as a reliable, safe and stable partner. You said, and you're right, sometimes we couldn't talk to the big ones. When you get to the U.S., you can't talk. For example, in 2011 or 2012, you couldn't discuss essential political issues when we talk about national and state interests. You can, but with "staffers". We are in a situation today in 2020 that the president of Serbia spoke with the President of the United States and signed a bilateral agreement, not a trilateral, bilateral agreement between the two states. I thank you for your answers, thank you for the government's willingness to be in parliament today and I am fully convinced that it will maintain this responsible and serious relationship with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1006	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1007	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a large number of media in Serbia today released information about the enormous wealth of Brother Dragan Gilas's estate, Gojko Gilas, which is measured in thousands of squares of various properties. So, apartments, bars and garages in the city centre, but also in the wider centre of Belgrade, whose value is measured in millions of euros. I therefore ask several questions to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, the interior minister, and if not there, Minister of Justice, too. How did Gilas' brother, how was anyone in Serbia, but in this case Gilas' brother, acquire so much wealth measured in 29 apartments, bars and garages in downtown Belgrade? In what ways did he earn apartments like the Sima Street apartment in Belgrade of 91 square meters, then an apartment on Belgrade Street, and as many as five apartments in a building on Velisava Vulovica street of 127 square meters each? It is the Sava Venac, one of the central Belgrade municipalities. Then, an apartment in the Lord of Jevrem Street of 143 squares. The master of Jevrem, the very centre of Belgrade, and many other properties, as I said, 29 whose total square is 1,726 square meters. Do you know how many years it takes for the whole family to work to earn one such apartment, not nearly 30, how many years does it take? Fifty average families in Serbia, a total of 50 families do not have this property or as much property as only one man, Brother Dragan Gilas, Gojko Gilas. With that in mind, I ask, how is this possible and will the company's business be explored, especially offshore companies where Gilas' brother has management rights? I believe, Madam Prime Minister, that it is necessary to explore all these allegations in detail, because this is an ideal opportunity to see how some tycoons have become rich to the Serbian citizens for decades, at the expense of Serbian citizens, with abnormal capital and wealth, and at a time when Serbia's citizens are rapidly poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1008	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1009	Thank you for this question. I hope that the competent institutions will react again, that they will examine these allegations that, I must admit, sound incredible, that someone has accumulated so much wealth and that's not all and that's not just what we can see now. Of course, the competent institutions should say if it's true, you already have all the other wealth that only Mr. Gilas has. I think it's really the only thing we can all look for and expect, and you as the National Assembly, above all, that competent institutions do their jobs, that they're not afraid of anyone as financially and medialy powerful as they are, to investigate this and to initiate certain actions, if there's a basis for it. In order for all former officials, all current officials and their close people to be truly clean and responsible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed in the previous term the Law on the Origin of Property, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted it and I expect the application of the Law on the Origin of Property to take place. If it's true that both Mr. Gilas and his brother have all this property, I'd really like to see the origins of that property. How is it possible to acquire such an asset, not in such a short time, but in a long time? Especially since one in 10 years is a political official, political officials don't have any real big receipts, and this is all a cause for serious investigation. Any lack of serious investigation, the lack of response by competent institutions will mean that they are stronger than the state just because they possess such wealth and only because they are so media powerful, and the media are powerful, of course because they possess so much wealth and that not all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are the same before the law and in front of this state. I can't interfere with the work of the judiciary and the prosecution, I can interfere with the work of the MUP and conduct investigations, but I really think this goes beyond what an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia can even understand, what and how rich it is. I think it's time to examine and explain the origins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1010	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1011	I thank the chairman. I thank you too, Mrs. Brnabic, for your reply. I would just like to say that, when I talk about this topic, the peak of the hypocrisy of that part of the opposition is just seen in the hajika and campaign that leads against Alexander Vukic and the members of his family, specifically his brother, who is being repeatedly attacked for various squares, property, land, etc. Of course, it always turns out that there are naked lies, nonsense and fiction, and they are the ones who possess an abnormal wealth, proven, reported. That's exactly what their hypocrisy is all about. I would take the opportunity to ask some questions when it comes to the State Department and local self-government. Mrs. Obradovic, you recently invited citizens to check their data in the central population register on the e-Government portal, so what are the first reactions of citizens? Do you have any information on whether citizens are using the Central Population Register at all? The second question for Mrs. Obradovic is this. The media noted that SO Bujanovac's committees want to declare Albania's Honorary Foreign Minister Gent Cakaja. Has the initiative officially arrived at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government? The third question - a few days ago, the National Academy started training for new mayors, or the presidents of municipalities. What is the response and what effects do you expect from this training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1012	Thank you. The first word is Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1013	There's not much to say, anyway, until the competent institutions do their job. But I will tell you one thing, which President Vukic himself told me, and he said several times in public. That one sentence really explains everything, and especially now, when you see these data that we could see in the media today. That is the statement, when they speak of us, they speak of themselves. And that's it. So, these things that they insinuate for us, believe me, nobody in their right mind who's here doing this job out of love for their country, doing something for their country and their citizens, you wouldn't think that you were setting up millions of jobs for someone in your family. Why? Because people are incompetent so they can't make a normal living for themselves and their families? To set someone up to buy some land, restaurants, cafes? It's really out of your mind, anyone who takes the role of responsibility for living in this country, not because he wants a personal fortune, but because he wants to help this country, he can't imagine the things they've been accusing us of. They're accusing us because all these things they've done. All those things they did the way they accuse us, and much worse. That shows all these things we can see now. How did they run the local self-government? Here, now we see in Capca that local self-government led by all or half of Belgrade's so-called. Journalist or so-called The intellectuals worked for one or another Sabbath utility company. So, these citizens of Zapca paid people in Belgrade media to attack Alexander Vukic. We have a man who is one of those most visible columnists in "Today", has his own show on Nova S or on one of their channels, which is no less than a spokesman for the Sabbath water supply. Imagine what a joke it is with the people of Capca! Imagine what the citizens of Whisper paid for! And people like that have a face to tell us anything! And how little is it compared to what he did first among them, and that is certainly Dragan Gilas! And everything they're saying about us, that's what they're actually talking about themselves. When they talk about stealing and wealth, they talk about their thefts, what they did, what they had all the mechanisms and what wealth they had. When they talk about Jovanica, drug dealers, or coke in Morovic, those whose best friends are drug dealers talk. And everything they say about us, people just talk about themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1014	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1015	Thank you, Chairman. I feel like I'm in some specific situation, and I would like to particularly welcome fellow Members of Parliament. Until a month ago, I was sitting in those same benches and I want, in addition to this personal feeling which is much less important to remind the citizens of Serbia that the last Thursday of the month 16 to 19 hours is being realized by this very important parliamentary control mechanism over the work of the Serbian government and the new Serbian government almost did not put together 30 days, we were formed 29 days, we are not even 30 days, and we are already in front of the Serbian Parliament, where we answer the current questions about the current events. I would like the citizens of Serbia to be aware that this is a large number of MPs in the assembly hall for this first question to the government. It is very important that a large number of opposition deputies are now in the room. There are no representatives of Albanian parties at the moment. The MP Markovic asked questions concerning them and developments in Bujanovac, but there is a colleague from Bujanovac who can adequately answer and follow my answer. I would like Serbian citizens to know that the issues raised to Serbian government ministers are the result of the communication of MPs with Serbian citizens and I have received as a Member since 2012, for the last eight years, and now I know that SNS MPs are doing so, to ask what the citizens of Serbia are asking here. I got three, I have to tell you, extensive questions. I will try to be concise in my answers, but I would like that last Thursday to be the most visible programme in Serbia on the second RTS programme because we should be questioned here by Serbian citizens through the vote of the Serbian Parliament. It is a very important control mechanism to check whether we ministers, the full government of Serbia, are doing our job properly. One question at a time. I'll try to be as short as possible, but the subject is very extensive. Central population register. Thank you, colleague Markovic, for mentioning this subject. On September 1st, 2020, three months ago, we established, it began to operate this unique, central, very reliable state database. What does the Central Population Register mean? Thirteen of the most important records at this point, I would say, of the country's basic population records, of citizens. Why is this Central Register important, and why did I invite citizens to check their data in that register? I don't want to bother you that the initiative is very long, that what Prime Minister Brnabic is, and then the Minister of State and local self-government insisted on it, on that idea, and the people who were after her were working on that idea and we realized it, so now on September 1st, we're starting to do it. When we talk about 13 different records that have brought together their data here, it's a register of home books, it's a register of citizenship, records of citizens' home numbers, residences, residence records, ID records, travel documents, central register of mandatory social security, taxpayers' records, records of different categories of foreigners, refugees, an address register, so these are the basic data on Serbian citizens and this registry should serve the institutions in Serbia that we no longer go by counters as individuals, as citizens, but that institutions are looking for all the necessary data from this Central Register. What's good besides saving time? We'll save a lot of money and it'll get more practical, faster, more modern. That is the essence and main message of e-Government, e-Government. It is something that Prime Minister Brnabic has insisted on all the time, it seems to me that she has entered the Serbian government, regardless of which position she is in, and now with strong support from the prime minister's cabinet and this Ministry of State and local self-government continues to seek to realise these tasks. In several public talks, and not many since I've been in this position, I insist that we have to be a more efficient citizen service and I would like people to meet me on the street every day, and wherever there are other channels of communication, they're actually asking for it to be even more efficient. I know it's the cancer of every state administration in the world, to be as efficient, faster, more modern as possible, that the less we bother a citizen, the less he tries the chair from his mobile phone, in front of his computer, he actually solves all his administrative problems. So, all the administrative processes that are being conducted, all the requests for documents will now be shortened, by sending your request to the electronic institution to start any process for issuing travel documents, ID cards to deliver tax solutions, but I'll talk about it on multiple occasions, because the entire system of e-government and various electronic services and the establishment of e-sanducets actually needs all of us to be e-citizens, so that we use electronic administration. I know that we need time, and I know that unfortunately in our population there are also a large percentage of people who haven't even graduated from primary school, and how do we expect these people to be written in information and that they can use that e-Government? We've been thinking about all of this, but it's important that at this point we go in line with what European values are in the region and in the world, to try to establish a system, and that's why I've invited the citizens to check their data on the portal. So where can you do it on the web portal of e-Government, and for those who prefer to do it personally, they can do it on the mail counters and on the so-called. The counters, the tax counters in your municipalities, so local tax administrations. In these two places, on these counters and on the counters are specially trained workers and especially marked tents where they say they will help you to join the e-Government, or to become an e-Citizen, come, ask, they are specially trained to help you. You can't do this all by yourself from home. You'll access the e-portal, but it'll look for certain parameters and it's called very specific. I think it's very difficult for a first citizen meeting with this service to tell you about two-factory authentication or something. We don't need that right now. It's important that you look for the parameters on the mail counters and the tax counters, join in, see what's in your country's name in the records, say it's not right, you'll immediately be on that portal or here in the mail to check out and say this is not the correct information about me. A process is started where the central population register will be searched and you will be informed whether the information about you has been corrected. We need time, we need patience, but please support us to be a partner to the state in this, to establish a central population register that will make life much easier for all of us. If he hates you to do it for yourself at this time because it is a change of behavior, a minor change of mentality, think about your children who will already be offered a much more orderly system of administration and local self-government and state administration in the future. I'll talk about it another time, but you asked me about the effects of the central register. So, in addition to my call to get involved and to check it out, I'm going to tell you that since October 20th, since we officially let the central registry fully work so that people can check their data, by November 26, 2,072 citizens have checked their data. Of more than 2,000 people, we have 254 requests to correct incorrect data. So that's why some of the first ones I think are such personalally good data. The citizens haven't heard enough about all this yet, but it's our job to talk about it all the time. Not only our ministry, but also the IT office and certainly the cabinet of prime ministers who are in charge of it. It's about the centrifugal register. When it comes to the Bujanovac municipality, I will use a kind word and a specific decision to be declared an honorary citizen of Gent Cakai, who served as minister for Europe and Albania's foreign affairs. In Bujanovac, 26 council members, 41 out of all of them in Bujanovac, suggested that he be an honorary citizen of Bujanovac. I'll just tell you now and you'll say okay, 26 out of 41, have most perfectly legal. They have sent a proposal for him to be an honorary citizen and it was sent to the ministry on 20 November, whose head I am and we should sign a decision that agrees with that. It was last Friday, today is Thursday, I signed a decision today rejecting their proposal. I'll explain why. I am sorry that they are not representatives, especially Shaip Kamberi, who was a human rights activist, who is now the president of the Bujanovac municipality, I thought he would be interested in that answer, which is why they rejected the proposal. They really listed things in their proposal that I can't say aren't true, but you know how, when you don't want to tell the truth, and you don't want to lie, then you go around things and you shut up. That's where they just kept their mouths shut. That this Mr. Gent Cakai, who we have met several times in foreign policy, this and Nikola Selakovic, the minister can certainly, and as a adviser to President Vukic, met with these statements by Mr. Gent Cakai, the same man whom they suggested to be the honorary citizen of Bujanovac, said during the Kim conflict that Serbia, who was responsible for the murder of more than several thousand Albanians, for mass deportation, more than a million people, millions of dollars of damage and that these were not individual cases, but that it was directly done by the Serbian state. Should I sign a decision in which I wish to be an honorary citizen of one of Serbia's municipalities, someone who says we are responsible for the mass deportation of millions of people? It's not about personal attitude, it's about common sense. Should that man be an honorary citizen of the Bujanovite? And this is not the first time, this is just a continuation of political provocations, representatives of Albanians in Serbia. I don't want anyone to take this as any incentive for impatience between Serbs and Albanians and my address. What I want is to tell you one very important thing and you should know it. I don't know how many of you are really following the relationship in multiethnic municipalities and cities. In Bujanovac of 41 deputies, 26 Albanians formed power, up to 41, these 15 people, nowhere to be mentioned. You'll say, well, the opposition, they're not, okay, they have the right Albanians to form power in Bujanovac. But one thing you forget, 42% of the population in Bujanovac is the non-Albanian population, Serbs, Roma. Doesn't 42% of the people in the community count? Now, that's what we need to talk about. I don't want impatience, I don't want the flag one, the other, the third, let's think about numbers, let's talk about political representation. Gent Caki, I am upset when I answer this question when something isn't fair, Gent Caki has done a lot for Albanians, has united them, has helped them not to conflict for the first time, and when it was a struggle for national councils among Albanians, among their representatives, has helped them greatly. He is an honorary citizen to them, but let him be out there somewhere else. A man who wants to be an honorary citizen of the municipality in Serbia, who wants to continue the secession, what he has managed to do in Kosovo and Metohija, and to fight that Serbs do not get what they belong to, I cannot allow him to do so now in Bujanovac. I don't know what's next, not me personally. I call on you to support this idea and only rationally think about people who are open against Serbia. Should such a man be called an honorary citizen? Think about it. Another very important topic, maybe I should have tied it to that central register when we talked, but anyway, because it's more administrative and it's hard to go back to this administration after these difficult political issues, but just for a little while and I'll talk more about it in the next few days. You asked MP Markovic for the National Academy of Public Administration. It is also another event supported by the Prime Minister's and Prime Minister's cabinet personally and that is the idea the prime minister was working on as well. The National Academy of Public Administration is an institution formed to improve capacities and civil servants and officials. So officials and state authorities, government officials, officials and employees of local self-government have an institution where they can fully strengthen their capacities, learn about the obligations of the position they have come to. In national language, you have in Serbia after these local elections of 60 new mayors, new people, new ones, a good part of them, actually 60 people have never been in those positions, they have not met with this kind of responsibility of the mayor or president of the municipality, or the mayor or the president of the municipality, and we have done training through the National Academy to help them. We've prepared programs that are their daily life. You also have to think about people who have political power to get votes at the bar often being people who have not been turned on by politics, often athletes, often respected doctors, lawyers, lawyers, who have great trust in small communities and enjoy the reputation of citizens, get the right and get the chance to run their cities and municipalities. We can't be angry with these people because they don't know the system of public procurement, the financial arrangements of the city or the municipalities, the co-operation with the economy, the way youth and Roma are involved in all the programs at the bar. We can't be mad at these people, but we have to be prepared to train them. It's the National Academy. The National Academy since about ten days ago attended 44 new mayors and presidents of the municipality, of these 60 new ones, has shown that they are extremely useful to them. This time I invite the other mayors and executives from the local local self-government to address us, especially our ministry, and then the National Academy, to try to improve your capacities, to make the citizens more happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1016	Thank you. Mr. Orlic told me that Mr. Markovic would not use a third option. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1017	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, my question has been addressed to the Minister for Environmental Protection, and since she is not there, the Prime Minister can answer me. Today you mentioned, my question concerns the removal of a non-sanitary dump in the municipality of Prepolje. I know partly how far it has come, however, it is a generational problem regarding Prepolje and that part of Serbia. The problem has more or less every municipality in Serbia. It is also expressed in Prijepolje and in Priboj and Novi Varoša and Sjenica and Novi Pazar, etc., means part of Serbia where I come from, more or less all of the Sanjak municipalities. The problem dates back to half of the last century, from 1965, and all governments until this term tried to solve the problem. I am now not speaking as a politician, as an MP, but as a citizen of the Prepolje municipality. I want to thank this mandate, I want to thank you as Prime Minister, I want to thank Resolute Minister Irene Vujovic, because this is a problem for all citizens and citizens of the municipality of Prepolje and Serbia. So, there's no citizen who traveled on the highway to the sea when he passed through the Prepolje that he didn't remember that picture. There is no development of the municipality of Prepolje until the non-sanitary dump of the State is removed for all time. Thank you very much. I want to point out a great contribution, to remove politics and really speak as a citizen of the Prijepolje municipality, to people who are affected by health, to development, we cannot talk about the development of tourism, even though we have one of the most beautiful rivers in Serbia, although we can work on the development of religious tourism, because the greatest sanctity of the Serbian people is located in Prepolje. The great cultural heritage of Islamic culture and civilization is located in Prepolje, we even have Catholic deities and we cannot deal with the development of neither economy nor tourism until we remove it. I would like to stress the great contribution of fellow MP Krst Janjusevic, who was indeed, although not from Prepolje, a real lobbyist, to solve this problem, because he has, as I said, a regional character and, of course, to thank the president of the municipality, Mr Vladimir Babic, who has also just taken office and has made a huge contribution. My question, except for Stanjevin, is what we're going to do with Banjaca. Is it a cell transfer, a regional dump, a regional constituency center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1018	Samir, thank you. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1019	Like I said, we're going to start from the dump of State because, as you say, it's really an example of carelessness for decades and we thought it was a symbolicly good way to start removing a number of so-called. temporary dumps, which have been there for decades and decades and wild deposits across Serbia, which are over 3,500. Soon, together with Irene Vujovic, I will visit Prijepolje to talk to people, but also to see what the plan is and to present the plan. So, what I know, from my meeting with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, when we've been going through their priorities and plans, which is that we're going to go to the closure of the Stanjevina dump, that we're going to drive garbage to a sanitary dump in Priboj, that we're going to make a transfer station in Novi Varosha, until we expand the sanitary dump in Uzic, which has been waiting for years for enlargement, and we've now budgeted in 2021 for the expansion of that sanitary dump. It's certainly not going to go fast or easy, but I can guarantee you that we're going to finish this job. For all the other details about all the other plans, we can also see each other in Prepolje and discuss what is best and best to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1020	Thank you. The word is Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1021	I want to thank the Prime Minister for his response, for his efforts. My next question is, it's addressed to Mr. Alexander Vulin or the Prime Minister or to someone who can answer or in writing. So, near the Prepolje municipality, we have a populated place that is 18 kilometers away and called Brodarevo. So, ten years ago, a fire station was built, a firehouse that wasn't released to work until today. I'm curious, it's a really burning problem for an ordinary citizen, while a fire truck, a fire extinguisher, comes from Prepolje to Brodarev very often happens damages. In the summer months it is a mountainous area there are very dissociative fires in forests, agricultural goods, households, etc. I wonder when we'll start to realize this project. We also point out that it is very important to use the inherited problems we have in the past, as regards the percentage representation of Bosniaks in state institutions to balance when it comes to fire, when it comes to police, court, prosecution, public enterprises, etc. Also, a question for the health minister about what is going on with the new health care facility scheme and whether the General Hospital in Prepolje is a subregional centre and for the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varoš and I am also interested in the answer, we had a meeting of the Government's Crisis Headquarters, where it came out with new measures when it comes to primary and secondary education towards schools, and then we have a title in the media, one of the members of the Crisis Staff, Dr. Kona who says we are too late. It seems a little contradictory, so I think it's important that we hear the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1022	Thank you. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1023	As for the firehouse in Brodarevo, I'll check with Minister Vulina how things are, whether she can start to work, what it takes to start doing, what the overall needs are, and when I visit Prepolje we can go together to Brodareva and look at that, and I owe you the exact answer to what it's about. As far as health care is concerned, anyone can answer by Minister Lonchart. As to whether or not we're too late with some measures, well, that's certainly a matter of understanding, now I don't think we're too late with any measure. I think the situation is complex, so it's complex, and it would be complex to see countries that had much earlier and much more restrictive measures, so they have catastrophic numbers and newly ill and deceased ones. Unfortunately, this virus is like this at this time of year, we all knew, from the beginning, that autumn and winter would be extremely, extremely difficult. That's what came now, and as I always say, as Prime Minister and someone who runs the crisis headquarters, I've always tried and I'm trying to find the best possible measure between epidemiological measures, life and economy. It would have been different if this virus hadn't been there all year. We fought in March with extremely restrictive measures, but then you can see that even people can't handle it, and only the economy can't stand it. We've tried to keep things open and work that we don't think there are particularly epidemiological risks because these people have to live on something and feed their families. I'll tell you quite honestly one of the recommendations of one part of the crisis staff was that we close at 17.00 hours and everything called beauty salons, hair salons, beauty salons and everything else. What would those people who hold these salons do, what would they live on, to feed their children? Is that a place that's particularly risky? Does it make any difference whether you go there at 3 p.m. this afternoon or at 19.00 p.m. It's not the same as cafes or restaurants. So I fought as hard as I could and if I was wrong, I won't hesitate to admit it and take personal responsibility for it. I have worked really hard to think about the lives of people and their families, how to keep their jobs, their small businesses, how to feed their children, because it is impossible for you from the budget of the Republic of Serbia of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have a parallel fight with the crown virus and to give real enormous money to both protective equipment and tests. We daily now about 22,000 tests and for everything else, you can't really give that much support to the economy if you just shut them down. I mean, I wouldn't really be here if I didn't think so, and I wouldn't do that if I didn't think so, if we'd been able to find the best possible balance by now. Could we have closed everything down and made everything more safe on that epidemiological side? Well, yeah. But would that be best for people's lives, for their psyche, for all the families they need to keep living, working? No, I don't. Like I said at the beginning, when all this goes through, probably 2021/2022. For years, it will be possible to draw a line, raise accounts, and say whether someone worked well or did a bad job. I think that for now we are fighting the best possible battle, we have the best possible results as far as possible under such difficult circumstances and health and economics. So we continue to make another big request, appeal to all citizens to fight this battle together because this battle cannot be won only by the measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Crisis Staff or ultimately by the law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is indeed for the first time in the last hundred years I think, the battle that only every individual gets for our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1024	Thank you. Since the session is scheduled for 16:00 to 1900 hours, this is what we're done with, with Minister Loncar reporting, so if you agree to listen to him. Minister, please just for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1025	Thank you. As soon as possible, the Prepolje is going, it's going to be a health center, so it's going to have a hospital and a home of health, and that's something we're going to do. We're going into the process, but the crown happened, and at this point it absolutely doesn't matter, the health system has to function as one, as one. All forces are available, so that's the topic we'll be working on, which we'll be dealing with as soon as the crown passes, but that's the direction we're going. Once again, I pray for unity. I pray for harmony and to fight together with this crown both in Prijepolje and throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-26-0.u1026	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, as it has already been 19.00 hours, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary issues. I thank you all for your participation. I thank the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic and members of the government. I just want to say that out of the 24 members of the government, 18 were present at the session. I want to thank you for this and for one responsible relationship with this part of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which is related to the activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your presence and for your answers, and we'll still be here, almost every week. Thank you very much. Since I have already set the voting day, or 19.05 hours please take your seats to continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quarum for working on the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs attend the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 163 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: a total of 174 for – 166, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: a total of 177, for – 174, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Finalising vote: 179 in total for – 179. I find that the unanimity of the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting the motion to vote on the amendment and supplementation of the Customs Act, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: a total of 179 for – 178, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Customs Code. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Finalising vote: 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act. Since we are now moving to a decision on the draft laws on the confirmation of international contracts, i.e. agreements and laws governing public borrowing of items 6 to 12 of the agenda. I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement Project "Emergency Response of the Republic of Serbia to KOVID 19" between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general I am asking Members of Parliament to press the appropriate key on the parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote: a total of 179 for – 177 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 2053 (2020) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the financing of the public sector – support for the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to alleviate the pandemic of the Kovid 19, in general I ask the Members of Parliament to press the corresponding key on the parliamentary unit. Finalising vote: 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 2025 (2019) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the programme loan-energy efficiency in central government buildings, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Finalising vote: 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on LD 2026 (2019) loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for programme loan and waste water treatment facilities, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Finalising vote: 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KfW Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia (borrower) represented by the finance minister for the Rehabilitation Project of the Remote Heating System in Serbia, phase V, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: a total of 179 for – 176 did not vote - three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Majna and the Republic of Serbia (loaner) represented by the Minister of Finance for the Energy Efficiency Project in Public Use facilities, phase II, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Finalising vote: 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign exchange savings laid down by the banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, the whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises the electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Fiscal Council, of the whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 for – 178, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 for – 178, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has submitted the SPS as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the JS parliamentary group, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 180, for – 177, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPAS parliamentary group, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 180, for – 178, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 180, for – 179, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're going to the 19th agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: in total – 180, for – 178, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're going to the 20th point of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, elects the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 180, for – 178, against – one, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Allow me to congratulate Branko Jankovic on the choice of Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and to wish her a lot of success in the work. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, since there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Thank you.
