ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73353	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 65 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, I remind you that the mandate of the National MP Slobodan Velickovic was confirmed at a session on March 3rd of this year. I call upon the MP to, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approaches the oath. Please repeat the text of the oath with me. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Thank you. Allow me to congratulate you on your behalf, on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on your election as MP. Congratulations again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73354	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73355	We're going back to work. We move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Arms and Ammunition Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the opinion of the proposing representatives on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73356	We talked in principle about objections to this arms and ammunition law, but we also stressed that we think it's good, that this law will still be passed, because this law extends the deadline for the re-registering of weapons. Indeed, there has been a major problem that many people, weapons owners, have failed for, whether personal reasons, whether the reasons for the three administrations in the MUP, whether because of the lack of money, whatever it is, many have failed to perform that re-registration. We don't think it would be good to take away people's weapons, because legal weapons are safer in every sense than they appear on the black market. In addition, statistics suggest that when it comes to criminal acts committed by firearms, he has involved these firearms that are in the legal possession of certain people very, very little in relation to the crimes committed by firearms held black and bought on the black market. We fear the MUP will not be ready enough again, as it was not during this previous period, when after the adoption of this law, gun owners will want to legalise that weapon. That is why we have proposed, and all our MPs have proposed an extension of the bar for a month or a little more, that legalisation deadline compared to the two years that the authorised proposings have proposed to the National Assembly. We want to draw attention to the MUP that this business after the adoption of the law is seriously concerned, that in an adequate way they inform the public that the legalisation of the weapons has been extended for two years and that they are calling on people not to wait for that last deadline again, but to go into legalisation, i.e. filling out these certain administrative forms, that it was a problem in the largest number of cases, and that it starts immediately to complete all that re-registration as soon as possible, not to come into a situation that after two years we have to change this law again, at least not for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73357	The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73358	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these amendments around the date, more or less, the ability to speak, I understand that's why they're put up with it. I would like to reiterate that the SNS MPs' club today will support the proposal of our colleagues, this law and move the deadline for two more years to replace the armed papers. I think it's completely wrong to call it re-registration, etc. They repeat that 90% of the problems were actually made by sublegal acts that were passed after the law was passed, which were written, I repeat, because I know, I was told in the face of the ministry by people who were responsible for it, who were written two, three years ago, even the second government, the second minister, but at a time when the law was passed, which in itself, we as MPs know, is not normal. Those rules didn't apply one very important thing... Milia, can you please talk to a colleague? I know it's the end of the term, but let's go. The social role of sportsmen and hunters, hunting organisations, hunting associations, Serbia's Hunting Testament is not respected by these rules, and I would take this opportunity to take advantage of the two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior by emergency procedure, a few days to change these rules in order to make use of these two years in the right way and indeed finish this job, because if we were able to replace ID cards, driver's licenses, passports, health books, I don't see why we couldn't have armed lists that are much less and much less work, but, I repeat, it's complicated by these rules, it could be replaced in a few days. We in parliament have an informal group of hunters in all parliamentary groups, both in the Serbian Radical Party and among MPs, and even two from the Hungarian minority parliamentary club, we also have among Serbian Progressive Party MPs and all others, Joska Broz, etc. We have a large number of MPs who can help with that. Of course, the NAOS should also invite the Hunting Union of Serbia, President Cirkovic, to change these rules of procedure very quickly in a few days and to finish the work that is needed to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73359	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73360	Thank you. I'm reporting for amendments and laws, and also because Mr. Shormaz called me, because I've talked to my colleagues about these amendments to agree on certain things, because I've been here since the beginning, and I've been asking for this deadline to be extended because it's been a really short time, a small number of people have entered into the re-registration process, and I think we've now come to the conclusion that this deadline has been extended and that the law has been defined to do so over the next two years. Otherwise, the bill was made at a time when Mr. Shormaz was also president of the Hunting Union and MP and worked together here in the Assembly to pass laws. That law that was passed in the previous period I think it was better than the previous one, but it should have changed very quickly. Now we're all talking about the law here together, with this deadline extended and we have to go public with it, that in a law that currently exists, there is a need for certain things to change and that the Serbian Hunting Union is working on it together with a group of representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and all other authorities. After the election, it is expected to pass some different law, a more liberal law, to give the possibility to hunters, to give the possibility to people with weapons to be, as they say, more liberal, not to be a problem tomorrow. On the other hand, that people who deal with hunting are people who protect the environment, that we give these people a chance, because now comes the time when there's a problem with swine fever. It's an infectious disease where hunters are involved and joined in suppressing infectious disease. Once again, honourable fellow MPs, I, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support this law. I proposed an amendment where I asked once in six months the Ministry of Media to inform the citizens that the extension deadline was still, say, a year or a year and a half, not to get into a two-year situation and that the deadline was again sought. I also apologize to Mr. Shormaz for not having the intention to interfere with his work, but I've already spoken to my colleagues about the amendment. And I speak now, and many people speak beside me, and I do not say to anyone, "Well, stop it, please." Once again, I will vote in favour of the bill and I think we need to extend the deadline and change the law as a whole, because there is a need for certain things to be changed to make it a better law for both hunters and all those gun holders.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73361	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73362	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this extension of the time limit for the registration of weapons is required, as most citizens, or most citizens, have not fulfilled this obligation, which was laid down by law until March 5th of this year. We have submitted a number of amendments where we have asked for this deadline to be further extended compared to the proposed deadline and thus allow citizens to carry out their legal obligations. In particular, this amendment until 15 April 2022 has moved the date and we believe that each extension of the deadline is something that is certainly good. However, what is foreseen by the basic law and what we have indicated to you is a member of the 11th basic law, which provides that licence holders must have a mandatory medical examination every five years. What is practice in other countries is equalising the validity of the armed list, which is that health assurance is as valid as the armed list. The medical examination is mandatory when changing, or extends the armed list. This is important because criminal provisions also provide that if a citizen does not re-prove confidence in health skills over five years, the penalty may be between 10,000 and 150,000 dinars, which means that all those who do not comply with the obligation will be punished by this fine. This is something that should certainly be changed in the basic law, and that is that health assurance is just as valid as an armed paper, so that citizens do not come into a situation to be subject to such criminal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73363	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73364	I just want to do this when we're talking about a time period to say that for a short time, it was certainly not, but it's complicated by these rules that we're talking about, among other things, the Health Review Regulation. Otherwise, in most EU Member States this does not exist as an obligation to talk about it. On the other hand, when already done, it is necessary to support the proposal of the hunting union of Serbia and extend, according to a co-worker, from five years to 10 years of age, the deadline, as far as the armed list is concerned. Otherwise, for a change from paper to biometric, we could do anything for a time period, by having a medical examination of what it is now, that it's been worth 10 years, that we allowed medical examinations to be conducted in the organization of hunting societies and associations, not that people from Novi Pazar, as I have already said in the principle debate, Tutina or Sjenica must travel to the Kingdom, people from the New Prince's Republic had to travel to Kickindo to do medical examinations, when private health institutions that had been licensed, and also have today, were ready and even did so in many places until their health inspection banned them from doing so on the ground. Medical examinations could have been done on the ground and everything could have been finished much faster, but the health inspection prevented it and increased the cost of people for medical examination. Because, you know, you should travel to the King, lose your day of work, pay for a meal, lunch, whatever, and it costs you twice as much as a really health checkup, and they were ready for licensed health care institutions to do it on the ground. I repeat, medical inspection prevented them from doing so. These are the things that led to this deadline being short, and it didn't have to be. It was enough to pay only compensation for making a biometric weapons list and nothing more. That brief medical examination, that fee and goodbye. But someone made it all so complicated, I'll say later why, both training and taxes and in any other way, to say red tape within the ministries made it complicated. So I appeal once again to the Ministry of Health where it is necessary to accept the proposal of the Hunting Union of Serbia, they can do so in one day, that for 10 years it is valid, only to change the rules and to publish it in the "Official Messenger" that the medical examination is valid for 10 years and can change these rules in the Ministry of the Interior further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73365	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73366	In this re-registration process, before the police set out to measure and see who meets the requirements and what needs to be done, it comes to the fact that the constitutional rights of every one, first of all, of those people who already owned guns and weapons for many years, not to say for decades. First, that doctor's appointment. The medical examination must be carried out by each primary healthcare institution, not just certain institutions. This cannot be required by any rules, to be charged, because this must cover the basic health insurance paid by each user. That's one thing. The second thing is that this law in many of its provisions is affecting the fundamental rights of every man and citizen of this country when it comes to respecting his privacy. Before the police even consider making you a new gun list, based on this law, one officer will come to your neighbor's house to knock on the door next door in the neighborhood, if you live in his apartment it's easier, at the first door to you or above, if the house - is next door to the house and you can come to the situation that that neighbor is going to slander you, that he doesn't have a nice opinion about you. It's the first sign that something with you under quotes is wrong. The second thing that the police would oppose the Constitution again, Mr. Arsic, is to enter the privacy of the man who owns the gun by going into the apartment and looking for a particular special closet in which someone should hold the gun, and if it's a gun, because you've also had experience with guns, or that in 2000, I remember, though, it was a deaf time of night, but you certainly know what I'm talking about, so it's really amazing that in such a way they're hurting the rights of citizens. The categories of retired officers and members of the MUP have been particularly affected. That weapon was their basic means of working. When the generals who are retired need to get into the situation to go to that doctoral examination, as happened to a retired general, otherwise to a man who, when he entered military schools, confirmed super-average intelligence, a young woman, a psychologist asks him, come on, you want to fill out this intelligence test and tell me how you're experiencing weapons and such nonsense. Is it normal for us to humiliate such people? So, what you've come into the situation that at the last moment, today on March 4th has to extend the deadline to two years is one aspect, and all this other thing about the rights of people and, first of all, to release this kind of harassment of police and military members, so we're going to talk about it some other time, so that's what you need to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73367	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Stojanović's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73368	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending arms and ammunition laws. This thing's been torturing and generating a lot of our citizens for a long time. Unfortunately, there are still those who bleed for this SRS that this is her fault. The truth is quite different, the Serbian Radical Party has advocated that arms charges exist and that they are symbolic and do not pose any financial problems for our citizens. Meanwhile, various authorities were changing, but none of them wanted to cancel the said fees. Even as much as any new government has increased the amount of taxis per weapon. Today we have a paradoxical situation where people give up and a trophy weapon that they inherited from their ancestors. The reason is precisely in the regulations that brought this power. As a person who lived and grew up in KIM, I know perfectly what a Serb means to a weapon, especially to us who encourage with KIM. Since the situation is down as it is, where the state of Serbia cannot use weapons to protect the Serbs on KIM, someone has to protect them and it will do it alone. For this reason, this law should be handled with great caution, since it is highly sensitive matter. It's not about whether someone's gonna pay this amount or that amount to own a weapon, it's about people feeling hurt because they're getting what they inherited from their parents and grandfathers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73369	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73370	My colleague Filip Stojanović is a hunter and everything he said is true. It is also true that such a species is being carried out on topics unnecessary to the SRS, completely unnecessary. Otherwise, when a gun is registered, we are talking about registration, there is a majority of Member States, for example, the EU, but it is done in a different way, not the citizens are harassed but the one who sells the weapons, he is obliged to carry out all checks and he is obliged to include that tax in the price of weapons. Simply, when a citizen comes to buy a rifle, he pays everything he needs to the state, and the seller, the legal person who works with the weapon, next to the state, distributes everything he needs. You don't send a citizen to the counters, you don't harass a citizen. Why didn't the citizens of Serbia deserve to be bullied in this way we're talking about. First, they already paid a fee once they bought a gun. And now because they're changing the gun sheet, they're asked to pay their taxes again. It has to change by emergency, I say again, in these rules, not only reduce but completely abolish the tax. Another thing that is not fair, 98% of the crimes committed or crimes committed in Serbia by firearms was done with illegal firearms, which means that the owners of legal weapons in Serbia are security people. They're security people who are safe to treat their property and use it safely. It happens, we have to say, an incident, unfortunately, but much less than it happens in car accidents, car accidents and so on. Immeasurably less, so we're not taking anyone's car away, so that's not how we make it up to buying or owning a car. So I repeat once again, it is necessary to change all of this under emergency, and it is possible to change through the change of those regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73371	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that all of us coming out to meet those citizens who have not yet done this job on the change of the armed list to vote for the extension of the deadline, but the essence is not to cyclically repeat the same operation, we are extending the deadline for the replacement, or the change of the armed list, but it is essential to change everything that is not contained in the law, and it is essential that the procedure concerning the replacement of this armed list is fundamentally important. In fact, we Serbian radicals have been put in amendments-- we're moving deadlines, so someone seems to be bidding. No, but when you look at what a man should meet, which conditions according to the instructions for holding and gun safety, then there should be a much bigger deadline, because here he says - weapons should be kept at the address where they live in the space that is exclusively intended for that, and these are metal cabinets according to certain instructions. Metal closet, read it's a safe. To buy that safe, of course, it's not cheap at all, it increases the total cost. When it comes to hunting weapons, there are more rigorous conditions when it comes to holding arms. It is treated as the official weapon of the hunting association and it is, after all, said here by members of the ruling party, the SNS party. He said a man with experience as president of a hunting association. That is why we Serbian radicals are calling for one instruction to be made that will be unique when it comes to all these conditional aid actions. So, there's no harassment about a doctor's examination, no additional travel expenses, no setting special conditions from the secretariats to the secretariats, from the police station to the police station, and that's the essence of the solution to this problem, not every two years or every year to extend the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73373	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73374	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised promoter, I thank fellow Members who will allow gun owners to receive an additional period of two years, for those four years they have missed, to replace the armed lists. From what I understand, they're running two theories. We can use these two years to determine whether we are for the theory of a well-armed people or a well-armed people. I'm a supporter of the first one, because there's a theory that he's a well-armed people, a kind people, and that when citizens know that anyone can potentially have a weapon, then kindness is at some level, haughtiness decreases, etc. That's what those in their countries say, saying that every citizen can easily become the owner of a weapon. I can agree that the law has some drawbacks. We have these two years to try those who know far more than I do, and I must say that I respected this deadline, because it was sought by the Hunting Chamber of Serbia, and I think maybe the Hunting Union of Serbia. We respected that deadline. I understand colleagues who are looking for other dates, but let's respect these hunting associations, the Hunting Chamber and take those two years to rapper, but I repeat, these two years can also serve as a fundamental amendment to the law that will arise from some broader public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73375	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Despotovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73376	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the SRS' opinion, are well, and we have seen that many in this room have agreed, regardless of the ideology and political beliefs, that this amendment brings out the citizens and extends the deadlines for two years to reregister their weapons. The problem that has arisen these days and the crowds on the counters of the relevant institutions would not have been expressed from far away if it weren't for a complicated procedure to issue unnecessary documents. In addition to this, I will state that the beliefs of the basic court that the person is not being prosecuted, we have one nonsensical, not to say a harsh word, have asked for confidence from the special department of the same war crimes and organised crime, that no proceedings are being conducted against the person in that department. I wonder, and all of you, distinguished colleagues, why would this be required of persons who already possess weapons, because possession of weapons is proof that no action is being conducted against those persons, because in that case the weapon would be taken by law anyway? It's kind of a violation of civil rights. I'll list here the prices of doctorial beliefs in certain cities. From town to town depends. For example, there are between two and three thousand in Belgrade, and in Kragujevac there are, say, five thousand. In doing so, this belief will last, unfortunately, only five years, while in other European countries it is about 10 years. Also, I want to point to another illogicality, and it's weapons handling training. Why she's wanted by people who already owned a registered weapon, say, like cops and cops retired, and also soldiers. Also, this law, for example, abolished a trophy weapon, which was registered in Serbia with 63,558 pieces. Serbs, otherwise they like guns, so 923,700 pieces of weapons were registered according to the MAP's records. The Serbian Radical Party believes that due to such and similar shortcomings here, it was meant to go to full adoption of the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73377	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73378	Here, a colleague gave one, and I know a few of those examples. Imagine not going to the basic court, but being asked by special courts to confirm that someone is not being prosecuted? You know, an ant hunter can't look the other way because of a situation some colleagues have been talking about, discretionary police rights to come up with a solution to take away or not to take away a weapon. That's not even the problem with this law. It's also transferred to members 11 and 13, but that's the problem of the CAP, and every citizen who owns a weapon has that problem that someone can tell him if he's pissed off his neighbor, whether he's a threat to the neighbor or not, and that's why we're taking his weapon, and we're coming back to the nonsensus that slowed down this whole process. Among other things, the file requires confirmation that he has not been prosecuted. Why? If he did, his weapon would be taken from him and he couldn't get into the registration process, that is, reregistering, that is, replacing the armed list. He simply couldn't get in, because his weapon would have been taken from him. Well, what are you asking a man to go to court or the D.A.'s office to get confirmation? I say again, a fee of 600 or 800 dinars, a hop, a man in his pocket. Why? For what? Unnecessarily. A paper that is absolutely in the whole process unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73379	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, this law may be one of the incompetence of your authority and your regime and it shows what the laws you're making are like. This law, to remind citizens of Serbia, was brought back in 2015. So that's when it was brought in, and you then convinced Serbian citizens that the law was good, that the best possible solution, that those who use weapons, those who have permits, that they were satisfied with hunting associations, and that the law would be very quickly applied to the general benefit. However, the deadline for re-registration was also practical for the application of this law in 2019. The deadline of four years is extremely long and rarely, when a law is passed, so long deadlines are left, and it has already pointed out that there will be problems in implementing this law. The state, of course, did nothing on its part to inform the citizens of its obligation to impose on them, to speed up that re-registration. The State had, of course, data both in 2015 and 2016 and in 2017 and 2018. The state had data on how badly this law was implemented. When you came practically into extortion, when you came to the end of the deadline, then in 2019 you said – the law is still good we still claim it is good, but it takes another year to implement the law. And then you claimed that you were very smart, that you were very wise, that the deadline of one year was optimal and that with this previous deadline that stood out from four years, that those five years would be quite enough to implement the law into action. Here, we also welcomed in March 2020 and the fact is that more than half of the gun owners, legal weapons holders in Serbia, failed to fulfil their obligation under the law. Some because they didn’t even know they had this obligation, some because they were unable to meet these criteria or because they didn’t have enough money to provide everything the law requires. If we weren't lying, I think it's perfectly safe that 50% of people with legal weapons in Serbia didn't even get that weapon out of there where it's kept in the last five or ten years. These are people who neither go to the shooting range nor use it, most of them inherited that weapon from their fathers, from their grandfathers, and kept it primarily as a memory, not as some weapon that has a regular function, I said, which he uses in hunting or which he uses in the shooting range. That's all, let me say, should be the data that would help you make these commitments easier, to predict maybe different categories of gun holders and, in that way, make it easier for some. However, here comes 2020, you again propose to extend the deadline for implementing this law into action, this time in two years. And how can we trust you and how can the citizens of Serbia trust you, if you say so first – it will be enough for four years for the law to be implemented and not implemented, and then you say it takes another year and it is an ideal deadline and we guarantee it will be completed, and then again it turns out that you have no idea, and today you say, it takes another two years. We have heard from some representatives of the ruling coalition that in 2022 they will certainly not vote for an extension because, my God, whoever does not register now is bad, he does not listen to the state and will no longer meet him. You don't go out with these people, you just admit to the state's capitulation and admit that the law you've passed isn't good. If the law were good, most citizens would accept it and most Serbian citizens would fulfil the obligations it has under the law. If most citizens do not accept, and be sure that many who have made the obligations under the law are bitter and think all the worst of the law, then it is clear that if the law is not the measure of the citizens, then the law is not good, then a much better solution would be to put this law out of force, rather than a new extension, to extend it now for two years, so that we wait for those two years to expire and see what you will suggest. So will it be three years, since you haven't used it yet, you've had four, of a year, now of two, here, next time it could be three years and you're still trying to convince us that you're capable and smart and that all the laws you're making are the best possible solution, even though one law you're making five times, and this isn't a unique case, but the maltene of every third law that we have in the procedure appears by who knows which path you're making because the solutions you choose are bad. Some of them, here, I talked to some citizens in the last few days, and, believe me, some of them asked me, they were shocked first of all that they needed to do anything. One gentleman says - I first heard that the armed paper had a deadline, until now the armed papers had no deadline. I think these biometric permits are just another way to take a commission, to make you a nice profit, to turn some million euros back again, and that could have been solved in another way. You brag about that e-Just now and you say that all the records are networked, you say that everything works perfectly in the state, so here, it could have occurred to you, for example, anyone who has an armed list and who legally holds a gun, he has a ID card. Most of these people have biometric ID cards. You could put all this information on biometric ID cards and thus practically free the citizens of Serbia of a large part of these costs you impose on them. But then what's the problem? Then there would be no commission. Now, in the conflict of citizens' interests, the interests of your tycoons and those who collect these commissions, as a rule, are always the people of Serbia, and that's why you chose this solution, and now you're trying to convince us that it's good. We, as a parliamentary group, have suggested that this deadline be extended further, therefore, to be as long as possible, and we have done so first and foremost in the hope that during this two-and-a-half-year period, you will realize that this law is not good and that perhaps you too will decide to pass a law that would be in line with the interests of the citizens and which Serbia's citizens would above all be satisfied. That is why the SRS will vote in favour of this law, not because we think it is good, I have just explained that we think it is bad, but primarily because of the fact that the citizens of Serbia, a large number of them, hundreds of thousands of people who are legally holding weapons, would save the negative consequences that will come if the deadline for the application of this law is not extended, and you know that there is a threat that there are penalties, that there are also confiscation of weapons, and that at this point would be the worst possible solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73381	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is literally the last working day of this session, and I think it would be good to remind the public that we from the SRS, our MP group who acted as the largest opposition parliamentary group in the National Assembly, of what we've actually been doing these four years. I have no intention of making a summary now, the public is aware of the work of all the MPs – and of us who have been actively working here as an opposition political party and you from the authorities and those who are long gone in the National Assembly. We think it is necessary to remind the public that we have insisted for four years on bringing in the new Rules of Procedure, because we are convinced that according to the Rules of Procedure we were working on, we were unable to work well enough, because this is a non-democratic Rules of Procedure, which in fact made it impossible for MPs to perform their parliamentary function in full capacity. With this in mind, we have also insisted that the Law on selecting MPs be amended, in order to restore the possibility for MPs to make their mandate available to the political party who chose them as MPs, because it is in a proportionate electoral system the only fair, only legal and only democratic way. The consequence of not listening to the MPs of the SRS is all that has happened in the National Assembly and, unfortunately, all of us who have taken seriously the work of the MP and who know what parliamentary democracy is we are suffering in public negative assessments because there have been some things happening in the National Assembly and they are still happening today that are not worthy of the highest legislative body, which the National Assembly certainly is. It happened that MPs with their mandate, which is essentially the mandate of a political party on whose list they came to the National Assembly, walk from one political party to another, change the number and name of parliamentary groups, and today, I think, we don't even know how many parliamentary groups we have in the National Assembly or how many of those so-called. I do not know exactly, but as many as it is, these MPs actually cannot function as a MP at all, because their work in the Rules of Procedure is so impossible, or almost completely disabled. That's why we've been thinking all this time as much as we've convinced you to accept our proposals to be in the general interest, you didn't want to, but that's why you put on the agenda the proposals of Nenada Chanka, Gordana Comić, Tatjana Macura, because through this humble relationship and satisfaction you've actually wanted to please those MPs of the European Parliamentarians and these present and former ones, to show them that these next elections will not be boycotted by these so-called so-called elections. "Citizen opposition". It's bad and you'll see, you'll see it all the way through the campaign and after the election that you've done it very badly, but well, our people say -- everyone's a blacksmith of their own happiness. What we also want to point out is that we Serbian radicals asked specifically for a criminal offence to be included in the Criminal Code, where a prison sentence would be punishable by anyone who publicly says that genocide took place in Srebrenica. We also believe that this is in the general state and general national interest because Serbs and Serbia are being attacked from all sides, you see the persecution of Serbs in Montenegro, we see what is happening, that they are planting the clips of Republika Srpska and what is, in fact, the ultimate goal of these pro-Western, or western forces, the United States and Western forces. We must protect ourselves, and it is a pity that we missed this mandate because you have not accepted it, we must protect ourselves against that attribute genocide, which is unfortunately increasingly heard in our media pro-Western, such as "Today" and N1 and from these various NGOs, but here it should remain remembered and that the people know that we Serbian radicals insisted that it be included in the Criminal Code. Since you did not do so, we are working intensively these days to promote the book and scientific work of Vojislav Seselj, the trotomical book "There was no genocide in Srebrenica", and where he proved on a scientific basis that the genocide in Srebrenica was indeed not there. And he personally tours Serbia with his associates and represents that truth to the people in Serbia. Today, at six o'clock, there will be a book promotion in Sombor, tomorrow at half seven in Piroth, on Saturday at six in Sremska Mitrovica and so on throughout Serbia day by day. Furthermore, we asked for the immediate establishment of the Hague-based Verdict Analysis Institute. You didn't accept that either. It is also a general state and national interest because you see more and more information coming from The Hague that the Hague archives will be transferred to Sarajevo, which means that it will permanently disappear, and there are millions of pages and evidence where it can be absolutely certain that if a team of scientists, young people, and then also those with experience help them to take over all that material, to carry out an analysis, to remain a written trail of how Serbs were tried in The Hague tribunal for non-existent crimes, mostly. We asked Serbia to thank Peter Hanke by publishing his collective works and there we have the only promise that this will really happen until the next Book Fair, we will see if it will. We have officially asked for more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens to pass a new law on enforcement and security in order to return the executive procedure to the jurisdiction of the courts and finally to get the public executioners off their backs to the people, so that people no longer fear that they will be left without a roof over their heads because of some potential debt, which must certainly be returned. With this law that we have proposed, which you did not want to accept, you ignored more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we actually wanted to oblige the debtor to repay his debt, but also to preserve the dignity of the creditors. We have asked and we have instructed from which sources this would be possible to raise the lowest and lowest salary and the lowest pension in Serbia to at least 37,000 dinars, because 37,000 dinars is the value of the lowest consumer basket. We specifically spoke, end the funding of NGOs, unnecessary agencies, there are still a number of possibilities. You said no, too. That we're right, he's also talking about the average salary and the average basket. You boast that the average salary is more than 500 euros, means about 60,000 dinars, but the average consumer basket is already more than 70,000 dinars. You know, those two things should be even, especially when it comes to the lowest salary and the lowest pension. We repeat, we Serbian radicals insisted that it be 37,000 dinars, you in power refused it. We also asked for the change of the Labour Act, because this Labour Act was brought into the interests of employers, and above all, employers from abroad, who here the truth employ some people, but we don't have any industry here, or any serious economic development. We have power plants from large companies from abroad that come here because they're getting serious subsidies and because they're getting a workforce that's significantly cheaper than it is in their countries. You didn't accept that either. We've insisted all these years that domestic economies be given greater privileges, that domestic businesses be given subsidies, at least to the extent that you've given foreign businesses who came here, you've also not accepted it. We asked for the treatment of rare diseases in Serbia. That was enough for those 20% of the medical funds that Vukic says God's father doesn't even know where they're going, to find where they're going, to invest in the treatment of rare diseases. It would be possible to work in Serbia. By name and last name and with concrete reasons we called the ministers, from Zorana Mihajlović and her "Bechtel", Rasim Ljajic and his drug cartel, this Zlatibor Lončar, and here I have already said the 20% unknown where the budget spent in health, Vanje Udovic and the malversion with this money for the student university, and I probably forgot one of the ministers. Help Natasha, if I did, to remember him, not to make some minister angry. So that's what we did next to what we did in the regular, let's say, in the regular procedure, that we participated actively in the debate on all the draft laws, because we submitted amendments. We've been parrying you even when you misusing the Rules of Procedure put in that abnormally large number of amendments. We, as far as we are, 21, as much as possible have also accepted this game and worked that way. Whenever we estimated it was in the interest of the state and the people, we voted in favour of certain proposals. That wasn't very common. Here, today we will vote in favour of the Bill of Weapons and Ammunition because we think it is in the interest of Serbian citizens to extend the deadline for the re-registering of weapons. We will also vote for an agreement with Azerbaijan because it is a principled SRS stance. Azerbaijan, China, Russia, Belarus and other friendly countries are countries with which we want to deepen our cooperation as much as possible. We will certainly be working on all this and on many other things that are of interest to the state and people and in the next period, now in the election campaign, and after these elections it will certainly be much easier for us, we will have much more influence, because we will have many more MPs than we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73383	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73384	Speaking of the Arms and Ammunition Act, I insist that it is necessary to change things that impair the whole process of replacing the gun list, by changing certain regulations to two ministries - the health ministry only this part that from five to ten years of age goes medical examination, and most of the things to the MUP, because we all know that the change of the law itself in these few things that need to be changed one day, but not so close and fast, as can be done to the rules. We all know that the elections are coming, so the announcement of the results, then the constitution of the new parliament, well, the election of the new government, then the government's plan, so when it comes to the government's plan, I'm deliberately saying this because of those who are most interested in that change, for, of course, Serbian citizens, but above all for sportsmen and hunters. If we're already talking, I'd like all my colleagues to appeal to these two ministries to change those regulations as soon as possible and those interferences that go through the rules, but well, if that's all I'm talking about, I'm still gonna talk about the rules being the problem. As far as the law itself is concerned, there is the biggest problem, e.g. mentioned in the debate, it is the discretionary right of the police to carry out security checks on the ground of a person and that the police are making a decision, not a court, on whether someone is taking away his property temporarily, until the real situation is determined, and it can be established through legal proceedings. I already said in the principle debate that we have cases in which the court rules for the benefit of the citizen, and the police continue to retain his weapon and do not return it to him as his property. It's in art. 11th and 13, but that comes from the CAP. So we would have to change both the CAP and this law, because it is only normal for the court to make such decisions on temporary confiscation and that the court makes a decision on the return of arms and that it decides whether it is permanently taken away, depends on the crime committed, etc. This measure, I repeat once again, has the character used, and yet I claim to know examples of it, which can also serve corruption, which we all fight against. According to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting must possess official weapons owned by hunting users. If they don't have a weapon, if they don't have the right to use that weapon, they lose their jobs, they can no longer perform that function under the Wildlife and Hunting Act. If they, hypothetically, don't allow a cop to go into the hunting grounds without permission, shoot at what he wants without permission, do what's a crime, perjury, and if he closes his eyes and doesn't close his eyes, then he can lose his weapon and lose his job. It's something that can be used as pressure on officials and it can't be allowed. In addition, hunters should be allowed as a hunting weapon to have guns or guns, as far as possible in the world. First of all, it is used for defense, for security in the hunting grounds, where dangerous situations can exist, but also for something called a merciful or compassionate bullet to the animal. The explanation that it will be used for a crime, the one who wants to use a crime, he will use a brick, use his hands, he doesn't need a weapon. The gun doesn't kill, the gun doesn't kill. He kills the man who's holding that gun or the gun and it doesn't matter. It's allowed everywhere in the world. It's just not with us. It needs to be changed in law. For example, a silencer on the Caribbean weapon is required in 14 EU countries because noise, among other things, is one of the environmental pollutants. We are not allowed to use it, and in other countries it is mandatory to use it, and in 14 it is mandatory to use it. So we're not allowed. That's what I was talking about when the arms and ammunition law was debated, and some of the MPs talked about it. Unfortunately, at that time it was not appreciated. I hope it will be in the next period. I repeat once again, please, the rules can be changed quickly and all of this can be done much faster, and other things through the law through the next assembly of parliament and the next government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73385	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73386	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the SRS MPs support and will vote in favour of the amendment and addition of the proposed Law on Arms and Ammunitions. First of all, I point out that this area of arms and ammunition is not well governed by the applicable law. I remember, in my time in the '60s, '70s, '80s, even until '2000, the issue of arms and ammunition and obtaining permits for both holding and carrying was quite different. What is important, it should be pointed out that sublegal acts that apply and which have been passed, destroy both earlier laws and the current applicable law. They harm citizens who are legally, above all, holding and carrying firearms. It cannot be broken by one rule of law by now imposing that citizens with compulsory social security must go to pay taxes and seek medical assurance for holding and carrying arms. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, if you'll excuse me, I would point to certain abuses in the matter of holding and carrying firearms and getting permission to hold and carry weapons. How is it possible that a tycoon in Pancheva gets 12 carabins and a gun to protect itself? Who let him do that? And there are thousands and thousands of bullets for a firearm. There's the carabini, there's the battle kits all over it, so that one department can lead the war for sure for two months. The 12 permits were granted by a former police chief who was headed by the Panchevo Police Administration by 2012. After 2012, I can say that the current minister, Mr Stefanovic, and the current chief of police administration in Panchev, did not issue such permits. That tycoon was taken away from 12 carabins, colts and revolvers, because he committed a crime, he was conducted for domestic violence. And how did he figure out how to cheat on the state and how to break the law in a way that was impossible? With the help of some police authorities, this 12 carabins and revolvers also came to the attention of a gift contract for a resident in Piroth, a relative. Now the question is -- how is it possible to persecute citizens who have an air rifle? How can we now understand this that this tycoon has now, with the help of the authorities, given to another person and now that the other person has the authority to hold 12 carats, guns and guns? On what legal basis? How is that possible? I suggest that there have been a number of abuses in issuing authorisation to hold and carry weapons. You remember, gentlemen, that case in the King. One had 50 carabins, rifles, guns, etc. Who let him do that? That's what the previous government allowed. I can't blame this authority now because it didn't happen at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to use parallel practice. How'd that work out in Switzerland? A gun sheet and a man's permission is issued for 15 years, and there's nothing more. We now need to harass citizens and, by sublegal acts, ladies and gentlemen, resolve something at the expense of citizens. Now that I've mentioned this tycoon that's 12 carabins and a battle kit for one department's war, I've had ammunition, he gets 12 carabins, a gun, and one of our citizens in mountainous and hilly terrain can't get an air rifle or a hunting rifle to defend his cattle from wolves and thus protect his property. This guy had a friend in the police department, and this friend made it possible for him, and with that practice, he needs to stop, and it shouldn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS points out and informs the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that today the MPs of the SRS will vote to make a decision and extend the deadline and allow citizens to prepare in good time and in time for new regulations, to amend the rules regarding the Law on the keeping and carrying of firearms and ammunition, and thus we will have a regulated area on firearms and ammunition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73387	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73388	Thank you. Members of the SRS as always, and in this term they were opposition to the regime but not to the opposition to the people. That is why we have always supported those legal solutions that are in the interests of the people and that are in line with the policy of the SRS. Accordingly, and this amendment, we propose that this deadline, set for the extension until 5 March 2022, be extended until 5 October 2022. Although what remains unknown, to say one vague situation, is the fact that the authorised representative spoke several times today as a representative of the opposition party, speaking of where the problems were coming from, why it was expensive, why the fees looked like this or looked like that. It remains strange if we take it as a fact that this law, the previous law, that is, this basic law, which is now amendments to the amendments to the law, has just been passed by a party that was in power that year. It remains, also regrettable or other question that while we are saying that taxes, costs, medical checks and everything else cost more than 10,000 dinars, those who are the poorest, those who respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and about 150,000 of them have regulated a license to own and carry and carry a gun list, and now we are talking, of course, about how costs should be reduced because costs must be reduced. The question remains and regrets how will you resolve it, unfortunately remains if you fail to resolve it, and the question of how will you resolve that those who have respected the laws and within the legal period do so, how will they repay the money to those citizens of Serbia who respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73389	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73390	Thank you very much. We are certainly forced to vote in favour of this motion for a decision, because it is an extremely large number of citizens. However, what will happen to citizens who, within the prescribed deadline, have replaced the armed list, will have something extended to them, whether that deadline for which the armed paper was given will be extended by the legislator for two years, what will happen to those who have been told to return the weapons and the proceedings for its confiscation, although they have met all the conditions prescribed by law when it comes to medical examination, when it comes to confirmation that they have not been convicted, when it comes to confirmation that they are not under investigation and if they are persons who have their apartments or houses provided with weapons protection and have passed that check? When they've been through all this and paid for it, they get a call from the police department to come and carry their guns. They are then told that they no longer have needs, that they are not securely threatened and that there is no need to own personal weapons. We're coming up with a third problem. That's when it's practically taking away private property. Is that how other private property will be taken away, especially when it comes to a trophy weapon that is practically the legacy of a family tradition and family relic, in some way? These are the reasons why I believe that this proposal for amending and supplementing the law should have been made, the ministry should have proposed this, not just a decision to extend the deadline that practically pressures us to plead on this issue for the benefit of most citizens. That's what happened with the Swiss conversion proposal, the Swiss loan. Those who sold part of their assets, settled obligations, they were not covered by the proposal of the president of the state that the assembly majority adopted here and thus were practically damaged. It seems that whoever fulfils the legal obligations in this country will, as a rule, be damaged either financially or in terms of the period of application of his rights, as is the case here. Also, given that there was a debate during yesterday, I would ask you not to plagiarize my questions in the future. I asked the question – why has the provisions of the Food Safety Act been amended? It is this provision of the Food Safety Act, which, I meet citizens who have not read the amendments and additions to the Food Safety Act, stipulates that genetically modified food is without any indication of who, and refers to humans, and genetically modified food for animals, as well as food without any indication of whom or from whom, and animal food from genetically modified organisms. So it's a provision of legislation that allows practically imports into Serbia in the next period of time of food declared as genetically modified food. When will that be allowed and when will it start? Probably after the election. I suppose that the current agriculture minister, who as a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, will at the time declare himself against genetically modified organisms, when another option has proposed this in this Assembly, will now be the new president of the Assembly and will practically present with his assembly majority a new law on genetically modified organisms in which, respected citizens, you will also have genetically modified food, with no indication that it is for humans, and genetically modified food that is marked as being for animals and food without a label for which and of which is food for animals from genetically modified organisms. You will also have genetically modified microorganisms, you will also have genetically modified waste and you will have, in the third generation, the practical consequences that Professor Seralini and his team of researchers have found on experimental animals. Is it just because the then candidate for Serbian Prime Minister, and now Serbia's president, exhibiting his exposé, has announced that the four tomatoes have been genetically modified with the genes of an obnoxious animal? The next day, he made it clear that it wasn't the genes of a disgusting animal, it was the genes of a fish, etc., etc. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Shevarlic.) Just one moment, please. Or you will respect the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, who said in August 2016 in "Politica" that we eat genetically modified food. And that minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73391	Thanks, buddy. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the deadlock box is a miracle and it's driving us crazy. There's a saying that you can't explain to an unreasonable person that he's unreasonable, because if he could, he wouldn't even be unreasonable. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me read again, who knows which time, the Law on genetically modified organisms. Law - legally binding act, which is not a declaration. Spreading false news is a crime. But as long as you have parliamentary immunity, you can scare the people. And now, my God, Tito's youngest councilman will defend them from flying tomatoes and pickles that bite. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, it has nothing to do with any weapons, no money. It only has to do with the witch hunt. To read another Article 2: "No ban on placing on the market - No modified living organism, nor a product from a genetically modified organism can be placed on the market, or kept for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. "I will read again, because of the viewers, not to be deceived, not to be intimidated by various flying tomatoes, cucumbers that bite and pine trees that conquer living rooms - No modified living organism, nor can a product from a genetically modified organism be placed on the market, that is, for commercial purposes, on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is a law that was in force when the previous speaker took 62 thousand euros from the minister who was Dusan Petrovic, and Sasa Dragin, from the Stara Planina's Start-up Project, and then, when they took the money for consulting services, they concluded that there are no indigenous cattle on the Old Mountain, so only consulting services were paid, without any livestock on the Old Mountain, without any livestock. Then it didn't matter that it was this same law, then there wasn't even an advocate for the declaration, etc. When he dried up the source at the Ministry of Agriculture, when there were no more thousands and tens of thousands of euros to get for consulting services, well, then we'll come up with a declaration that is not legally binding and say -- well, we advocate something that the law already forbids, explicitly prohibits, with the aim of fearing the people. Someone at the ministry should do the following, as Sasha Dragin and Dusan Petrovic did, to say -- well, now, you know, let's give you another 62,000 euros so you don't scare the people anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73393	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73394	I'm asking the cameraman to zoom in on this. This isn't a declaration and I didn't say in my statement about the declaration. This is a member of the 5th amended Food Safety Act. So this time the previous speaker, like many times before, plagiarized my exposure. And that's not hard at all, especially when you're in a ruling party. You can plagiarize whatever you want. This is black on white. So, a member of the 5th Law, not a declaration, which defines... (Marian Risticevic: Come on, read it.) )......................................................................................................... Introducing genetically modified food, which is defined as genetically modified food, look at this red, with no indication that for humans and genetically modified food for animals and food without a label for which it is, or for humans, and that it is from GMOs and is fully specified - genetically modified animal food from GMOs. So this isn't a declaration. This is the Food Safety Act, and that's how I didn't even talk about the declaration. The declaration is something else, but it seems that the agriculture minister has been genetically modified, as at the time he was a DSS member he voted against the proposed law on the legalisation of GMO traffic. Now you obviously have other orders from abroad, and in this way it will practically introduce genetically modified food because here the legal assumption is already provided. There's only a new assembly waiting after the election and that's how you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73395	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73396	I'd also like to ask the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73397	You've wasted your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73398	... to explain why he... Why did you turn off my microphone? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73399	Because you spoke for two minutes and 10 seconds. I've said it many times - time, time, time. It's kind of a business thing. We've studied it for four years, and I hope you'll be the one to change the Rules of Procedure in the new council. Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Arsic, the Honored Chairman, some people can be helped, but they must cooperate. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read the GMO Act -- it's forbidden to traffic and grow GMOs in Serbia's territory, and the gentleman talks about the Food Safety Act that must be in Article 5. - to divide the food according to origin into what? So it says at point 6. - genetically modified food and genetically modified feed for animals, animal feed is obtained from GMOs in accordance with a specific regulation. So, according to the special regulation. He is always distracting and scaring people in the Republic of Serbia that something is allowed, so he will ban the declaration even though it is a special regulation, which is the regulation and the law on GMOs, which says traffic and production on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited. I've had enough of his daughter's tomatoes, pickles that bite and kegs that break into the living room. Guys, let's move on to the Arms and Ammunition Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73401	Thank you. The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73402	Thank you very much. So, this time, what I read was confirmed, that the defined GMO food that does not exist in the Law on genetically modified organisms, as it does not exist in the Law on War Memorial categories, is a concentration camp, which I also proposed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and here at the plenary session of the National Assembly, but is now included in the Law on the Memorial of the Old Fairings Centre, because we had the pressure of Jewish organizations, fully established, because concentration camps, as I explained, are in the process of passing this law of the largest strategy in the history of human civilization. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73403	I assume it has something to do with the arms and ammunition laws and the changes we make? National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. He's not here. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, above all, you lovers and weapons owners, I must say, and that you will know that today a law on amendments to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions will be passed, where the obligations of the bearer, i.e. the owner of the arms, will be extended for another two years, in terms of re-registration. But just so you know, the proposer of this law isn't the government, it's the MPs. Three fellow Members of Parliament have proposed this bill. There's one interesting thing here, colleagues have defined themselves as treating the consequences, not the cause. This law, namely, was passed in 2015 and I am absolutely certain that the original period of four years, more than a year later, because in 2019 extended for another year, was not at all a short deadline for meeting these obligations, but were the problems contained in this law. Because of this, those who have had weapons and who are lovers, according to counterpart Sormaz, have one shot here, and I think they are trying to disarm Serbian citizens. We are absolutely certain that the implementation of this 2015 law has been financially supported by an NGO, and those involved in helping Serbia and Serbs, then you can imagine the consequences they may have. I have one dilemma, and I agree with the finding, that is, I agree with what my colleague Shormaz said that hunters, first of all because they like to have guns and what their hobby is, they take care of, and sometimes they suffer some consequences so they don't come into a situation where their weapons are taken away. If many safe citizens were given arms and followed, of course, along with one particular procedure, we might have a lot less problems. You've seen and heard from a number of colleagues that only 2% of the crimes were caused by gun owners who legally owned it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73405	Group time is spent. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73406	I'd just like to rely on what my colleague was saying, yet to repeat some things that led to the slowdown of work and not respecting the deadline that was given for the replacement of the gun list, and, I repeat, it could have been all simple. This current health check, not the first one that was scheduled, which even the pilots couldn't pass, would also have been valid for 10 years, but also if only there was enough compensation to replace the armed list and everything would have been fine. So we wouldn't be in this situation, it'd be over in a year. Because, I repeat, Serbian citizens who possess legal weapons are security citizens, do not commit crimes with these weapons, take care of them and do not endanger others, and most certainly sportsmen and hunters. What also led to major problems and even on the ground to different situations in police stations? Let's just say, there was one way to work on this in Kikinda, in Zrenjanin on the other. It takes training to handle firearms. Of course, when you buy a weapon for the first time and you become the owner of a gun or a rifle, you need to go to that gun-handling training. It's perfectly normal, but when you own one hunting rifle, you know, unwrought tubes with two tubes, all of our citizens, a hunter man, for 40 years, never made a problem, because if it were under unnecessary discretion that was given to the police, it would have been taken away from him. So everyone, neighbors, family, husband, anyone could have reported him and taken his weapon, but he didn't. So, the man's perfectly fine, he's been using that gun for 40 years, and he hasn't made a single problem. And you're asking to go back to training, which costs again. But, come on, what it cost, when I asked people at the MUP why they were looking for it, the answer was, well, we don't have a record before 2000, who finished training, who didn't. So what does it matter to the citizens that you don't have a record? Is that his gun that he's got for 40 years, and you don't have a record of whether he's done training or not? That's not his problem. Rewrite nicely from the armed list, do that special folder that young people would say, in the program and write – a man has no problems for 40 years, we have no record of having passed it, no problem. No, but this was also used to create a job for someone who owns a gun range and then in some police administration they don't do it, but they respect the mandatory direction of the police director, who sent it, to be honest, Mr. Rebic came to the celebration of 120 years of the Hunting Union of Serbia, the minister should come, he couldn't, he had an emergency cabinet session in Novi Sad. Police directors came in front of him, promised all Serbian hunters that it would be abolished, sent a mandatory instruction to all police stations in Serbia not to ask for it anymore. One was respected, the other was disrespected. They were looking for one, the other weren't looking for one. I repeat, in the King they were looking for, in Zrenjanin they were looking for a man in Kragujevac to go to the Special Court to ask that he wasn't prosecuted by the Special Court for organized crime attestation. Nonsense. It slowed down the application of this law, but now we have the opportunity, I repeat, let's all support the change as soon as possible of the Regulations so that all of these anomalies that we've brought out here and who know how to change on the ground, and the law, of course, during the period in which we can be in the next term and, of course, those who are MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73407	Thank you. The word is Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73408	The weapon itself is certainly a dangerous thing and it is a good thing that there are certain procedures for obtaining permits, which is why, later on, to obtain and carry these weapons, because if it weren't for who knows what kind of situation would happen and we certainly are for such a thing, but at the time of proposing the law, we need to find optimal possible enforceable conditions for those who want to carry that weapon and to own it. Once again, let me say that we will support these changes and additions, i.e. amendments to the laws concerning the extension of the deadline for the reregistering of arms on the one hand, and we want to provide maximum support to the citizens of Serbia who possess this weapon and for any reason have not reached that deadline to comply, but we also ask them to support us so that we can carry out the processing of all those who did not come under the fist of any system after 2000. When I say fists, I mean legal fists, I mean the judicial system, and above all I mean Dinkic, Labus, Djelic, Pitic, Vlahovic and many others, which if we wanted to list them now, we would need some time of regular session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73409	George Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73410	Thank you. From all these discussions today and the previous days, I don't think there's literally anyone who speaks, who doesn't support that this deadline extends, and there's hardly anyone who didn't have any serious reserves on the very text of this Arms and Ammunition Act that we're adopting, both from the ruling majority and us from the opposition. So obviously there is some point obvious and almost inevitable when so different and politically and humanly different MPs around something, almost, agreed, probably not quite in general, but anyway. On the occasion of Mr. Peric's amendment, I agree with his discussion, but also with some of the things Mr. Shormaz mentioned here. So it's simply obvious that serious mistakes have been made, or shortcomings, or failures in the adoption of this Arms Act. As this happened, whether because of the blind support or the influence of some NGOs, or some who sponsored from abroad the passing of the law, or because of the proposal to be greater Catholics than the Pope, and to make the law more European, more modern, or for some third reason, or simply out of desire to impose more and more money on Serbian citizens who have weapons, and perhaps all of this had a little impact on the solutions being bad. The deadline wasn't short and it was rightly indicated here. It was quite long, but apparently the demands were both complicated and painful for most gun owners, or those who would have had to reregister during this period. Like I said, I'm not a militarist, I don't like guns, but there are people who do it, there are those who do it out of a hobby, there's a large group of people, very many people who have been professionally involved in doing it, who work in security services, who have like a gift or a trophy weapon, and now they're literally punished and like everyone who owns a legal weapon. What's the problem and what we need to take care of, and that's not the first time, when we make laws, that we often punish those zealous, the right ones and the fair ones, and we go out to meet or indirectly favor the other ones. So, it's said, and it's an extremely important data and a terriblely encouraging data, that a tremendously small percentage of the crime was committed by a weapon that has a legal owner. So, the people who have, legally, own a weapon are extremely careful about using it, and they're skilled. There are, unfortunately, tragic cases, and therefore probably these safeguarding measures are being imposed, the storage of adequate weapons. But I still find it a little unthinkable that, and we know of cases, very specific cases, that unannounced controls came to check whether weapons are adequately stored, whether they are adequately guarded and that, since we have concluded that they are not adequately stored, weapons were taken away from people who have been legally owned by those weapons for decades. I wonder if similar controls do any similar controls on those who have no weapons reported, let's say they belong to suspected groups of potentially criminal origin and criminal mileage. Whether unannounced raids or controls have been performed, in order to take away weapons for which they do not have permission. I'm afraid, very rarely, and here we are very strict in control of those who have guns neatly, weapons reported, and perhaps, behold, they haven't adequately stored it. I think that, when there are small children in the family, it further justifies the need for these checks and adequate storage, but where there are no small children it's not as bad, especially, as I said, people with weapons, legal weapons, are careful and experienced and able to handle it. A much bigger problem is these various lovers who possess illegal weapons and who are to the most extent perpetrators, and they are, in a much greater percentage, the perpetrators of various delicacies involving the use of firearms. One more thing. So, I think there's another important category that would be in this future, and an important item, in order for these future changes to be brought into account, which is that one good part of the citizens owns a trophy weapon, some of them get it for their work, merits or decades of service in some bodies or for some outstanding works of military, police, etc. It's incomprehensible to me that the same thing applies to them. I don't know how I'd feel if I were either a member of a family or that man who got a gift from the state weapon, I say as an excellent soldier or a member of the police, and now he has to, not only pay taxes on him, but he has to and must, with all the complicated procedures of checking, medical examinations, check how he guards and warehouses, pass. So it's just literally humiliating for these people. There may not be so many of them, but it would be necessary in those future changes to make an exception for these and such citizens. Not because some of them may not be able to, and some do not live easily, so they would not be able to pay for it, but simply symbolically as a sort of respect for those merits that gave them the weapons. Not to be too long, the last thing I would have to draw attention to, although MPs do know it, but the public does not know, is that this law is intended to take effect immediately after the vote and after the announcement in "The Official Messenger". It's not common, it has to be a very urgent and short thing, not to say some war danger, something that's going to cause irreparable damage, that this kind of urgency is being introduced into the work of the National Assembly and the laws that we're making. It's basically eight days, sometimes it gets a little shorter, but generally this points to some extraordinary circumstances. In fact, there was no need for any extraordinary circumstances, I end it, during this previous two months very intensely occupied this National Assembly, there was no problem that this extension, this proposal to extend the deadline, all the time it's just been done, was inserted as one item of the agenda into one of the previous sessions where there were 20.30 points. It could be found there, it would be adopted almost without debate or with some minimal debate, and there would be no need for this urgency. Because, notice, tomorrow the deadline expires, tomorrow this current legal deadline expires, and that is why it is necessary for me to literally say within the next half hour, an hour, two of these votes so that this could be announced and that it could come into effect. So, this is not going to produce any bad and terrible consequences right now, but it points to some kind of negligence of those who, I don't think right now, are proposing this one, but maybe someone else, some ministry is in charge and responsible for this or some third one, should take care of, see how the re-registration thing is, or how badly it stands, and that in some of the previous sessions, weeks, days or months, we normally vote this out, and not like this, reaching out for, I say, a very unusual and extraordinary measure of entry into force literally immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73411	The first amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Nikola Savic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a law that discusses a very sensitive matter and for this reason it is necessary to have a balanced approach here in order not to lead to more problems than this law has produced, that is, the misunderstanding that citizens have. On the one hand, it is absolutely clear that every law must be respected, it must be implemented especially when it comes to the Arms Act, but on the other hand, we must be aware that those who possess weapons, some of the provisions of this law, are perceived as repression, in the best case scenario, feel it as an injustice to them. Here, right before my presentation, I got a text message from one of my acquaintances from, let's say, the village of Berbatovo at Nis, where he literally says – Saviæ, I inherited a rifle from my father, you didn't want to help me, and now my gun is being used by some militiaman. I've just expressed this as an illustration of how an ordinary man understands this situation. So the law must be precise and defined in this area. When it comes to weapons, especially trophy weapons, those weapons that were inherited, most people today see it as a suitcase without a handle. So it's hard to carry, and on the other hand, it's a shame to throw it away. It's simply a memory of their fathers, grandfathers, etc. This government, in my opinion, should think, say, in the following way. Why not allow all those who are not in a position to hold this weapon? Well, let's set up some museum of returned weapons, so let's keep that name there -- that one and that one back that and that weapon.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73413	Thank you. The People's Messenger Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will now give an example of how it was hit on the Serbian citizens' pocket without having anything to do with the law, or even with the rules, in seeking something to be fulfilled in order to possess weapons. Namely, the law says that the weapon must be secured, closed, locked, and it is absolutely correct and so it must be. Because, you know, we've had accidents that have been happening, that children come to weapons in the house where they live, and then there's death, to death, to various accidents, we can say about it, because of the irresponsible holding of guns. Of course there are always people who act irresponsiblely. So the weapon is supposed to be locked up, but it doesn't say it has to be locked anywhere, it doesn't say it in the law. In a specially designed metal closet that's designed only for weapons, it doesn't say anything, and in the field it's wanted. You know how much it costs? Now I repeat again, an ordinary citizen who goes hunting for 40 years, who lives in the country, who has a bunch of closets in which he kept his rifle away from ammunition for 40 years, because he went before hunting to buy a cartridge anyway, because he didn't have the money to keep the ammunition on him, and now you're asking him to have a metal closet where everything's locked with a special gun chamber, with this special one, special one. Why are you looking for this? So when this check is done that we talked about, the discretionary law of the police, goes into a man's house and says, "Yeah, you don't have that closet, you can't get the gun list until you buy it, and it costs 10,000, 15,000, 20,000, 30,000 dinars, depending on which one you choose. So, where do I buy it? You have in this store and this store to buy it. That's exactly what's going on in the field. It can't and it's one thing that can change the same thing. I say again, we often speak law, law, law. Oh, it's not a bad law. There are shortcomings that need to be changed, we've talked about them all, there's always a shortage in law enforcement, but here those who have implemented this law have created a problem for citizens, and even the opposite of the mandatory instructions they received from the police directors. I'll remind you of what I said in the principle debate. One of the first things I heard 20 years ago from an official of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who has retired for several years, but I will always remember him because he gave me good advice, one of the first things he said to me – Dragan, if you want to be a successful politician, remember one thing, all politicians are October, and we who work in institutions are winter. You're changing, and we're always here. Well, you winter, I talk all the time, they've made a problem in this application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73415	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73416	I thank you, President. Given that I have highlighted certain problems in the practical application of the law in principle, I now want to affirm them or reconfirm them. Since there has been some uncertainty in the norms of the law, i.e. arbitraryity when it comes to norming some of the essential provisions of the Law on Arms and Ammunition, this has in practical terms had the effect that the authorised officials of the MUP have at times acted on the harm of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, even to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, even where we have unlawfully acted, there is no unlawful behaviour. So, in no case has the SPS Parliamentary Group come to the conclusion that the law is bad. No, on the contrary, the law also has how good and qualitative solutions, but what's wrong, it's bad that they are inaccurate norms relating to the behaviour of the relevant authorities of the MUP when it comes to the confiscation of weapons. There's volunteerism, there's maltenes, to say more than what means the discretionary right of authorized officials. Then the citizens appear to be maltenes, in the persuasive sense of the word, as victims of a single procedure that is under 1) vague, under 2) confusing, under 3) unarranged, and the question of how to compensate for damage, both material and immaterial, for all those whose weapons have been taken away? Therefore, what is not included in the bill we are discussing today should also be the reason for the future promoter, again to the MUP, so that these problems that appear in practice can be solved either by a new law or by amendments and by additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73417	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73418	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this assembly here in this assembly, and also in earlier councils, with fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have participated in the adoption of hundreds of laws, but never the citizens' interest was greater than this opportunity for this Arms and Ammunition Act. Our fellow MPs Risticevic, Komlenski and Torbica have practically expressed this bill's position on all MPs and in a certain way, here, at the last minute, we are practically preventing this problem from happening, namely that a large group of citizens, several hundred thousand of them, including myself, have a problem because we have not fulfilled our obligations under this law. Are our citizens so irresponsible, citizens who have guns? All the facts and data that we have been presenting for years and through the meetings of the Committee on Defence and Security, in the annual security analyses in our country, say the opposite, that our citizens who have guns on the licence are very responsible. It can't be said that the percentage of crimes they do is negligible, but it's the lowest in Europe and also in the world. We are among the countries where practically there is the greatest discipline of the citizens who possess weapons. So there's still a problem with the law. According to one colleague, four years is still a long time, it's much more than we are now giving this two-year extension, and the citizens, in four years they haven't, despite another extension, fulfilled that obligation. We here in the National Assembly when we pass laws often unspecified, or not precise, give principled views on some issues, and then give the relevant ministry the opportunity to regulate the relevant matter through regulations and regulations. Obviously, we were wrong on this occasion, and the rules and regulations governing this matter were not accurate, or perhaps in some cases they touched the very essence of the law, and I can tell you that they touched even the very essence of the Constitution, because some of the rights of the citizens guaranteed by the Constitution were violated. What's this about? Unequal behavior of police administrations, this is where it was talked about these days, has also led citizens into doubt. As taxes are charged, does a tax charge be paid for every weapon, even the same guy's weapon in one police administration, and in the other, as it should? One gun tax of the same type, and you know how many can be on one of those weapons lists, now that new model of a chipped gun list. Here is also one of our colleagues said – do we want an armed or unarmed people? Anyway, as long as we've got people this responsible, who don't abuse weapons, I'm up for the citizens to be armed. No one mentioned it, maybe it doesn't matter, but I don't think I'll be wrong if I say that, here, in our country and through our country thousands of migrants are going west. By coming to our country, a good part of them is armed, true, with a weapon from that D category, because we often read in the paper that in each other's conflicts they use knives, sometimes even towards our citizens. What would happen if they could get some other weapons from this group B or C? So they're here as guests, abuse and use weapons. Because of that, and because of everything else, which though the citizens are armed, if they take care of themselves and their families, they are also defending terrorism and defending crime. Many times already, my colleagues have said that this time of two years should certainly be used to correct what the MPs have indicated within these two years. Because it really doesn't make any sense, and yet the law and regulations must have a logic, that the gun list has been valid for 10 years, as in other countries, but they also have a medical examination and a health check-up for 10 years, and we only have five years. Citizens are burdened with different problems. So, they'd have to make sure they're not late, just in time to do that health check again, pay him back, or come under those criminal provisions so they can be fined from 10 to 150 thousand dinars. There, only by amending this new bill of law does the provision simply erase the possibility of citizens being punished. One of the colleagues mentioned that the law is not adequate, let me say, given the importance of two organisations or associations of citizens. We have hundreds, we have thousands of associations of citizens, but there are those that are of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia, it is the Hunting Union, on the one hand, on the other hand, it is the Shooting Union of Serbia. You know that in this eastern part of Serbia, we had a problem perhaps two, three months ago. In addition to the police, hunters were immediately involved in solving the problem, and they are important to the Republic of Serbia. That's why we don't need to make provisions that are negative and destimulate citizens to be members of that alliance. Or, for example, Serbia's Shooting Union, how important it is. And both of these organizations are raising younger generations by their actions and their rules. They're raised to be the right people. So, each ministry, that's also said in this assembly, is required to single out a number of these associations that are important for its work. These two associations are important for the Home Office's work, well, this is one thing for the Ministry of Defence, but it's important that they have a different view, that they be separated and that, in the end, they are seen through the law. These days, before our colleagues proposed this law, it was the right race for citizens to fulfill this legal obligation. I've had the opportunity to have a certain number of citizens I know, friends, offer their weapons for free, offer me other people as well. And in the end, since no one wanted to accept those weapons they gave away, they handed him over to the MUP. That's not good anyway. It says that they are responsible, but they parted from something that is material or other emotional value after all. Also, a number of citizens called me, and it was kind of funny to me, and it says, when the law comes into force, don't let it go wrong? I'm saying, if the Assembly is discussing the law, and she's going to do it, because it's totally unique when it comes to this law, she's going to do it so that you don't get into a violation and you don't have to worry about it. But it would be important for the government to hear us, too, because perhaps for this law we share the responsibility of those who brought it, as well as the Government, and that it now uses this period of two years to correct what we have pointed out. If they wanted to pass a very liberal law, to make it so, to be liberal, not to be democratic, and to actually see it as a law that serves their disarmament. With their relationship to the legal obligations that are normally prescribed by both these and some other laws, they have shown that they do not abuse weapons, and therefore, in the end, should, by adopting a better law than this and by correcting these things that we have pointed out, we also show respect for the citizens who respect the law and who, in a completely negligible percentage, have misused the weapons they had on the licence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73419	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can almost fully agree with the previous presentation. The aim of the proposal is not to violate citizens, to get an additional deadline to fulfil their obligation, but I personally have no objection to this bill giving appropriate initiatives and guidelines, not only to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but to all gun owners, hunting associations, chambers, all those who carry arms, all those who own weapons, including those who own illegal weapons. In the hands of criminals is not 95% of illegal weapons, 95% of illegal weapons are in people who are not prone to crime, but God forbid, they put away a piece of weapons somewhere, not wanting to use it unless they lose their last hope that they can defend life in a different way, their own or their families. I don't mind if we all together by myself, passing a more liberal law precisely because of illegal weapons, giving a certain deadline that should be, here we have two years now, but in those two years, we might make new changes from the public debate at the end of the law, that it's about something that needs to liberalize some period in that law for the first 10 years, that everyone who wants to enter legal flows can enter. Many of the people with illegal weapons have no problem with the medical examination, have no problems with the shootings, have no problem with taxes etc. It may be worth more to them to keep it illegal, and so I agree with some parts of the criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73421	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73422	Just for a little while, so I do, and I see that some others also see this extension as an opportunity not only to end this process of re-registration, but also to the government to propose to the more adequate or any other promoter better, i.e. a more valid amendment to this law, which, apparently, by its own content, has largely contributed to the fact that this obligation is not fulfilled until the end. Obviously changes are needed, it is necessary to facilitate the procedure, not punish those who are zealous and disciplined owners of registered weapons. Just one more thing, I'm in this pause for a little while and I've asked the general himself if all these same provisions apply to him. Yes, all the same provisions apply to any other weapon lover. I simply think that these changes should be introduced in addition to these reliefs for all, so for everyone who applies to want to have a registered weapon, but it is necessary to single out the category of those who received that weapon as a gift, as a reward for zealous service for heroic acts, for some special merits and that it is simply wrong to treat them as either a hobbyist or some tough guy who wants to have a weapon among other things. So that's one detail, it's not worth talking about right now, and I hope that the next months or a year will arrive two days of amending this law, and then I say, simply as a suggestion that we should take care of it, not punish those who are disciplined and somehow single out those who got that weapon as credit for their service and zeal in relation to those who simply want to have weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73423	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will repeat one thing, that the law has certain shortcomings, I have already spoken about it and they can be quickly removed, but the procedure for changing the law is such that we probably won't be able to, perhaps by the end of this year, just somewhere, if the new government puts in the plan and the law change program at all. So we need to be realistic about telling citizens things that are what they are, but that's why the rules I'm talking about and applying can change in the next few days. Let us send this message from the National Assembly that shows that it works in the interests of the citizens, that it can be resolved very quickly, assisted, and the other law anomalies that have proved to be applied will change in the next assembly of parliament, the next government, of course, if they have listened to this good debate that lasted two days. I repeat again, unfortunately, first of all in these rules, not even when the law was changed, so the MUP respected at the time of the law of the Hunting Union of Serbia. It asked for objections, we made some 14 remarks immediately in the working version, before the adoption of the draft law in the government, and then in parliament the adoption of laws. Well, she also accepted a few amendments the MPs submitted. It couldn't have been changed this part of discretionary law, I repeat, because it's in the second law, the CAP, which has never been delivered to us here to change that. It just had to be passed into this law, so I'm saying it should be. But what the rules did not respect was that it was sad, they did not respect the importance of Serbia's Shooting Union. I now wish on behalf of the SNS MPs' club to congratulate Serbia's Shooting Union and all our representatives who have won gold medals in the previous few days at the European Championship again for Serbia, for our colors, for our flag and for a few more medals at the European Championship. These rules were not well respected by a hunting organization. We've seen this example of the Malcani Berberin that a thousand hunters in eastern Serbia have sought along with the police, but it's not all men hunters don't just go hunting. Hunters go hunting several weekends a year as scheduled but 365 days a year they take care of their hunting grounds. They care about the environment. Remember a few years ago when the Danube was frozen, only hunters, and not some other animal protection associations, for example, but only Serbia's hunters from Novi Sad to Đerdapa were carrying food for birds in the Danube, when the Danube was frozen. No one was taking out food at the time, just hunters and helping. The hunters feed the game. They're hunters of pure hunting ground. Hunters only know where and when one plastic bottle is thrown. They know exactly where the wild dumps are. When we talk so much about the environment, hunters have one role that can help the whole country clean up. They know whether to cut the forest professionally or not, believe it or not, because we didn't lose weight, let's say from central Serbia, because the hunters caught it, and it's in Bosnia, it's in Kosovo and Metohija, but it's gone because they didn't cut the woods to the best. That's what those of you who graduated from the Forest College know, and they're supposed to be looking for peace, so he was upset in another way. So, regardless of the attacks on them, hunters have a positive function for our society, and they should have been followed by this law, and I hope that they will almost come into the process and changes and additions to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, they should have been respected in this way. I say once again that it is a good thing that the entire Assembly will vote for this except for those who do not come to the Assembly on no matter, nor on this matter which is important for our citizens who boycott the work of parliament, such as Boška Obradovic, and call for weapons, are calling for a coup... But he, man, I think that first he should deal with the prosecution, not if some 70-year-old hunter of mine has a metal closet or keeps a wooden closet gun, and this guy can slap whatever he wants in public and nothing. So the man calls for a coup. Go ahead, take him down a little bit on the hot chair, have him answer a few questions. What did he mean by that? What, because he's a people's messenger, so he can beat it, that kind of nonsense, that kind of nonsense, that he's harassing the public. So, they're not even these two days here, they didn't come to the respected citizens of Serbia and for this problem they have. The Serbian Progressive Party is openly talking about the problem even though it is the majority. Where are you gentlemen? You're not here. You're calling for a coup. That's terrible. Again, I thank the National Assembly and thank all my colleagues for supporting this amendment submitted by counterpart Marijan Risticevic. Thank him especially in front of everyone. But again, this isn't the end of business. I ask the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior to change the rules immediately to help our citizens on the basis of the debate in parliament, and the law will, of course, be taken care of by the next assembly of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73425	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73426	Thank you. Since the debate is somewhat wider, and everyone knows that the intensity of the promoter was to meet the people. So, the fact is that a lot of people, a lot of our citizens, are left not to finish the job, and all deadlines expire tomorrow, and a lot of people need to continue to resolve their questions about weapons and proper documentation. The essence of the bill is to get people to meet again. Of course, as it can often be in the National Assembly, the case becomes a broader debate and then the law is discussed in general, including other laws, including other sessions, and everything else, except the bill. First of all, I wanted to ask Ambassador Ševarlic, who speaks here, among other things, accused us from the Serbian Progressive Party that we were genetically modified, so immediately came out and there is no way to return to the hall, and I wanted to ask him, but there is, as far as I can see, Mr Vukadinovic, you are now coalition partners, as I understand it, and you have announced a joint election date, so if you would be kind enough to pass on my question, and you can answer it, too, and that would not be bad either. If he wants to talk about everything and everything, except the agenda, except for our proposal aimed at helping the people, if he has time to deal with everything else, how can he not find a single word to say on the subject of calling for a coup in Serbia? Here, this is what Mr. Shormaz mentioned, and it was certainly not heard of by Mr. Ševarlic for the first time, a minute ago when he mentioned it, neither you nor anyone else. Everyone knows that in this National Assembly yesterday, not in the hall, but in the hall where the journalists are gathering, Bosko Obradovic came and invited a man not blinking to raise the army, to raise the police, to carry out a coup until the president is in the country, to take over the government, and I suppose to isolate him, send him away, I don't know where and then we have a civil war here. Is that right? This was described by Bosko Obradovic, which these other Gilas dikes as some wonderful and wonderful solution that will bring happiness to everyone in this country. Now, since he said it in the National Assembly and since that is the subject yesterday, last night and today, how do those who have time not to find everything and everything they're dealing with in order to say a single word on the subject, do they possibly agree or condemn it? It can only condemn any decent man in this country, to say that it is absolutely unacceptable. What it looks like to call literally civil war, to call upon bloodshed, to dream that anything in Serbia will be well. Who? To them, Gilasu, Djolaku, Miskovic, Bosko theirs, who will be well served if anything in this country is regulated or solved? Of course it's absolutely unacceptable. Why don't you find it important to mention it in any way? So that was my question, first of all, for Chevarlic, but I don't mind, so can you, since you're now coalition partners. No one was advertised on that side when Bosko Obradovic began his racist campaign against migrants, the terrible migrants we should probably clean off the face of the country when he made his branded truck to promote a boycott, and in fact promote his fascist and racist ideology. And it doesn't matter at all that they didn't have the courtesy of dealing with this issue all those who settled in and said yes, we're shoulder to shoulder with Bosca Obradovic. That, to remind you, is what they did personally to Dragan Gilas, so he said openly - in this is what Bosko and I are in. The two of them are one thing. So, when Bosko speaks, Gilas speaks. When Bosko speaks, says Gilas' best man, Mladen. When Bosko speaks, everyone else who accepts to stand side by side. And let's not be a problem that they didn't find fit for these questions, back then, and then it was about time, those of the Democratic Party, the foreign, the so-called great liberals, the great Europeans, the great fighters for the highest standards in the domain of human rights, not to deal with the fact that they are now defacto in the coalition, and what defacto represents them, in their name says one xenophobia, one fascist, one racist, one racist. If these things were dealt with in time, we probably wouldn't have come into a situation where on their behalf this same fascist, Bosko Obradovic, comes here yesterday, stands in front of the press, and now everyone thinks they'll continue their usual tyranny against migrants, and he takes and excuses - I call the army and the police. I can read you exactly what that sounded like. So, to execute the coup, to overthrow the traitor from power and preserve the security of the state in the new migrant crisis. He spoke of Alexander Vukic, the elected President of the Republic, of the man behind whom the absolute majority of the people in this country stood at the moment when we held the elections, to remind you, who had one three times as many votes as everyone else combined. So everything else is to add, one side to put, if he had three or four times as many. And now Bosko Obradovic is coming here, speaking for those who have tolerated him everything else, why not tolerate him and this, right? And this is what they agree with. If we're going to talk about everything and everything, then what's four tomatoes, what's a leaf fish, and if one of us is genetically modified. Come on, set yourselves up for this. Now, why don't you tell us what you think about it, Ševarlic, feel free, find someone third, it doesn't matter, because if something matters to you that we want to help the people and that these deadlines move, it doesn't have to be important, but if it's important for the people, let's see if this should be an orderly country, a decent country, a country that keeps making sure that its peace and its stability keeps working on, that it can develop further, that we can strengthen our economy further when we've already preserved it, then we've improved and strengthened it significantly in relation to the time of the tycoon and their fascists, their bats, so that we can raise the standard now that we've already raised it significantly in relation to the tycoon and their fascists and their bats, or we need to destroy it all ourselves, and we need to destroy ourselves in some kind of civil war, armed conflict or military war or pupulation? It is a question to which all those who accept that they stand side by side, call on them to destroy institutions in this country, or at least if they want to deal with politics in Serbia and think they have more important issues, to be aware of the situation, to be aware of the moment and to be completely clear of this now, today, there is no more important issue. Well, let's hear who's who and which side. As far as we're concerned, it's perfectly clear, we'll always be for that Serbia who takes care of its children, of its future, which means that the Serbia who runs the business of making sure that no one's head hair is missing, that we keep others as our own because it's all ours, and that's what we'll always be able to condemn. And let's hear what the others have to say about it, for example for Shevarlic if he remembers where the National Assembly is during the lunch break or something after that, or you who cooperate with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73427	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73428	Mr. Orlic, I didn't think I'd go on, that's that I'd finally get a chance to say something else. You've obviously estimated that politically at this point you're responding to the subject of setting up... I'm not running away from it. I am sorry that there was no longer a chance during the previous period to discuss open and unpleasant topics and things in which we differ. You asked Professor. Chevrica, he's not here right now, but then you passed the question to me. I'm not responsible for anyone, everyone's responsible for themselves, but... yes, with Professor. I have an understanding and a co-operation. We worked well together in the previous period, agreed on many things, but each has some topics that are more relevant and more understood. He understands more about GMOs, agriculture and the like. You took the opportunity to actually invite part of the opposition to comment on Bosko Obradovica and I immediately tell you, I heard it from the media, I didn't see it in person. Of course I do not agree with that statement and I have no problem, as well as with any other moves, but I must admit, I have to say that I do not agree with the atmosphere that has been governed here by the ruling majority of all these years in parliament, with the honour of exceptions, but very often very ugly and rudely speaking about the representatives of the opposition, calling them the ugliest names. So, if I don't go back in time, I'm gonna take a look at yesterday's note. It's said, the yellow tycoon thief's company. That's said. It's routine, almost without a fence, without a dawn, as usual. Not to mention the epithets all of the opposition's representatives receive in a row. This one's the mob, this one's what, that one's the one. So that bitter speech, that hate speech is something, I agree, which hurts this society, especially when it comes out of the box and I condemn it from either side. Just don't act like you're innocent, and I'm saying I have no problem condemning what he just said, as the media reported, Mr. Bosko Obradovic. I don't think the atmosphere of coups is good, it's not good, it's not good, but I also don't think we can say that it's not enough, or we have to agree, because the space of this National Assembly isn't used enough to lead as polite dialogue between non-insects, but people who care about the common good. It is missed and I hope that in the years to come, and the next meeting of the Assembly it will be as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73429	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73430	It's good, Mr. Vukadinovic, for accepting some sort of answer. Otherwise, just so you know, I didn't mention you just because you said that you and Chevarlic would be together in the election of some, I wish you luck, of course, like everyone else, I couldn't be clear what you could think about it. You know why? Because I remember the day Bosko Obradovic and Ivan Kostic attacked here in an attempt to provoke SNS MPs. Remember when they came to the chair table here, without permission, of course, and waved at those banners in an attempt to cause an incident at a time when there was a crisis in the Montenegrin parliament, to show that the problem is not what is happening in Montenegro, not what their authorities are doing in an attempt to force a law deeply unfair towards the Serb people in Montenegro, but that the problem is, simply, Serbs, to show that there are problems and that they will make the news and the House of National Assembly – here, the Assembly of Serbs, in Belgrade, as well as Podgorica, there are problems. Then, may I remind you, you were delighted with their diversional action, I do not know what it was supposed to represent, for you have welcomed them in passing. Well, it wasn't just SNS MPs who saw it. It was right there at the pass and Marijan Risticevic when it happened and we talked to each other – did you see what was happening and what this looks like? I am very curious whether this time, too, you believe that according to the system "good job, Emperor, all honor" they did something smart when yesterday they called for the army and the police to rise up, carry out a coup and imprison Alexander Vukic on his return to the country? That's what I had to ask you. Try to transfer responsibility to us for what they call, to tycoons and thieves and fascists, because they are, and what they say themselves, that what they call for civil war, what they call for bloodshed, to transfer responsibility to us in words – there was no good atmosphere here, you in most of them did not choose words, we told you many times, and if we need to explain it once again, those are the words they said about themselves. Did you read that financial report in which the DS people themselves say during Gilas, in turn, that they assigned themselves an epithet of the yellow company. Do you remember that? Those are their words, none of us had to make it up. We just showed them the report. You said for yourself – yellow thieves, literally. And why is that? Because they put in their own report that they, not us, were stealing, setting up tenders, installing themselves as a percentage, organizing all kinds of works and services for local self-government, the province, the Republic, through their companies, to take money, to rob the people. They concluded that they also declared themselves tycoons, the Bosko Obradovic, the batin of fascist Dragan Gilas. Did we show you here his literary compositions of Dragan Gilas as a tycoon, tycoon, a tycoon, a tycoon-media tycoon? Well, these are their words about themselves, and we have sinned a terrible thing when we say to them their words, and this is what you have spoken about yourselves. Well, you know what, we can agree on that. If you think you are this, then we will tell you, well, you are it. So it's a bad attempt at spin. We can't insult someone by showing them his words, so it's my fault that someone wants a civil war in Serbia, which someone wants a coup, which someone wants a coup, which someone wants evil to Alexander Vukic, his family or the people of the SNS. So that's what we need to understand each other about, and this is that if you've been going over it and you've been thrilled by trying to cause an incident, a scandal, and a physical scandal in the National Assembly, yes, it is, you don't have to convince me that you didn't, that you did. If you disagree with these calls for a coup, that's good to hear. I see, there's Mr. Shevarlic. It wouldn't be bad to hear why he doesn't find the time. I guess he didn't have enough minutes for a replica to tell us what he thinks of the call for a coup by Dragan Djilas, the godfather of Mladje, Bosko Obradovic and these DS unfortunates, trying to determine whether their party still has one or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73431	The right to a replica, the People's Messenger, Djorđa Vukadinović, and then the People's Messenger, Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm distracting you that my predecessor spoke for four and a half minutes. I don't want that much, but keep an eye on...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73433	He didn't have a replica, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73434	And how he had a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73435	It's up to me, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73436	So, it's a good thing Mr. Orlic mentioned that incident from the last working day before New Year's Eve, because I was looking for the word and looking for the word for nothing all day, all afternoon and the chairman wouldn't let me probably not say what I thought about it and not hear my word. However, I have now indirectly been given the opportunity to explain through this interpretation that my colleague Orlic has already offered. Yes, the problem is that you often put your grandmothers and frogs in the same basket because it suits you, whether it suits you or you think it suits you. So, I don't have a problem fenced by a procedure or a move by someone from the opposition, but you systematically demonize them. Basically, when this assembly of parliament began to work, the opposition did not have such a militant attitude, but was welcomed by the knife. I remember the first session, when Mr. Micunovic chaired as the oldest MP, with how much hatred, with how much aggression he was being kidnapped, fearing, as if he had committed a coup which closed the session somewhere late in the evening and said, we will continue on Monday. I must tell you, Mr. Orlic, you, or the assembly majority, have been aggressively moving towards these relatively few established representatives of the opposition since the beginning. As for this particular incident, I have approached it to calm the situation. Yeah, I even hugged my colleague Kostic and told them to get out of the O.R. It was clear that it came as the edge of a physical reckoning, but, frankly, they made an incident and it was very important to hear the public. He could have been warned, punished, one, two, three, to be expelled from the session, but we know that you and I, and that was indirectly admitted even by the president of your parliamentary group that he actually committed this violation and physically headed towards Bosca Obradovic. So, he stopped, it was an incident, but it also happened in the European Parliament, developed a transparency, Mr. Orlic, where there was something critical at the expense of the authorities, and then six of your members of the parliamentary group approached him physically, but it ended badly for him. So that's what justice does, that's what it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73437	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73438	I've been talking for two and a half minutes, and Mr. Orlic has been talking for four and a half minutes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73439	Thank you. A colleague of Vukadinovic, a colleague of Orlic, responded after the amendment, wasted the time of the parliamentary group. You've been looking for a replica that lasts up to two minutes, and I've given you almost three. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73440	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, member of the 107th Injury of Dignity. Now we've heard about the aggression of the majority over the minority. Now heard about the famous aggression against Boska "Ljotic". Unbelievable, I can't believe what I heard. From this same speaker, I've been listening to how we control RTS, including my smallness. I've never been to RTS live in 30 years, I have a political party whose president I am with 10,000 members, etc. He's been six times in two years and he's complaining about the RTS menu that I haven't been once. But this has gone beyond that, and we all know that Bosko "Oradović" has brought a stone here. We all know that on the Administrative Board, part of the computer was shot at by a fellow Martinovic. We all know that he broke into the cabinet of Maja Gojkovic and left bruises on her body, so he ran into the president of parliament. We all know, let's just say he was so aggressive that he tried the flag state to open the door to parliament. We all know that the MPs of Dvori were tearing up the microphone, I think, Mrs. Marija Janjusevic. We all know about aggression, about the famous aggression “enoughed them, ” you remember everyone here, nobody from the ruling majority came to the minority, went to someone's face, never went to their ranks and cursed their mother. It's all happened to me, no one's ever done anything like that in a line-up chase, and especially no one's ever been after "Bostić Ljotic". It is now seen that regardless of the end of this term, and me and my political opponents want a successful election campaign and all the happiness in the elections as much as they deserve, but that doesn't mean I won't argue with them in parliament. I wish them all the best, but right now you can see who was on the list of Boška "Ljotića". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73441	I don't think I've done a specified breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Marian Risticevic: I don't want to make a statement. A colleague, don't you want to? All right. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73442	Thank you very much. If you ask me how I feel about reducing subsidies from 100 acres to 20 acres or five times, I mean all the worst. If you ask me how I feel about reducing subsidies from 12,000 to 4,000 dinars per hectare, I mean all the worst, because these are the least subsidies per hectare in all of Europe. If you're asking me what I think you're completely unannounced to increase the limit from 10 head of small cattle to 30 head of cattle for the right to subsidies in the current year that's already started for the plainland area, I mean all the worst. If you're asking me why there wasn't 5% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia, or of the total tax revenues, and why you cut off farmers as far as possible, according to the methodology of the Supreme State Auditor 103 billion, I mean all the worst. Why? Because in the last six years and this term, you have put out over 60,000 family agricultural holdings per two members, which is 120,000 people lost their chance to live and survive. Who did you empty these villages for? Is it for the migrants? For who? So, what I think of Bosko Obradovic, I showed it the moment I left that parliamentary group because of the disagreement with the decision you made past my knowledge, as a non-partisan MP. I normally didn't participate in Dwri's activities in their presidency, which doesn't belong to me, but after that I made a decision. If it bothered you that I was in the National Assembly and after that, then jump into your own mouth. I'm just wondering, what would you have done if it hadn't been for the opposition to leave the National Assembly? You've spent more time, three times, talking about the opposition than about the country's development programmes. That's your biggest problem. What happens when you leave the government, it will be seen how it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73443	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73444	As a promoter, although we've moved away from the law. Mr. Chairman, I really can't help some people because they don't want to cooperate. We now see that those who were on the list of Bosko "Ljotic", do not want to be fenced from the procedures of Bosko "Ljotic" and Dragan Dilas. So, they don't want to, and they say they were extra-party candidates on the Dvori lists, the DSS, which are political parties. I really don't understand that. I don't understand that transition from Tito to Ljotic, I could never understand it, but let's just say, you get 62-63 thousand euros for a study on cooperatives, cooperatives fail, and you're complaining to no one and now you're complaining about agricultural politics, and at the time you got the money, the total incentives and subsidies were 19 billion, the course was 117 dinars. Today, incentives in agriculture are 43 to 45 billion. So, double and more than twice as big, and you're citing the example because we wanted to increase the number of throats and announce it for years in advance, that these herds are insulated, that the subsidies are not just going to develop, or to produce plant cultures. For cereals that we export, and our meat production, milk, eggs, etc., we have shifted certain resources to develop, intensify agricultural production. In doing so, no one will say, and especially not him, that we have thousands of tractors, that we have thousands of connected machines, hundreds of acres of orchards, etc., given to peasants, or subsidized from 50 to 70%, which was unrecorded at the time when they drew money from the agrarian budget for false consulting services, printing a manual there on cooperatives, which has never been printed, and no one has ever seen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73445	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73446	First of all, what we were talking about, what topics we were dealing with in the National Assembly, Mr. Chevarlic, you can't know. You can't know for the simple reason that you came to this National Assembly very rarely. However, where and where more than those who joined you together into the congregation, with whom you were on the same list, but very rarely I have to admit, even when it comes to being there today, it's brother to brother, how much? Half an hour a day. So I can't say that you've been able to tell us what we've been up to. It's not a matter of whether or not we talked about plans for the future, we realized those plans. Let me remind you, we've passed laws here. We've been doing reforms in this room, and we've been doing reforms on our own. The President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, and the Government of Serbia, and we as the National Assembly, also worked their part. You chose to miss it all, mostly. I'm saying mostly, not to the extent that the others we mentioned and now, and with whom they really went to the polls, I guess at that point they shared values, and now you say you're showing that you don't agree with them the moment you left them. When you come here and start talking about everything and everything, but literally everything and everything, because you know, to call us GMOs out of pure peace, no one asked you anything on that subject or touched you at all, but if you're going to do these things, how you don't find it necessary to deal with what's the most important topic right now, and that's an invitation to a coup, Mr. Chevarlic, and that's an invitation to a military coup, it's an invitation to the military and the police to carry out a coup and to start some kind of civil war. Is it more important for you to insult people from the SNS or to relativize it? Now I ask you openly: what do you think of what your opinion is? You instead of answering that question, you say – and I think about subsidizing this, about tractor that, and this is what I think about cooperatives. You show that this question is not important to you, that you ignore it, that it is not dangerous. It's a question, Mr. Chevarlich, concerning everyone in this country and everyone's children and the future of the entire people. You can't start the story if we're closing something. We have here, among other things, and the policy we have implemented, the laws we have passed, opened a lot of things. In this country, let me inform you, in relation to the period of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, the yellow tycoon and the thief company, which bothers Mr Vukadinovic when he is said to be, but that is, that is, the truth, in relation to that time, we have opened up a lot of good things. Now, the topic is whether the solution, is good, is it right that everything that we have opened, and what they have failed to destroy, to put everything in order, to be like a flat ground after some complete destruction, devastation, destruction that civil war carries on with them, because that is what these people call, this Bosko Obradovic, Gilasov's public. That's what I asked. And it can't be related, it can't be mocked, it can't be divorcing stories about whether we look like tomatoes or what you've already told us. So that's what we've been doing. The story of what we opened and what we built for some migrants, so that's the story of Boška Obradovica. Wave something, scare the people, say things, even though nobody cares about it, and then, you see the story wonderfully upgraded, then you just suddenly fire a sentence -- and that's why I call on the Serbian Army and the police to take over power in the country. You know, something like that happened in Greece a few years ago. The MP for their extreme right-wing organization "Golden Dawn" said the same thing in their parliament, but not in front of journalists, but in a place where it should be most protected, at a pay phone. He literally said the same thing. He said - I call on the army and the police to carry out a coup and take over power. Do you know what happened back then? Not only was he condemned by all present, but all present, condemned by both his MP group and those who went out with him to the elections, kicked him out of the party and said, "We are ashamed of this one, we detest this one, this is disgusting to us, this is something like this for someone to wish for our country and our children, that is out of the question. Now, that's why I'm asking you who were on the same list, on the same side, sharing the benches with these, who say the same thing, but in the Serbian Parliament, what is your reaction? It can't and can't be relativated, ignored, pretend it wasn't anything. It was, it was what-what. Everyone in this country has to say exactly where they stand when they stand, because it concerns the fate of the entire people and the whole state. Mr. Vukadinović, it has nothing to do with our words and tones that we spoke to at the first session or whatever you want after it. On that first, to remind you, the then head of the DS parliamentary group, at the time DS President Bojan Pajtic was cursing our mother. None of us said anything like that about him. You've got the footage today, so look what it looked like. Did he say that to Micunovic, who chaired or to us here, I don't know, he was kind of looking at us. But that Micunovic, none of us then or later referred to those words sent to him by that fascist Bosko Obradovic, who is calling for a coup here. We told him everything Bosko Obradovic told him about a month ago, so some of the DS jumped, but they have better things to do than protect each other, and now everyone has to protect themselves. They don't know what they're gonna do or how they're gonna do it. But it's their business and their relationship to their colleagues. So that kind of aggression, that kind of and verbal violence, but you saw very quickly the one that grows into open physical violence, into this room, in this congregation, which is still going on, some others have. And that's the whole truth that you know very well. Now, what they thought was so forcefully, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, insolently, and in that germ of fascism they brought in, they would be able to tear down all the benches on this side, so that they would be seducing order here, well, that, as you can see, they were mistaken, and that's the essence of theirs, perhaps your problem with us. Here are the people who don't want to say it - they won't be able to do it. And whether you agree with them or not, you are the most invited to answer. I told you, you rarely supported all the bad, catastrophicly bad things these people did, so I'm curious what you have to say today in the case of this call for a coup, and you and Mr. Ševarlic, whose answer, I'm sure, is not satisfied either, Mr. Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73447	The right to a replica, first the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic, then Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73448	Thank you. Let me get this straight first. I call on the public prosecutor to examine all the circumstances and facts in the case of that event and to take all the measures prescribed by law. I don't want to interfere with his jurisdiction. It is my reaction, not only to Bosko Obradovic's actions, but to the actions of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and those who pass through the Republic of Serbia and do not respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, it would have been good if in the past four years we had solved at least a part of the problems we could solve, with little good will for the claims that they are reaching, if I am not mistaken, nearly two billion euros, based on the debt of farmers for pension, disability and health insurance, at least that part of health insurance when they are charged health insurance contributions and when interest on unpaid contributions, and they did not have certified health books in those years and could not use public health services. How can you retroactively ask them to pay contributions and interest on contributions to something they couldn't possibly objectively, legitimately use? Also, how can you make a decision on the numbering fees in favour of the Public Service for probably a million numbers that are not in any function for television programs? Why are you robbing people? Why didn't you pay off the 2019 subsidies? It's March 2020, they're supposed to use farmers to renew production. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73449	Thank you. (Miladin Ševarlic: Why haven't we discussed the State Auditor's report? We can continue our session to discuss these questions as well. We can't change the agenda, we can't affect the agenda. We're not your favorites. Only those who are your favorites can do it. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73450	Thank you. This is an illustration of a little asymmetrical relationship, Mr. Orlic speaking again for over six minutes, I have two. What matters is I think it's important to point out. There's no buts. I tried not to, but when I was judging this call for a coup. It's just unserious, irresponsible. I think it's a mistake, political, and not just political. However, the fact is, it's my view, that the government is systematically, not just talking about these four years, I've been judging closely for four years because I've been here, but practically since coming to power, the SNS has favored and forced and exercised an aggressive, intolerant relationship with political insufferable people. This is the attitude that you, or representatives of the ruling majority, systematically have toward anyone who is at that moment the most dangerous or perhaps they want to represent him as the most dangerous. The way the ruling majority representatives here spoke of the opposition's present or absent leaders is absolutely below any democratic, civilizational level. It is also a fact, such as the fact that it is not acceptable to call for a change in the constitutional order, for a violent change, for a coup and so on. I even think that some of the opposition's colleagues seem to be working on purpose, I can't, of course, argue, as if they're deliberately working for you in favor of such statements. But, however, the fact is that the relationship between the government and the opposition is bloodied beyond any measure, beyond any degree of normality. The fact is, I personally tried not to contribute, often suffering very ugly and harsh attacks on my smallness. Whoever cursed the mother, we could talk to, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Orlic, because I've heard it many times, and that's what other colleagues heard, experienced similar from the president of the ruling coalition, except I didn't want to make a planetary problem, as well as some colleagues from the opposition who were threatened and cursed in the ugliest way. Let's be realistic. The stone is one symbolic gesture. He didn't throw that stone. I condemn banging at the House's door. I condemn the call for a coup. But what happened at the end of the working day, or at the end of the autumn session of the National Assembly in December, was caused by the incident by the president of your parliamentary group, trying physically to deal with Mr. Obradovic. And Mr. Obradovic could have been punished, warned, because he broke in with a banner. But a physical attack was taken by the president of your parliamentary group and even apologized there to his president at a press conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73451	My colleague Vukadinovic, I accidentally chaired part of it at the time. The president of the SNS parliamentary group did not attack MP Bosko Obradovic, but wanted to take away the transparency. That's a big difference. One more thing. If you want to deal with politics, you have to have a stomach and get a punch, not just give it away. Let's get this straight right now. I don't want to talk about any other things that happened at RTS, etc. (Jorge Vukadinovic: I also condemned it. ) Right to replica, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73452	No, I didn't answer the line, but as an authorized promoter, I have the right to the championship. Right? Do you agree? Martinovic, right? That's right, as far as I know, the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Martinovic did not hit anyone at that session. Martinovic was struck by two MPs and found himself on the floor. At no point did Martinovic want to hit anyone. He didn't want to hit anyone for a moment. But I do know one MP who's been making it hard for Bosko Obradovic to finish the press conference and get here to make the incident. The MP threw what -- gimi faj, as it is said -- toss five, Bosko Obradovic at a successful incident in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The incident was supposed to serve Mila Djukanovic, he was to drag us into the Assembly, to do something that Milo Djukanovic would use to say -- behold, the Republic of Serbia and Russia are getting involved in affairs, all the time they have verbally urged us to do something to give Mila Djukanovic the extractor that Russia and Serbia, through Serbia, have interfered in Montenegro's internal affairs over the law we have all condemned, the Law of Faith in Montenegro. All the time, they tried verbally to get us into it, and then their allies came to do it physically with various transparencys. Yes, Mr. Martinovic wanted to take away the transparency, but he didn't threaten to hit anyone or hit anyone, nor did anyone fall for his blow. It was all the opposite - physical aggression of Boško Ljotić, repeatedly expressed. The fact that someone was on his list, I can't think of it as some kind of excerpt, and now I don't know at what cost to defend the actions of Bosko Ljotic. I wish them every happiness in the election, but I will always argue with them. I'm against aggression. I'm for this assembly to exist, not to carry out a military coup, a coup and a military coup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73453	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73454	When you look at that difference in the arches you show, then it's quite clear what attitudes are in the background. It's completely clear. First, when you say something that someone on our side said, and said it in a congregation debate, beware -- said it, you qualify it as below every civilization level, and it's not for people, it's what those who don't even belong to humanity do. On the other hand, an invitation to a coup, to a coup, to arrest, to kill Alexander Vukitch, how do you qualify? It's not acceptable. To have someone say something, when they're attacked by justice to God, like every time, they're not people anymore, they're what, beasts, insects, what are we? And on the other hand, someone to threaten Alexander Vukic, the unhinged members of his family, unhinged by his children, including us here, with his head, and his children Serbia, if you will, to destroy their country, to destroy their future completely, you do not say that it is not for people. You don't say -- that broke up with civilization, no. It's just kind of not personally acceptable to you. That's an indicator of how much honesty there really is, how much personal attitude there is to certain messages. We all see what is the essence of the story and what is the main problem - which is the point towards us, according to Alexander Vukic, then it's okay, according to the members of his family, then it's perfect, for the people of the SNS, so, if it means, to everyone else in this country. Because the issue of Serbia's destruction is a matter of bloodshed and civil war, so it's a little bit about everyone in this country. It's all kind of okay, only when it's not you or one of your own. That's the problem, and that's the difference not only with questions, but with everything in this world. Nothing better. It's just worse before. We're talking here about your colleagues, your Dicks, and the prides that were your voters, behind whom you stood proudly until you received your mandates, talking about how they would destroy Serbia, that they were causing civil war here. And how do you answer that? Some hysterical nebuloses, God knows what happened here a little while ago, but with a message, you're robbing the people. We're robbing the people? It's a shame. You who have thrown half a million people out on the street, you who have provided us for hundreds of thousands of people with jobs and their families, the first salary in the house and for them bread on the table, we rob! You're telling us! You, who called yourselves yellow thieves, who you admitted in your papers, thought we wouldn't see them, that they were being stolen, that they were being wrong, that they were being embezzled in tenders, that they were pulling on percentages! You tell someone to rob something! The ones we fixed almost twice... (President: Bringing the end. I'm done. ... average salary in Serbia from your 300 fantastic grooms to 500. Let's move on by giving the people more. We're robbing, you say, by building powerful highways that were never on your mind. We robbed what we gave the people, you say. (President: I thank you. Last sentence, indeed. That's the difference in perception. As Alexander Vukic and the SNS look at how to make the people more, how to make everything, for everyone in this country, everything, and for you and your children, more than yesterday, you're just looking at how to make the most of the insult, the better the swearing or the more threatening you are, so if you have to be with other people's heads and other people's children, but just to show how bad you are that you're not who you think you should be. That's the difference in the idea of the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73455	The People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73456	So far it has definitely been a replica, and definitely Mr. Orlic has spoken for four minutes or three minutes and 55 seconds. Of course, this last part, the last part of Mr. Orlic's address, has nothing to do with me or Professor Orlic. Ševarlic, but I have seen an opportunity to discuss with absent representatives of the opposition's former government. What you failed to say, of course, with many substitutes for thesis and planting, insinuation, Mr. Orlic, which is that I have no problem condemning and condemning at a time when it happened in public, not only here on your callings, and incurring RTS, because I forgot that, and these two incidents that I mentioned, but it won't prevent me from saying that I think the ruling majority here in the Assembly and in the public and in the media has systematically nurtured a speech of hatred, aggression, intolerance towards political opponents and unsuspecting. I think you've produced, knowingly or unconsciously, not the particular individual you call for and to whom you call and whose actions you call for, but that you've produced one reaction that can be monitored in public, that there is indeed aggression, and intolerance, and hatred towards you. At the cost of being released, at the cost of being in the wind, between that anvil and the hammer, I don't accept it, and I don't want to participate in that atmosphere of euphoric hatred and aggression. I can't help but realize that you and the SNS, you specifically as MPs and media close to you and the ministers and officials of this country have largely created this atmosphere for years. According to the opposition, which was weak or not too aggressive, you did it. Now, part of it has turned against you, part of it now, and they're doing it similar to you. I don't justify them, Mr. Orlic, on the contrary, I distance myself from it, but I can't forget what's causing it, and what's the consequence of that process. Besides, when we mention who's there and who's on which side, not the members of your list, but the people of your party, Mr. Orlic, threatened to rip out their throats, physically threatened them. The president of the municipality, a member of your party, high-ranking official of your party, is being tried for assault and arson of an independent journalist's home in Grocska. So, what I'm saying is, there's everything and everything, so I haven't called you here every time to ask if you're building on a gentleman's procedure and that, the president of the Subotic municipality, the president of the Grock municipality and all sorts of other things in each other's accounts, even in mutual accounts that people from the SNS are participating in at the bar. Everyone knows it all over Serbia that often the larger souls of each other, count even physically, and you can imagine what they would do and what they would do with the opposition if the opposition threatened them. Now you've forced the opposition more into the mouse hole, so they're counting on each other. So that's what happens in your party, your officials, your board members and your council presidents, Mr. Orlic. Squawking, scratching, threats to the same, it all happens. I didn't see you here fenced. So, I don't have a problem, I condemned it as soon as it was an attack on RTS, I thought it was bad, it was stupid, it's unnecessary, it's harmful, like these other things, but let's not forget who started it first. That doesn't even justify the one who reacted. Maybe he sees a chance here right now to pounce politically, maybe he wants some political boss now, like you always talk about thieves of the yellow, tycoon company, the mafia, the Giki Mafia. It's a common phrase that one of the leaders of the opposition is named here. If he's a mob, arrest him, take the process. A wolf descendant, it's a racist speech to one of the leaders of the opposition, alluding to its origin, or to a grandfather who, I don't know, I guess, is Muslim, Bosniak, what is it. So, ugly talk here is about every representative of the opposition. What happened when Sasa Jankovic was active? What is Sasa Jankovic's routine name here, and how is he offended? How offended, therefore, is literally every official of the opposition party who at that time was a danger to you? Now the beating's got two ends, so maybe it's turning a little against you. I will not participate in this, I will condemn all this, I will fight democratically for your right if one day you are threatened by a minority. Now, unfortunately, you're still an aggressive majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73457	My colleague Vukadinovic, I can't quite agree with you about everything, but it would be my turn to say, as I told you, because of the atmosphere in parliament -- do you remember any mention of SNS functioner's family? You don't remember that. You don't remember one parliamentary question, in one extremely rude way asked – does the President of the Republic beat his wife? That was not said by the ruling majority MPs. So, accept that for the atmosphere in parliament, however, and the heavy words that were falling, great responsibility is borne by the MPs of the former regime. Right on line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73458	Thank you very much. I forgot to answer the question - how long am I here? As a non-partisan MP and an independent MP in this period I ask the Vice-President of the Assembly in the absence of the President of the Assembly, I ask the Deputy Secretary-General in the absence of the Secretary-General, why is there no information on our activities on the e-parliament, or any MPs, or all MPs, excuse me, except one - participation in discussions, and ultimately with the middle of November of this month? It has a portal e – parliament. Here, take all the information as much as anyone, so let's see if any other non-partisan MP from your ranks has had more performances than me, etc. Then we can discuss it with argument, this way by heart I really don't know. As for the so many times mentioned Strategy for the Development of Agricultural Cooperatives in the Republic of Serbia, it is one of 30 projects funded in the package. On this project, only on this project were six foreign participants, experts from the cooperative area. I brought it. I printed it out two days ago. And two days ago, you printed it out? Shame on you. And you took the money five years ago? I printed out two days ago... And you took the money five years ago? Shame on you. I'm ashamed of you because you don't know what I'm saying or what I'm saying. So this is a guide through cooperatives in Serbia. This was printed by a friend from the Zemun High School by 62,000 euros, and our project cost 56 and a half thousand euros. Here's just a list, a phone book and a copy of old regulations, laws, etc. There is no such thing as research. I can leave it to you, Mr. Rističevic, to make sure you see what I'm talking about. Please, just give me a second. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73459	Thank you. Right to the replica of Parliamentarian Marian... (Miladin Chevarlić: I read.) Please let me read one sentence. You're way out of time, pal. (Miladin Ševarlic): Why are you afraid to read a sentence? I'm not afraid of you, just the work. Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73460	What did he say? He printed two days ago? Miladin Shevarlic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73461	Mr. Chevarlich, the election's scheduled. The vote is a holiday of democracy, so don't make me give you any notices today. I'm really asking you. (Miladin Ševarlic): Why should you give me a warning? ) Because you are violating the Rules of Procedure and do not allow other MPs to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Miladin Ševarlic: Me? You. I gave my other colleague my word. (Miladin Ševarlic):... to leave the O.R. You don't have to leave the O.R. I'm not forcing you, I'm just asking you to let other colleagues participate in the discussion. The right to a replica of the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević, then Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73462	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've met the democracy of the former regime by getting beat several times. I was luckier than the unfortunate Ranko Panic who lost his life in a peaceful reported protest. We had a dream to register a television station, but that wasn't possible. Today, those who have 20 unregistered TV stations per 24 are broadcasting a program against the authorities, do not have that kind of problem that we have, or anyone physically endangers them. As for cooperative, you yourself heard, five days ago, printed out two days ago, and paid in 2011 a thousand copies. Now we saw one eight years later. Of our co-operatives of that time, there's only one book left. There's no cooperative anywhere. It all fell apart, took all the tycoons. No one has ever judged them, but here we are guilty because the tycoons have been hoarding corporate property, as our young people say in 2009, in 2010, in 2011. So it's our fault. They took the money for the book, the cooperative's gone, and nobody's got anything. Anyway, here I suggest that the electoral list some here want to form is called – F list, F section list or whatever you want after various discussions. I also have to say there's a thief here. Let's just imagine every day when you steal 5,500 dinars. Imagine, today I arrived from New Carlovci. By my signature, I claim, not to live in the New Carlovites, but to travel from New Carlovec to the National Assembly, and I offer my phone number to check it out, for each of my individual trips. For every single trip I've ever been paid to be, be careful when someone complains about morals, whether I've traveled. Here, I volunteer to call BIA to check on base stations to see if I traveled from place of residence to National Assembly at the time of the session. That's why I get travel expenses. But so does the one who complains about the lack of morality, who tells us about some theft. To do the same, Djordje Vukadinovic, who, every day when he comes to the National Assembly, collects the expenses from Novi Sad to Belgrade, applied to Novi Sad, but does not travel. We get travel expenses, not because we're applying somewhere, and lives in Belgrade, Mother Jerosima, I'm not going to point out that I wouldn't tell him that I'm jeopardizing his safety. So, that he too offers to the service to compare on mobile phones whether on the day of the assembly session he and I traveled or not, who cheated on the state for 13,000 euros in these three and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73463	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic, then Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73464	I'm not answering because of this flashing picture printed two days ago, that's absolutely no one in Serbia is interested. If you're not going to say what you think about the call for the army and the police to rise up and deprive Alexander Vukic of his freedom, lock him up, and, possibly, what else you've planned to do, kill him, and I'm not going to talk about the paintings either. A lot of lies have been told here. It's been said that we ripped someone's throat out, trunked. Why are you telling lies? No one's throat is ripped out, least of all by one of us. No one's, what you said, trunked. What are you talking about? He says someone from the SNS had a fight with his colleague, so it's an excuse for you to liquidate us, as your fascists say, Obradovic. Don't say anything. You just accused us of aggression, intolerance and hatred. Here, I'll tell you what you just said. So, we, to whom you have since day one, started this sassy swearing mother and saying those wonderful things. You remember what it was all about, garbage, cattle, horses, etc. It started on words, and then you threatened us with stones, waved here, approached people, walked into the face, started the first punches, pulled the microphones, walked into the cabinet at the president of the National Assembly, turned his arm there. Our people at board meetings were getting punches in the face, breaking down the assembly door here. Meanwhile, they wore gallows in the terraces, motor saws on public service. To us, who have responded to everything that has happened to us, and you and your people have done, as we have answered it, by inviting you to a dialogue in the National Assembly, by what we have said – come on, with all that you have done to us, sit at the same table with us, because we know that politics is being run here. Sit by the same table with us to hear what it is that bothers you and what you need, regarding electoral conditions, because we know that Serbia is more important than what you want for us and what we are able to endure. Did we say -- let's hear what you want, what do you need to do to try to be correct and normal, if that's possible, to keep this country from calling for civil war, bloodshed and other wonderful things that have been threatened? Did 99% of the things you said here, talk about those days, suggest, whatever you want, meet? They realized everything, changed the laws, defined what political campaigns were and what public property was allowed and what should not be done at work and everything that was subject to interpretation, precisely introduced into the laws for the first time, and not by anyone else. Have we formed the supervisory board you asked for for, 20 years, you haven't thought of it? Did we give you the space you were looking for? Did we meet the agreement three plus two REM members will be elected? Have we adopted your proposals here again? We did everything, we did everything, and what did we get at it? What do you say we showed hate, arrogance and intolerance. We have shown the aggression that we have made dialogue possible, that we have accepted to swallow everything, because we are aware that Serbia is more important than you personally, both personally and in everything we have come to meet and have done everything to you. Then how did you get back on all this? You said -- well, now it's no big deal, let's take our hands off and bring it all down, we won't do it at all, we won't do it at all, we'll do what? We want power without a choice, we want to become ministers by some magic, to be heads of public enterprises, local self-government. Well, you know what, that's not enough either, we want a coup, we want the army and the police to rise, we want Alexander Vukic in prison and we want a civil war in Serbia. Who is aggressive, who is intolerant and what you have already said, once again, that is the difference in the perception of Serbia's interest, in understanding the interests of the people, that is the difference in the perception of good and evil. Alexander Vukic and the SNS with these and such criteria and views of the world never had anything in common. That's why you see where anyone is today, where Alexander Vukic and SNS are, and where these are so brilliant, so principled, how wonderfully you describe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73465	Right on the line, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73466	And this time, my colleague Orlic spoke for over four minutes. And you, as you give your word, Mr. Chairman, take the opportunity to have some kind of little controversy with me, but that's not the most important thing. The problem is Mr. Orlic, which even now, when you're trying and the chairman, I don't mean just this session, but in the last days or weeks, that you seem more polite, more cultured, more normal, that at least a little bit more like Parliament, and that's very hard for you, it's very hard for you. So one and a half, two, whatever you want, a few opposition MPs are very difficult to warn. It just shows what attitude you had and what attitude you'd have if we were here more. I think that you deliberately went, the ruling majority to drive out, to make part of the opposition leave parliament just so that you could use this space for uninterrupted propaganda, foolish expansion of the character and the work of your leader, plus the wise politics and the brilliant results that the government has recorded. That's really 100 times when you hear it, it gets a little into our ears, even us, let alone those who watch it on TV. Then they don't come to see how they really live and look at the world around them, but like everyone says, it's wonderful. So, yes, there were stories of nicking throats, threats of nicking throats, concrete shoes, trunks and the like. That's what your community presidents used to say. Yeah, and the house is on fire for an independent reporter. He almost burned in that fire because he criticized the local government and the master in Greece. Yes, Mr. Orlic, from the first day of your authority, the leaders of the opposition, one or another, are the most disgustingly attacked both in this Assembly and in the media that are under your control. Yes, the atmosphere has been poisoned, Mr. Orlic. Yes, you initiated it and, yes, I'll admit, one part of the opposition saw that chance and took that game and now you might be in trouble. What you're boasting about, these measures, the changes in the law and the rest, you've been doing in extortion. It was done in an extortion because it threatened to eventually have elections, including this reduction of censorship on which only two parties, i.e. you and each other, your coalition partner would cross the censorship, and then you started to play a little bit of fineness in the last few months. When an unfavourable report came from the European Commission, when the situation was criticised in parliament, when the speaker of the assembly was forced and she, I admit, reacted quickly to change some practice, at least formally. From an appointment of sessions to those phantom amendments. So, the different things we've been telling you here. I was very moderate and measured and for that I got salves of attacks, spits, insults, curses and the like. So you changed it, but it wasn't good. In practice, the behavior remained similar. And today, and these days, I have to endure the worst personal attacks, but I don't want to spend this little time spending on the right people who attack these people, not just me, today on me, yesterday on someone else, Professor. Ševarlic, who broke up with others from the opposition, bought their freedom, bought amnesty for the malfeasances of their companies and for a gig they couldn't wear or could carry or serve for some of the stock reserves eaten by rats. So the problem is, and that's the only thing I agree with, Mr. Orlic, the situation is not good and it's not normal. Who's to blame? I think you're more responsible, you think it's us, but let's just say now that you're talking to me, you're talking to someone else who's not here. But it's no big deal, if you don't understand, if we don't realize that this road that's set by Serbia and that's much more dangerous than who's going to tell whom and who's going to insult whom, that it's really dangerous and that anyone who pulls a hand won't end well, no matter how the election ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73467	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73468	Okay, so because you can't determine who you are, who you are and who you are, we need every time to have a debate with you on why you don't want to set yourself up for this, do you support it, then you say no, and then everything you said that you disagreed with, and you don't support it, repeat it. The problem, Mr. Vukadinovic, is you who went to elections with former regimes and Ljotics, fascists, and today it's hard for you to live, is that you did these things and you don't know where you are anymore. Are you with them or aren't you with them? When it suits you, you are with them, when it does not suit you, you would not be. You took pictures with these people, and all the team you mentioned, who you mentioned before and Jankovic and Tadic and those from DS, and again these Ljoticians, Obradović fascists, with them you took pictures in those white shirts, hugged together, and then it worked out for you, I guess it was a nice day for you to be together. Well, then when you notice they're not doing the smartest things in the world, then you say you're not with them again. Until when? Until the next photo shoot. So your political identity problem, I think is the source of the biggest confusion here. Let me tell you one more thing, with everything you think about us all the worst, you'll never be able to correct the fact and the truth. We didn't use physical violence on the other side of you, it all went the other way. So, once again, you never came into the face of us, never waved stones over our heads, never hit anyone, never tried to break inventory, other people's inventory or anything like that. At least, Mr. Vukadinovic, we looked to burn down the National Assembly and then when there was a word here on whether someone was stealing when the Assembly burned down, and it was further stolen from it, but recently when there was an attempt to call everything -- burn it down, burn it down, burn it all down, when your fighters wanted the story to happen again, none of us ever did it again. That's the first thing. Second, with all that we have said again – sit down for what to talk about as people. We are all able to endure, it is something important, about the fate of the state and the fate of the people, sit down and try to behave as is appropriate to an institution like the National Assembly. Did we show that? The ones on the other side, no, they never are. We showed it. You say that to all of this – extortedly, you've scared us a lot, probably, so we had to. To all of this, how do you repay? I call for a coup, I call for a coup, for the army and the police to rise and take power in the country. Did someone make you do that? Did these people, this smart Bosko Obradovic, Gilas, the boss of his and the others, force them to do so so now they have to do so, to call upon misfortune in this country, to call for bloodshed? I don't understand that. You say: We are good because we must be, and what then are they only good? Then what do things that are all just not good for Serbia? I don't understand that. It is, once again, to make it clear to you that there is a fundamental difference in understanding what politics means, what it means to do some public work in the interests of other people, which means having a healthy relationship with the state you should serve, if you are involved in politics, you need to serve the state. Alexander Vukic and the SNS are doing good things for this people, things the people recognize as good and in the economy, and in infrastructure, and in education, and in health care, and in whatever you want. That's what people who live here see, and so do those who look at us from the side, and you feel free to doubt if we're doing it honestly, but it'll remain a clue and the fact that we did. Think of whatever you want why we did, we did, and it remains behind us, and calling for blood, for destruction, for senseless robbery like when these tycoons, yellow thieves and fascists, what they call themselves, and everything they say, they do, so that's what some other people do. That's the difference with the state, that's the difference with the people, that's the difference that's so clear to that people that they're, because they're like that, they'll never have anything in this country to look for again. Let them call for a coup and a coup every time they have nothing better to do, and they will always be told that this is out of the question, and Serbia will, with a decent, honest, be able to determine each time. You who will not, you yourself have determined which Serbia you belong to if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73469	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. [[After a break.]] The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73471	I thank you, Chairman. I will speak according to the amendment, normally, since I have submitted an amendment wishing to help the citizens of Serbia to be informed in time, not to get into a situation like this, that we have come to an end, we are voting for the law, and tomorrow is the deadline. If we hadn't done this now, we'd certainly have problems with our citizens who have their own weapons personally, hunters who have their own hunting weapons and, as we say, we end it right before the end, when it's about time. By the way, I've submitted the amendment, I've asked for six months to be notified to the public, that the competent ministry is notifying the public for six months, in order for people to know when it's time, not to forget, and so tomorrow they can finish their work, not to get back into the situation in two years to re-extended the law. Otherwise, I can say one thing, it's very important for all of us here. Since we have just heard that many of our fellow MPs are talking about the hunting alliance, about the Hunting Chamber, I say one thing, that the Hunting Union of Serbia, the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, Bratislav Cirkovic has repeatedly asked to find a way to extend the deadline, to send it to all the competent services, and I can say that now was the last moment. Otherwise, Bratislava Cirkovic, as president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, together with four regional hunting alliances, is the hunting union of Southeastern Serbia, the Hunting Union of Central Serbia, the Hunting Union of Vojvodina and the Hunting Union of Kosovo and Metohija. All these hunting alliances were very active and I thank my colleagues from my parliamentary club once again for proposing this law, where I have also supported my signature, along with the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia. Once again, my fellow MPs, I think it's time to vote for this bill, to extend the deadline to 2022 and thus ensure that our people, who are close to four thousand persons, who have not reregistered their weapons, can do so. Once again, the hunting alliance, hunting associations, hunters, these are people who really have hearing and feelings for our agriculture, for our economy, for our tourism and for everything that our Serbia needs. Once again, I, as a national MP, will now vote and continue to support Serbia's development policy, with an emphasis on southeastern Serbia, and it is a small middle.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73472	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73473	Slowly, slowly, this is an important topic, this is about the citizens of Serbia, to whom this means a lot. Col. Milly had good intentions with this amendment, but it is hard to support this amendment, which I hope will be said by the promoters, because it is difficult to impose on the Ministry of Interior to send mandatory instructions to the media, no matter what frequency they use, but that is why those most interested in implementing this law, which is the Hunting Union of Serbia, the Shooting Union of Serbia and NAOS, they should make an effort to inform the public every few months what happens to all of this. I would like to say once again that the SNS parliamentary group supports this proposal, which our esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic explained and that it is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, but also to appeal that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior under the urgent changes in the sublaws governing the replacement of the armed list, and of course that all those who are in the next assembly of parliament and the next government are under emergency changes and the Law on Arms and Ammunition related to those parts of the Law that we have all established together are not good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73474	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73475	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised promoter, I would first of all like to thank Mr. Komlenski and Mr. Torbica for signing this proposal with me. I would like to thank all MPs, above all opposition MPs, MPs of the ruling parties, especially the strongest ruling party, for all supporting the right of gun owners to receive an additional two years to regulate the replacement of the armed list and avoid punishment and confiscation of weapons. On behalf of these owners, I would like to thank everyone, but I would recommend to the owners that during this next two-year period they carry out their obligation to reregister their weapons. There were various ideas here that I liked, but that's not a question for me, that's a question for all the gun owners and their associations. Once again, thank you to all those who have given the citizens of gun owners an extension of two years to avoid the punishment and confiscation of weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73476	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 4 March 2020, starting at 3 p.m. and 20 minutes, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the bill on amending the Arms and Ammunition Act in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – there are no abstentions – none, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that most of the votes the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 141 people's messengers for seven, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 13 against – one with abstention – no vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – there are no, abstentions – there are no, a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: for – 13, there are no, abstentions – there are no, a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – there are no, abstentions – there are no, a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no, a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for – 13, there are no, abstentions – there are no, a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the amendment to Article 2, which has become an integral part of the bill, provides for this law to enter into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 141. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on amending the Arms and Ammunition Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total – 141. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending the Arms and Ammunition Act. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – no one, with abstentions – has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put the motion for a law on the confirmation of Annex 1. Agreement on economic and technological co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstention – one, total – 141. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-04-0.u73477	Last act. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – 12 abstentions – there is no, no vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, at a session on 3 March 2020, at 17 hours and 2 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. All the best in the upcoming election, at all levels. Thank you.
