ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69706	Thank you. On Article 1, like others, I mean a total of 54 members, we have submitted the same amendments, but of course, each of the colleagues will explain the amendment. We have asked our amendments to delete each of these members in this law for several reasons. The main reason is that this law is changed 14 times and it is simply impossible by any amendment, by any means altering the law for which the government itself and the resolution minister, Zorana Mihajlovic, through these changes shows that the law is bad. Let's make it clear in the course of the law that something was missing, that something was wrong, that once the law changed, it's acceptable, but 14 times it says it's an extremely bad law. But there's something else hiding here. Through this law and through the other laws that we are going to talk about today, it is unequivocal and clear that Zorana Mihajlovic, as a resolute minister, is actually working against the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore against the interest of the Serbian state. Of course, we as an opposition political party have many objections to the work of the government, to the work of certain ministers, and we always talk about it, but it would never occur to us to obstruct the work of the government, because the government, whatever it is, is a reflection of the general majority, the will of the people, and it must be respected, but Zorana Mihajlović has long shown this and we are the only ones who have, for more than three years, talked in public about this, also to Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabić that it is high time for Zorana to get out of that place because she has no interest in Serbia at all. She was a woman who walked from party to party, who went everywhere after some of the personal interests and interests of some who are enemies of Serbia. That is why we propose such amendments, so we still think, no matter how close the elections are that it is high time for the government of the Republic of Serbia to be released from a ballast called Zoran Mihajlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69707	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Excuse me, colleague, first Katarina Rakic, as authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69708	Thank you. I heard when there was a debate on the principle of these laws that amendments submitted by MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party have devised the assembly, and today we have so many amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, which, in my opinion, do not make sense, but here I will now read what they say in the explanation because we have a bunch of amendments that say - delete. Now, it's being erased, and not suggesting something that would fix it, it really doesn't make any sense to me, so let's read the argument. In this address, I will only read the first sentence in the explanation. He says: “The existing law is not possible to fix with any change or addition. “ Now, in my speech, in principle, I have stated how many changes and additions have been made here 12 times, if we have that only in October of the month, in 2019 2,410 building permits were issued, if we have that in the period from 1.1.2016 to 31.12.2019, 72,411 permits were issued, and that we had before that a year after 7,000 permits, here, I am speaking in argument, reading the numbers. Today in Serbia, you have 53,642 sites. Those construction sites are based on some building permits, someone issued those permits, 53. 642 sites, I think this is something very clear to say that this law is good. I'm asking you that if this doesn't bring any of the effects you're proposing, change it again, let's work, let's move on. Our job here is to make laws on a daily basis, not to say, I'm erasing this one because it didn't score. I read you the score now, and what do you suggest? To delete, that there is no law, or maybe you want us to return that 2009 law, which the Constitutional Court annulled, to make bad laws for us, not to apply them, to be at the expense of the citizens, do you want such laws? Are those laws good to you or are you looking for laws that say they have no effect? I'm telling you, the Bureau of Statistics says that this law, the law we previously passed, led to the issue of 72,000 building permits, so I'm not talking about legalization, I'm talking about building permits, I'm talking about having 52,000 construction sites in Serbia. Can't we see that? If we don't see it, then we really have a problem. We can have a problem if we don't love each other, we're not even here to love each other, we're here to work, and I'm talking about the result, and you're talking about something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69709	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69710	If I had time, I would really write a reminder of the pearls of the ruling majority MPs. This is amazing that someone who in the fourth year of office, and I don't know if the colleague was in the previous assembly, a MP, that someone doesn't first know what the essence of the amendment is to delete any member of the law. That's amazing. And he's just saying if we're proposing to delete the amendments to the law, that it means there's no law anymore, it's worse than what a colleague said the other day that the law would be without a member if our amendment was passed. Don't, it's so much ignorance that it really hurts. We understand that you have some interest in defending Zorana Mihajlovic. My colleague certainly has a personal interest. You know she's in Zoran's vision as future director of Corridor. You know her husband gets direct transport permits from Zorana. And we understand that. That's why she only shows up here when Zorana Mihajlovic comes. That's why she's authorized for her bill, and that's why she comes here three times a year, and then she tells us -- we have to work here, we have to make laws here, we don't know what. To tell us what we need to do here, someone who comes here just to be the support of Zorana Mihajlovic. So, if you don't know a colleague, here, colleague Arsic, you certainly know what the proposal means to delete some member of the bill. Maintain a parliamentary group, educate them a little. It's a shame for the people to know nothing. How is it possible that if one law is amended, the Law on Planning and Construction, and we suggest that none of these changes be adopted, that I explain to a colleague who doesn't understand anything, how does that mean that the law will no longer be?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69711	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69712	I'm bringing her in, of course. There is a fundamental law that is changing, which is also bad, and our amendments point to the need to pass a completely new law that will respect the interest of the Serbian state and of all citizens living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69713	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69714	Zorana Mihajlovic is such a traitor that he is part of the government that is in Drvar and Mrkonjic City today along with the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, where we raise the Serbian people to the factory so that he can work. If you want the debate on amendments to come down to your personal war with Zoran Mihajlović, with Katarina Rakic or with another SNS MP, we can also accept it. I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think it contributes to the democratic character of the National Assembly, but if you insist, we can do that. So I could say in one of the next statements that your party president in the first volume of his book on Srebrenica told one of your MPs that in the 1990s he was the head of the auto mafia that was stealing golf in Belgrade. It is in the first book of Vojislav Seselj, which refers to Srebrenica. Are we going to talk to that tone, whose husband is doing some work that is in accordance with the law? Would you like to list the names of MPs from your parliamentary group whose wives work here in the National Assembly or working in some other state bodies? That doesn't make any sense. I do not understand at all the idea that when Minister Zorana Mihajlovic appears in the National Assembly, it comes down to personal war, to digging in closets, what shoes he wears, what socks, what gloves, which is the husband of Katarina Rakic. I mean, it's the level of discussion for the market, it's not for the National Assembly. But if you really want to talk about it, we can talk about it that way. We don't run away from such a debate. At least you know that when I want to, I don't have tongue hair and I can be more rude than all of you together. But I don't think that makes any sense. The results of Zorana Mihajlovic's work are visible. (President: Bringing the end. I'm done. The results of Zorana Mihajlovic's work are visible. Politics is not about sympathy and antipathy, love or other feelings, but about results. The results of Zorana Mihajlovic's work are absolutely visible, the Corridors are visible, new highways, new railway lines, less dead on the roads, safer traffic. Those are the results of her work. Whether you love her personally or not, leave it for you personally. But I cannot accept the idea that Zorana Mihajlovic is a traitor. A woman sits in a government that most of all rules in the previous period, among other things, helps the Serbian people who stayed in the Federation of BiH. Today, when part of the government, along with President Vukic, is located in Drvar and Mrkonjic City, where we raise factories to keep that people living on their centuries-old hearths, after surviving the gogogoto in 1995, you say – Zorana Mihajlovic is a traitor. If Zorana Mihajlovic were a traitor, she would not sit in a government supported by the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and supported by the SNS. There are no traitors of the Serb people in SNS. There are people in SNS who have different views on certain stages of our political history, but that is because we are a democratic political organisation. No traitors in the SNS, no traitors in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're all patriots, we all love Serbia, as I'm sure you love it. And for that very reason, I invite you to have the debate civilised, to be reasoned, and to speak on the basis of facts, not on the basis of emotions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69715	Right on the line, Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69716	Thank you. Here, I'd like to thank Mr. Martinovic as well. He just said everything I really mean. And I agree from the first to the last word with him. I can agree, too, that the discussion of the previous pay phone that spoke before Mr. Martinovic is interesting and funny and that is what it serves, only to entertain viewers and to have few facts and truths. I can't keep quiet that they need us to learn something, or listen to thesis swaps. We know very well what we write and what we do and what it refers to, how the law is deleted and how it will not exist, there is no need for them to teach us that. We have proven that we know and we write laws and we change them and we work on them and the laws bring you results. What really provoked me to say, even though I wanted to maybe let it pass, is, as I said, they wrote in the amendment – deleted. And I said this amendment would make sense to propose something else. If you delete one member, come on, suggest. If they don't propose, in that part, any other better solution, according to them, then it's written in an explanation and what did you think if it was deleted, then what? And then they say -- the amendments of this member will also not contribute to the improvement of the law, in addition, the proposed changes are in the interest of a small number of people, predicting the issue of building permits and also, basically, the law is bad and is holding back the legalisation process. What does this law have to do with legalization? This is the Law on Planning and Construction, a law that passed new permits, a law concerning legalisation, which was within the Law on Planning and Construction, the Constitutional Court brought down in 2013. You could hear it, very clearly, and I said it loudly in my opening address. The law that is before us today, or amendments that are before us today, refers to the Law on Planning and Construction. The law relating to legalisation, or legislation, is a special law that we passed in 2016. So if you want to give us speeches about not knowing what we're doing, not being written, then you learn what you want to teach us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69717	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69718	I'm advocating Article 162 and I as a distinguished colleague of Radet to call on your political experience, and above all from the presidency. You were to act in accordance with Article 27(1) and, above all, Article 162(1) indent 4. We cannot really tolerate that, as chairman of the National Assembly, from there do not maintain the education of Katarina Rakic and any other person who does not know the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly. If the lady has not prepared herself to defend the position of Zorana Mihajlovic, who has rejected these amendments, and to defend this caucus law, whose amendment we have today for the fourteenth time, then you should have said, colleague Arsic, that it clearly stands in this indent what we wanted with this amendment. So, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, which you did not want to change for four years, every SRS MP said clearly and loudly in the explanation that the law is bad and that the application of such a solution, to learn something from Mrs Rakic, if this change were accepted, further made the situation worse for all those to whom the law would apply. So, Mrs. Rakic, the next time you criticize what you say -- it's deleted, it's not just regular two words, it's the essence of someone's political attitude. Since you're some politician at the beginning, you'll learn, I guess for a while, if you and Zoran are in the next extraction round at Vukic has some kind of influence.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69719	Since I am obliged to answer you, as far as I know, my colleague Verica Radeta is a graduate lawyer, further on, my colleague Aleksandar Martinović is a doctor of legal science, and Katarina Rakic is also a graduate lawyer, and I do not want to interfere in the professional debate between lawyers, and I also recommend that you do. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No, and now again according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Again in the Rules of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69720	Article 32(1) and Article 27(2) I don't know what you're an expert for, since you didn't answer your colleagues' questions yesterday, and you're not always in charge of your profession. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is no expert body. This is a parliament where MPs need all their knowledge, whether like Mrs Jadranka Jovanovic, they recognize artists of the world rank or as co-worker Violeta doctors or any other profession. So everyone must and is responsible to the people and citizens of Serbia for knowing the Rules of Procedure, however bad it is, and you did not want to change it, and in order for you to be in the role of the chairman you must have, not elemental, but complete knowledge. In case you are unable to do so, Mr. Arsic, you have a legal expert by your side again, you need him, Mr. Smiljanić, to assist you in the presidency and in deciding whether the Rules of Procedure is injured and whether you have done it wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69721	My colleague Jovanovic, if I were to act as you wish, I would violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 107(2), which refers to the fact and assessment relating to the private life of other persons. I don't want to bid on anyone who's got a degree, who's some kind of sexual definition, whether it's minority, majority, etc. That's really not what I do. I don't think that's what the National Assembly should be doing. I just said I didn't want to get involved in a professional debate between three lawyers. My knowledge of law is general, and theirs is truly high. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The Right to Replica has a People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69722	Some MPs are not worth educating or trying at all. If someone says there's a pay phone here, it's really something amazing. It's some kind of special level of communication. No one's fighting a personal war here. If we were fighting a personal war, Mr. Martinovic, I might be talking about maybe your 7th paid allowance, where you signed your own decision yesterday, but we're not really dealing with it. We are dealing with what is proposed by this law. Yes, we are dealing with the character Zorana Mihajlovic because it is a public secret in Serbia that Zorana is a spy in the government of the Republic of Serbia and that is what some MPs from the government are talking about and writing about. So we're not making anything up. As for the results of Zorana Mihajlovic's work, she said yesterday or two days ago that when it comes to the bill that they are not Zorana's laws, they are government laws. I guess those corridors, if not the Wolfs, are also Vlad's score? I mean, I mean, I don't mean to say anything nice about Vucic, but that was his engagement, not the engagement of Zorana Mihajlovic. I repeat what I said two days ago. The only "Bechtel" is her credit where the budget is damaged by 300m euros. It's her fault. As far as relations with Republika Srpska are concerned, the truth is, you said in the end that you think that we share the view of Republika Srpska and it is true. None of you like Republika Srpska any more than we do. I'm not saying that you love her any less, but when it comes to Zorana Mihajlovic and her relationship with Republika Srpska, if you want, we can talk about it, and it will probably be during the day of the place and the debate, she tried it in Republika Srpska and was expelled from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69723	The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69724	I could now say that your president also tried in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so he failed, so he came to Belgrade. (Milorad Mircic: He was born in the heart of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is. He was born in the heart of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's right, Milorad. You're all right. There's only one thing, Mrs. Radeta. What you've said about my abbeys, to tell you the truth, has already become degutant. Yesterday I tried to explain to your colleague Nemanja Sarovic, but he doesn't seem to be worth anything to explain, he is a man who is scarred and doesn't speak rationally, but speaks because he doesn't personally tolerate someone. There's no such thing as my application. I was appointed by the Serbian government in November 2019 as its representative at the University of Pristina Council with a temporary seat in Kosovo, Mitrovica. What a nice and pleasant job it is, otherwise it's not paid, I just want to let you know that I'm so-called. Kosovo police, when I went to Kosovo Mitrovica last week, held for more than an hour at a crossing and then called Pristina and allegedly waited for approval whether or not I could enter the AP Kosovo and Metohija territory. I accepted that function, not because it was paid, it was not paid, it was not paid to anyone, it did not turn out that it was not paid to me alone, it was not paid to anyone who was a member of the University of Kosovo Mitrovica Council, Professor Marko Atlagic, but I accepted this job because, as much as I can, as the president of the parliamentary group, as a MP, as a public figure, to help the University of Kosovo Mitrovica and the Serb people living in our southern Serbian province, who has no other place to look, but to look in Belgrade, in the government of Serbia and in the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. Since you keep talking about Zorana Mihajlovic being a traitor, tell me what she has betrayed? What did Zorana Mihajlovic betray? That's how you claimed Alexander Wolf is a traitor. What did Alexander Wolf betray? So you claimed that Aleksandar Vukic was about to sign some paper denying the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Where's that paper? Speak in the "Balkan spy" language. You find spies in the government of the Republic of Serbia and now Alexander Vukic is so politically blind that he would put someone who was an American spy in the government of Serbia or anyone else's foreign spy. You think SNS is a party that would tolerate something like that. I'm telling you again, there's no need to speak that language. Zorana Mihajlovic is not a traitor. Zorana Mihajlovic is not anyone's spy. You can love her or you can't love her. You may like it or not like its wardrobe, but the results of the ministry's work and the results of the government that Zorana Mihajlović belongs to... (President: You are bringing the end, colleague Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... They're so obvious that I don't think there's any need to specifically quote. Only one who doesn't want to see see new highways, new railways, new corridors doesn't see that our passengers are safer, that we have less dead heads on the highways, that the Ibar highway is no longer a cemetery of cars, trucks and dead people, that now from Belgrade to Cačka you can reach Zlatibor within an hour, to Zlatibor in an hour and a half. You can cross all of Serbia along and across in a few hours, which until a few years ago was impossible. So the results are obvious. And let's talk about the results. It would be good to hear what you're proposing, so that your results will be even better. But if your only argument against Zorana Mihajlovic is her dressing room, please excuse me, I don't see any of you dressing up in "sekend hand" shops. It's not the cheapest wardrobe either. Tomislav Nikolic took off his shoe in time and showed that 700-euro famous shoe. Are we going back to that year 2008 now? Take off our shoes, jackets, shirts, and see who's more marked? That doesn't make any sense. (President: I thank you. ) Let us speak with argument, speak civilisedly, and finally restore to this Assembly the dignity he must have, both by the Constitution and by the law and by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69725	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69726	You say, Mr. Martinovic, so-called. Kosovo police kept me at the administrative crossing for an hour, unfortunately they won't let me cross at all. Not only there, but they won't let me out of Serbia. But I'm not complaining about it, I'm just saying. Don't ever, please, repeat such a great lie again that we once claimed that Vukic wanted to sign something for Kosovo's surrender. We keep saying that we hope that something like this will never happen. That's our attitude. As for Zorana Mihajlovic, I really thought at first that my colleague Martinovic was defending Zorana Mihajlovic. However, he insists that I continue what I started, related to the Republika Srpska. We must remind ourselves that Zorana Mihajlovic was a member of the Labus sect G-17. Yeah, sects, because he was a member of the Scientological Sect back then, that's common knowledge. Were you all in that group that you were, I don't know. And as long as Labus and Dinkic and everyone who cooperated with them do not go to prison and plead criminally, Serbia will not be free of crime because they are the source and start of all major criminal activities in the country of Serbia. Then Labus, when he couldn't deal with Zoran anymore, then he recommended that Milorad Dodik, as a great expert, go to his office. And she was at Milorad Dodik's office for a short time, and he said, "My people, what have you sent me -- that I don't use the expression that he used -- this, please, return as you know and know." And then Zorana Mihajlovic returned to Serbia. Here she didn't know where or what she was going to do, so via Vilibad Eric, she joined the Serbian Progressive Party. Not to remind you, Mrs. Mihajlović, I see you smiling, how his wife at the Ju Business Center was doing your hairstyle, but it's something of your own, and then through Dusan Stupara, who was at the time a SNS financier and Tom's friend, Zorana became something important in the SNS. Now, that, my dears, is the way of Zorana Mihajlovic to this place where she is now. And where she's betrayed and how much of a spy she is, Mr. Martinovic, I say you know it well, but you have some obligation to talk like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69727	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69728	I was convinced that the exclusive to the citation of tabloids and Milovana Brkić has Bosko Obradovic, Alexic, Marinika Tepic and similar. Now I see you've reached the tabloids, too, and you're using Milovan Brkic's arguments. For the sake of the public and for the sake of Serbian citizens, in the end, Zorana said herself, the only party she belonged to before the SNS was the G-17 Plus party. And it's no secret. Like some of you before the SRS were in some other political parties. Your SRS is not the first party you've joined. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic was a adviser to Milorad Dodik and came to Republika Srpska for his invitation to help him define the strategy of Republika Srpska's energy development. And whenever Milorad Dodik is in Belgrade, he is seen, among other things, not only with, of course, the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, but also with Zoran Mihajlovic. This means that Zorana Mihajlovic has achieved some, and not small, significant results in Republika Srpska, in times that were very difficult for the Republika Srpska. Let me remind you, Mrs Radeta, that was the time when the High Representative in BiH replaced more than a thousand officials throughout Republika Srpska, from the president of municipalities to ministers in Republika Srpska's government with a decree. At the time, Zorana Mihajlovic was with Milorad Dodik, was in Banja Luka and was in Republika Srpska, at one bad time after Republika Srpska and in one bad time after the Serbian people in Republika Srpska and one of the reasons why Zorana Mihajlovic had to leave Republika Srpska was also the pressure of foreign embassies and the high representative in BiH -- what will the staff from Belgrade do to you and what will the personnel from Serbia do to you. It was the process of devastation of BiH and the withdrawal of the Dayton responsibilities of Republika Srpska. At the time, Zorana Mihajlovic was in Banja Luka. Where every one of you has been, you know it best. That's how much Zorana Mihajlovic is a traitor. As for Alexander Vukic, I don't know if there is any internal discrepancies in your party and some internal electricity at all, but I heard and heard all the MPs say that Nemanja Sarovic has said several times that Aleksandar Vukic is a traitor and is about to sign some binding agreement that the Republic of Serbia will give up KIM for joining the EU. That's what he said several times. However, you did not say that, but he said, as he did yesterday at a session of the Administrative Committee, which is back in college with your official policy, because you also supported the Serbian list in the KIM Assembly elections, yesterday his argument was against me and that, together with me, at the University of Pristina Council Goran Rakic, the mayor of Kosovo Mitrovica, and it was marked by the minority -- there is that one, Goran Rakic, the traitor, from the Serb list, here and put him to be the representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia at the University Council of Kosovo Mitrovica. I ask you again - what was issued by Zorana Mihajlovic, what did Aleksandar Vukic, who is a famous signed papri signed so that the Republic of Serbia lost some of its share? Everything we lost we lost before the government was formed in 2012 and nothing Zorana Mihajlović sold, as Alexander Vukic did not sell. Some others were selling. Vuk Jeremic, along with that Rocen, broke the Serbia-Montenegro State Community, so now we have what we have in Montenegro. Yellow and Vojislav Kostunica... (President: I thank Mr. Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... I end up, it was those who didn't move their fingers in 2008 when the raptors declared a false state in KIM, not Aleksandar Vukic and Zorana Mihajlovic, and we are now facing the consequences of their policy. We are now trying to reset the situation to KIM, also to help the Serbian people in Montenegro, also to help the Serb people in Republika Srpska, but also to the Serb people in the Federation of BiH. And you say now -- you're traitors, you give up this part of the Republic of Serbia, in the Serbian government, foreign spies. Fortunately, if such spies had sat in the Serbian government in 2004, in 2006, in 2008, we would not have had a pogrom on KIM, we would not have had the declaration of independence of KIM, we would not have the ruling of the International Court of Justice, the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro would not have fallen apart, and these militants would not now attack the Holy Vasili Ostrosko and other saints in Montenegro. But these are the consequences of the policy that was led until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69729	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69730	Let's get out of this neighborhood, I don't know why you're bringing Wolf Jeremic into this debate and his betrayal and his politics. We've never... (Vladimir Orlic: Because you are also with him in the coalition in Old Town. Don't throw it away. We, I'm talking to my colleague, Martinovic, who knows what I'm talking about, we've never said anything different than that. In the book "Vikliks Tells Me 2", issued by the SRS with the signature of Vojislav Seselj, I personally wrote the preface and gave all the details and wrote and quoted Vuk Jeremic as publishing Serbian national interests. There's nothing you can say to us and don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. As for Republika Srpska, we know perfectly well, and you know, Mr Martinovic, that this high representative and Serbian radicals were being removed from power and you know that an SRS MP did not want to leave the office for 48 hours when constitutional changes were at stake and you know how much we fought there and we know what the result was and how it was at that time in Republika Srpska. Unfortunately, this high representative is still trying to be there, and fortunately, Dodik is well opposed to him and has our support, as far as it goes. Zorana, you say, went there to help with the energy of Dodik and Republika Srpska. The only thing I don't know is why you got her out of energy, so through this law, she provides for the assignment of building permits without the design documentation for mini-electric power plants, which, by the way, began to build at the time of her ministry in that vault. That's one reason why we're against this law. As for the fact that Nemanja Sarovic said that Vukic is a traitor, that is simply not true. Bring a stenogram, read, Nemanja Sarovic talked about being only party, I'm talking about what you said yesterday that he said, that only party-like people, party members are similar for certain functions, for certain jobs. Nemanja Sarovic has now told you, Mr Martinovic, he called on the phone, if you find out that he said yesterday that Vukic is a traitor, that he is ready to withdraw from politics, and he asks you to do the same if he does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69731	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69732	Unlike Nemanje Sarovic, I, Mrs Radeta, still respect you as one serious politician. Nemanja Sarovic, yesterday, I mean, this is already degutant, because it is not very interested in the citizens of Serbia, but since we have already touched this topic, Nemanja Sarovic called yesterday for a solution of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but very selectively. He read my name, for me it is doubtless a political figure, and he read the name Goran Rakic, the mayor of Kosovo Mitrovica, who is part of the Serbian List and who is one of the Serb people's leaders of KIM, but did not read the other names appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For example, I do not know if Darko Laketic is there, he did not read the name of Professor Milan Milisavljevic, the largest, best Serbian anatom, a regular professor of the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, who otherwise teaches both in Foca and at the Faculty of Medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica and who has nothing to do with SNS. So the Serbian government did not manage any party resolutions, but rather made sure that at the University of Kosovo Mitrovica Council, we, who are representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Education and the University of Pristina, were able to assist this university, that we, who are representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are a bond between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Education and the University of Pristina with the temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica. And whether one of your MPs said whether Alexander Vukic was a traitor - yes, I tell you for who knows which time, that's what Nemanja Sarovic said. Because there's a problem with some of your MPs. You can't overcome that personal relationship with a man and you're mentally still in 2008, and now it's 2020. You are still dealing with topics that are no longer absolutely interested in anyone in the Republic of Serbia, except you. But, well, that's your right, I'm not getting involved in it. Now I ask you again – what was issued by Zorana Mihajlovic while she was in the government of Republika Srpska, or an adviser to the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, and what did she issue while the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? As for the mini power plant, here I am now risking it to be my personal position, not the position of the SNS and not the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I personally don't understand a hickey being led against a mini power plant. We want green energy, so what's the alternative to mini power plants? Nuclear power plants? The thermal power plants? How do we produce? Well, it's a hydropower plant. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let me tell you something, you have completely bought the narrative that is being placed on us by Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradović. It is their thesis that the mini power plants are now the biggest danger to Serbian citizens. A professor at the University of Schumar in Belgrade who is now campaigning against mini power plants, wrote a study a few years earlier saying that mini hydropower plants are the best solution for the Republic of Serbia because they do not pollute the environment, because they produce enough electricity. Then for personal reasons, he completely changed his attitude and now he's the main protagonist against mini power plants.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69733	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Right on the line, the peoples of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69734	You are trying to introduce yourself to Mr. Martinovic as a nice and reasonable conversationalist, you are degutantly doing this or what, and it is not degutant to you that for the second time today, and otherwise you are doing it quite regularly, the SRS is putting on your mind something that has nothing to do with us, that you are trying to even us with those against whom we have always been and in our ranks we do not have their members, as you have their ministers and various other officials. We never said we were against the mini power plants explicitly. Two days ago I said that and you were sitting here. (Vladimir Orlic): Now you said, two minutes ago. ) Therefore, in this law it says that for mini hydropower plants, construction permits will be issued without planning documentation. We argue that it can't be done in this way, until this law, when the campaign against these mini power plants was conducted, representatives of the SRS also participated in some villages. In Pirot, for example, our people even organized these activities against the construction of that mini power plant. So, we think the mini power plants should be built. We need renewable energy, fully aware of the conditions on the planet, conditions in Serbia, etc. But it can't go to anyone's head, it can't do the nicest bits of river and river, it can't destroy little rivers, or words in places where there's only one source. For these mini power plants, it must be professionally determined where it is possible to build, not to be in populated areas. You want, or Zoran, or someone who weighs it, to build it right in populated places to make it cheaper for them, because it's expensive for them to do it there in other places. So, the mini hydropower plants, yes, it's an SRS attitude, but not where some tycoon likes it, but where really the profession and science finds it possible, and in no way threatens the local population. That's our attitude, and I'd just like to ask that we can talk about it, and not now that you're evening us with those who walk and don't walk, so they won't go to the election, so they want to go to the elections, and you're asking them to try to get them out of here first, so you're asking them to come back, etc. We're not in that story. We don't care about that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69735	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69736	For the sake of the public. First, no SNS is asking anyone to return to parliament or to ask anyone to go to the elections. The election will be legitimately out of Dragan Gilas or not out. As far as I'm concerned, let him do what he wants, it's only important that his butt and black shirt Bosko Obradovic don't carry out acts of physical violence, and everything else is allowed. The law doesn't treat mini power plants at all, it treats biomass plants. That's two completely different things. I had the impression that you tried to be part of a campaign that scares citizens of Serbia with mini power plants, as Serbian citizens feared a few days ago that Serbia was the most polluted country in Europe, the most polluted country in the world, as we breathe the air from which we will all die in a day or two, etc. It was an unfeeling campaign that lasted a few days. See now that the weather's up, today's a nice and bright day, no one's talking about it anymore. No one is talking about Serbia being the most polluted country anymore. Where are those great experts who convinced us that we'd all get cancer, leukemia, that our children would die of lung function, etc. I don't hear any more of them. Now the main theme on "N1" is why "N1" has been downloaded from some cable operators. As far as I'm concerned, it should never have been because it's an entirely illegal and wild television, but now that we're not getting into that subject, there are some MPs who understand it a lot more than I do. So far, mini power plants have been built in Serbia, and I hope it will be the case and future in accordance with the legal procedure, not where someone is wanted. So there is no need to scare the citizens of Serbia that now this law will allow someone to create mini power plants by jeopardising nature, living world, some protected parts of the Republic of Serbia, which are of particular natural importance, natural beauty, etc. That's not gonna happen. And, you and we, we don't have a spare country except for Serbia, and you and we love it and we work on having, among other things, enough electricity produced in one environmentally acceptable way. Those who run the campaign against the mini power plants, I don't mean you, but those who run the campaign against the mini power plants, they can't tell us, and what's the alternative to hydropower plants. They're not working on atomic power plants, I agree. The power plants don't work, I agree, and now they don't even work on hydroelectric power plants. Where are we going to produce electricity? So we can no longer be exporters of electricity as we are now, we can no longer energy and we can no longer help the Serbian people in KIM, we can no longer help the Republic of Serbia. Let's shut down all electrical power facilities. All right, just tell me where we'll be producing electricity if none of these are good. It's a back-up crazy campaign run by people who took big money for months, which Serbian citizens should know, they took a lot of money from the EU to make projects that prove that mini power plants are the best solution for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69737	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69738	Three things only. First of all, as far as we're scaring the people, we're neither a grandma of horns nor a scare of the people. We express our political attitudes which are as they are, whether the people respond in one way or another to what we say, you or anyone else, so let the people say and judge and evaluate. As for this fascist, Boška Obradovica, we were the first to say that he is Ljotic, a fascist ideology. From this place, you may also be colleagues with Arsic, but I do not argue, we have been warned multiple times when we say Ljoticevic, a fascist, there have been many times – please, we will not be offended. So, we were just stating the facts. You weren't interested in it then, because he was sitting on Scott's orders at the time. We said he wasn't allowed into the National Assembly because he didn't have a 5% censorship. You didn't even accept to examine it until the end. When he entered with that motor saw, we also said that he should have been arrested for example, so that everything that was going on in Belgrade wouldn't have happened any further. You didn't do it either. So, we don't have a problem saying, Bobba Bob, Pop Pop. And you never knew that well, we never had that problem. We never talk to each other, we talk to each other, because we estimate that we need to be heard in public. As for "N1", I have to say that I am much more bothered that this SBB has abolished Republika Srpska's programmes than it has kept "N1", because "N1" can watch and you don't have to, but for example, it bothers me that the SBB has abolished BN's programmes, RTRS and I have therefore publicly invited everyone on Twitter to wipe off that cable network just because they have abolished my Republika Srpska programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69739	Thank you. Legally at the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69740	Here's a subject that you and I agree on. So, I totally agree with what you said, SBB is a cable distributor owned by Dragan Solak, business partner Dragan Gilas. It is he who is one of the main promoters of "N1" television and the main campaign promoters against Alexander Vukic, against the SNS, against the government of the Republic of Serbia because some other cable operators downloaded the programme and fake cross-border TV "N1" from their channels. I think it's a good solution and it's a good move, because the TV is on New Belgrade, it's not in Luxembourg, it's not recasting anything, it's broadcasting a programme from a study in New Belgrade. My personal opinion that this television has never even done business in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. When they meet the legal requirements, as far as I'm concerned, they should be on any cable operator and have that TV watch whoever they want, but they have to meet the same conditions that meet all the other televisions with the national frequency. So, it's not any television from Luxembourg, no television from Slovenia, it's television that exists and works in the Republic of Serbia, they have a studio in New Belgrade, and how they do business, how they finance their financial reports, how they transfer money from one company to another, how they launder money, how they avoid their tax obligations to the Republic of Serbia, my esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic has spoken of it many times. They are much better understood in that matter than I am, but we agree that it is scandalous that Dragan Solak has downloaded the programme of Republika Srpska television from his cable operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69741	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69742	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the distinguished Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, I like to say that statistics are inexorable, and statistics point to successes and good results and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, and especially to co-operation with local self-government. What I want to take the opportunity to talk about very often is to say something from this place about what was done in the local self-government that I come from, or to ask some questions. I want to talk about the airport now and point things out to you. So, not only because of you, because you have all this information, and you know, but also because of the public, because of the citizens of Serbia, but mainly because of the citizens of Nis, some of whom have questioned the existence of a airport. As we can see, the airport in Nis exists, located in the same place, wasn't abducted by the state from Nisli, or taken home. In 2019, the airport had more than 422 thousand passengers, and in 2018 about 350,000 passengers. That just means the state helped develop the airport in the right direction. Thanks to the launch of lines of public interest and the arrival of ER Serbia in Nis, today it is possible to fly to twice as many destinations as before the takeover of airports by the state. I also have to say that the most remarks made by passengers on the building and internal content were made public procurement for the construction of project-technical documentation for the construction of five thousand squares of the new building and, of course, we need support from the government. However we turn, we come to you to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to ask for support for some things that would really not make sense if such local self-government were expected to single out such amounts. So, the equipment was exhausting, the city didn't have the means to finance everything, Serbia's airports weren't able to meet all these needs themselves, because on the one hand the airport tax wasn't big, and the more passengers, on the other hand, the bigger the needs and the higher the costs. I also want to say that it is good to develop other airports in Serbia. In this way, Serbia's airports will get the form they were founded for, which is one-stop shop management, which has proved to be the best practice in the world. This year, I want to say, the state has allocated a large amount, which is 654 million dinars for the airport. I'm going to take another chance to appeal to you to make more money, because that way, more quality will be managed at the same time and from one place. Both you and we here and the management of Serbia's airport, we're all here for the citizens, because they chose us and expected us, which is logical, to work in their interest. In that sense, I want to give you some impressions, and that's very important -- that people are satisfied. They're satisfied with the better conditions they're working on. Also, I'll remind you that there were 110 employees, and now 250 employees, and those people who work there know that the airport has a future. As far as passengers are concerned, something that would seem small to us, but it's not really small, it's helping all people who travel or who wait for someone, it's of great importance that the parking price is reduced and that free parking is increased to 15 minutes. It's actually easier to operate passengers and to stay at the airport. The management also signed a contract to rent land to build a tower. So it's a contract that Nis and Serbia have been waiting for years and all of this shows how far we're actually making progress. It has not been invested in infrastructure development for decades, and this is the most important prerequisite for the arrival of companies that will fly from Nis as well. What is the satisfaction of the ministry, we can say that in 2019 it is really going to be recorded in the history of central and western Serbia, and above all because of the airport Morava, but there is also, more importantly, for me, the satisfaction of Nisli because the airport in Nis has developed to a limit that has never been reached before. I'll take the opportunity to thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69743	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69744	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Mihajlovic and his associates, at the very beginning I would like to point out that it has been a great honor for me to attend the opening of the southern and eastern arms and the very complete completion of Corridor 10. On this occasion, I would once again like to congratulate President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, to you, Mrs Mihajlovic, on the enormous work and effort invested in building this road. We're all proud of it, because it will further contribute to the development of our country, of course, and Leskovci, the city where I come from. The town of Leskovac is significantly working on promotion and economic growth, and the main prerequisite for this is arranged traffic. Since the SNS took responsibility for the management of the town, Leskovac has received 40,000 metres of new traffic. For that purpose, 740 million dinars. In the previous year, major projects were completed, such as traffic in the green zone, Radanska and Sutjeska in the Roma settlement, the old road to Nis to the village of Brestovac, the road to Bogojevac, Miloševci-Slavujevci and the street to Bora Pesic in Grdelica were renovated, very important. We are especially proud to have solved some of the most problematic and dangerous cars such as entering the Grill, which shined with a new glow. Also reconstructed is the long-awaited road to Vlasotinc, a 283,3 million dinar road, as well as a tour around the Holy Cemetery worth 21 million dinars. We are particularly proud of the great number of our fellow citizens' dream we have begun to turn into a public one. In October of last year, it began with the construction of the central city square, and the residents of Leskovac will receive a new multi-functional meeting place and the town's marking in 360 days. This capital investment is worth 223 million dinars. A large investment that awaits us when it comes to low construction is the reconstruction of Bulevar Nikola Pasic and the completion of the bypass around the town of Leskovec. The city has set aside 90 million dinars for expropriation on the Boulevard. To complete this investment, the government will invest 165m dinars, a major step towards building a bypass around Leskovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69745	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69746	Honorable Madam Ministers with Associates, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, firstly as a member of the Assembly Committee on Construction and Traffic to make it my pleasure that the Government is ready to accept amendments and arguments from the MPs, first of all. What colleagues have already mentioned in the previous part, it is one of the concerns that has led to a great controversy of the public, and that is whether these amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction related to the Mini-Horizon have been clearly defined by the amendment that the Government has accepted. Once again, let me repeat for the public and for all of us, that this is absolutely not about mini hydrothermia, but only about biomass plants. That's what I want to underline, just to make it clear to everyone. Let me just take this opportunity to ask you, Madam Minister, two things. You mentioned in the principle debate here that an idea project for the highway "Vozd Karadjordje", which will connect Central Forest with other parts of Serbia, will work next year. All right, if it's this one, then that's even better, but let me ask you something. As early as 2003, the CIP Transport Institute made an idea project of a fast "Schumadian highway" and this is one project that I have tried here several times on the tide and on the Traffic Committee to mention as one roadway of vital importance for the Central Forest, which would connect five forest municipalities from Mladenec, Arandelovac, Topola, Gornji Milanovac and Sopota and connect two corridors, Corridor 10 of Mali Povorec with Corridor 11 via Takova. Whether it's being considered at the Ministry, when we're making plans and projects by 2025, because for us, it would be more important and more important than the highway that would go through that part of the forest. And on the other hand, one more thing to ask you – we voted here in 2014 in the Assembly for exactly projects that will be financed from the project of co-financing of the reconstruction of three thousand kilometers of state roads, first and second order of loans from the European and World Bank. We then listed all the routes and voted for them in 2014 to point out in the previous meeting. "Serbian roads", certain directions are selectively working and changing. And now I ask you, as Minister of Transport, whether "The Ways of Serbia", and here are your associates who believe that they know or do not know whether they are selectively changing directions and adding and subtracting from something that has been stated in the Assembly. I would like, above all, to be interested in, the car, the Kragujevac – Topola, or Topola – Kragujevac, where it was supposed to be finished in 2017, and it is working very partially today, not to say to the people's dictionary very slowly and very weighty. And that's why someone should be responsible. You, together with me, announced the completion of the construction of the traffic station in 2016, which is the oldest highway in Šumadia, which was still built by King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. When he was building that direction to connect the old capital of Kragujevac with the new capital of Belgrade. And that is a very important direction for all of us who are in this part of Serbia and the Forest. And that's why I'm asking you to just explain it to us, because I think that some things simply the Ministry may not be able to wash out in the right way, and certain public enterprises are making mistakes that you end up responding to and you end up suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69747	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69748	You're right. With regard to the amendment that the Serbian Government accepted in the Law on Planning and Construction, in order to only specify once more, the draft law does not mention anywhere and does not say the explicits of small hydropower plants, but that there would be no confusion and that people would not simply think that amendments to the law are being made because of it, but in the amendment we have just accepted the amendment of the SNS, that they are exclusively biomass plants within the agricultural land, so I don't think there is any confusion there. As for the highway and the fast traffic "Karajordje driver", to be clear, an idea project will be done this year, but by still having two options and two variants. Whether it's all going to be a highway or there's going to be parts where there's going to be a highway, and the parts where there's going to be a fast traffic, so there's still not a complete map of exactly where the highway is going to go – the fast traffic "the driver of Karajordje" and in any case, such a project is much wider than what you've just mentioned. We know, we have all the documentation from earlier periods, and I think it's better to always look at it, if we are able and financially in the budget now, that we can think about bigger projects and meet the needs of more citizens of Serbia, then somehow we've identified ourselves for the highway, the fast traffic "Karajordje" train. As for the project of the large one, which we have defended here in the Assembly, which is the loans of the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is thousands of kilometers of roads, which are mostly highways in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and I can say that around 50% of the credit has been used somewhere, and not by mistake or by the problems of "The Way of Serbia" or the Government of Serbia, but simply seriously, first, problems with the design houses, first there was a problem, design houses that either did not occur or when they were making public calls, then they could not meet all the conditions, so some kilometers still have not ended. In particular, when you talk about Topol 2 shares – Kragujevac, shares where the end of the contract ended, first of all, of projecting and since it happened several times, that share was then excluded, because we started to do everything else that is also on the list, because we are practically on this share, so we are suffering, we have lost serious time, because we had a problem with the design houses and it would be wonderful if it were the only share where we had such problems. There were a lot of shares within this loan where we had these problems, however, since the project is going to work somewhere, somewhere not fast enough, we are also starting for local roads a new project of five thousand kilometers of roads, where practically the Ministry will be an investor in the realisation of that project and then that control will look completely different, and I think sometimes it has to be better than it was on this project, as you said. And right now, the shares you mentioned were put here, among other things, into a new five thousand-mile-long project.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69749	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69750	I'd like to thank Mrs. Minister for her reply, but there's one principle question. If we're taxing in the decision, I have it, and I believe that you have it from 2014, we've counted the roads, we've counted the lengths, if anyone can change the Assembly's decision in such a way, and at least not run the traffic resolution committee, to say, gentlemen, we have a problem with the project documentation. A lot of these routes were well done, with what was a newspaper in Serbia at the time, and this is a project in construction, where the same companies received certain shares of 20 or 30 kilometers, as was the case with Topola – Mine or Krcjevac, Arangelovac, Arangelovac – Lazarevic, etc. So there was a way to get rid of it. On the other hand, I once again ask the question, if "Serb Roads", the project cannot be realised, it was perfectly normal for the Assembly Committee that voted on it and the tide voted, carried out and said there are objective technical problems, which is why we cannot do something. That's what this is about. I am encouraged by your information that this new highway, I agree, and it's a good thing when President Vukic says, we have more resources, we're going to make a highway, but on the other hand the question is, we have a central forest as a central part of Serbia and on its left and right, two serious corridors are passing through. Do we need to have a full profile of the highway or do we need a fast car with two lanes to simply connect in the fastest possible way with Belgrade and Caca? We believe, who we live there, that we have primarily turned towards Belgrade and Cačka, much less towards eastern Serbia, and that is why it is important that this traffic station, so you called it "the fast traffic of the Karadjordje" highway or how, but it is important that it is realised as soon as possible by this so-called so-called road. Diagonals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69751	The First Amendment with corrections was filed by MP Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger, Zarko Micin, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Michaelo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69752	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I am an amendment to Article 1. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction, where I added a point to point 27, in objects where municipal infrastructure facilities are defined, added concepts – AP and the Republic of Serbia. By adopting this amendment, we have made it possible to build public-purpose facilities, such as schools, hospitals, homes for the elderly, all of those objects that are very important for a local self-government, which will be built by the AP or the Republic of Serbia, on the territory of local self-government, and for which permission is issued by the local administration itself. The adoption of this amendment allows in my town of Novi Sad, the continuation of the investment cycle that Mayor Milos Vukevic started and thanks to which it was built 25km of road in Novi Sad. That sounds a little bit, but it's actually a lot, because these paths were built right in suburban settlements where people lived in the mud. Also, it was built over 200km of sewerage in these suburban cities, where it was also built for people for years, before the SNS came to power, only promised, and we built as many as 200km of sewerage, where we finish the music and ballet school, where we finished three new boulevards in Novi Sad. This amendment will allow for further investment. Thank you, Madam Minister, for having heard and hearing about such things, for hearing about the needs of local self-government and for investing. It is certainly normal, because you are part of the Alexander Vukic team, thanks to which we have a new 350km highway in Serbia today, thanks to which we have more than 52,000 active sites in Serbia today, which was once really unimaginable. Thank you to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69753	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69754	Dear Minister, for the last time in this session, I would like to ask you to look at the problem of the airport in Divci, so Valjevo airport. It takes small funds to pave the runway, which was prepared 20 years ago, to pave the way, which is currently a mile and a half long, but which can be extended to Valjevo by another kilometer, etc. So, I'd like to ask you to send one team, so that this team can professionally see it, that it's paved, that it's being put into use, because for the development of tourism in Divchibari, it would mean a lot more than this time, it would mean a lot to the development of the economy. On the other hand, I was discussing the Valjevo airport company telling you that the problem is ownership, it's a stock company. The main one was reduced, and the share of shareholders was artificially increased, so when a partial account was applied they were made difficult, not to say, criminal mistakes. Everyone knows that, and I'm telling you this now, I've talked about it more than once, because I think it's in your office and in my office, and probably... that you look. We talked about it, but nothing was ever done. So I ask you for the last time to send an expert team, to look at the possibilities, because it is a shame that this airport in Divcjev, or Valjevo, is not being used, and it is very necessary for the development of tourism and for the development of the economy of the city of Valjev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69755	The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69756	Dear Ambassador Jokic, yes, we have spoken many times. So, the runway's earthy, there's no place. If we really wanted to do what you think we should do then we'd have to do it elsewhere, not where that runway is now. But what's good for all is that four, five years ago, no one talked about small airports, we now have "Serbian Airport", so besides Nis, Kraljes, Silver Lake, Kruševec, the Ponics already within the company, there will be a Borski airport, therefore, there are opportunities. It's no longer a problem if we have the resources to invest in small airports, it's a matter of strategy where they really are needed, what exactly are needed and, of course, then investment. So, I'm not sure that runway you're talking about right now is her place. If we continue to develop and talk about it, we'll change the place and then Valjevo's next to going out on the highway that we start working on in March, Valjevo-Iverak stock is about, we'll talk about both the possibility and the need for some small airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69757	The word is made by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Jokic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69758	Dear Minister, there is no better place than the Giants. I don't know if you can find a better place around Valev than the Giants. The savages are an imaginary place for it and it's not since yesterday, it's back 100 years and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69759	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69760	Here, for how many days now a new affair has been shaken by the public of Serbia and today should be said that Zorana Mihajlovic, in fact, is a transformed spy of foreign embassies, which is also known to anyone who is serious in the SNS. And besides laughing at it, of course, none of you will cry soon when it is decided by Alexander Vukic to release a series of water, except, possibly, co-workers who are defending it today, but we can't talk about how the amendment has been decided to refer to the thermoelectrics for renewable energy sources on bio-mass without mentioning the affairs. So in custody there is Miroljub Jeftic, who puts the burden on Zorana Mihajlović and her boyfriend, because I don't think you have a husband, a partner, as you already call it in your modern concept of life, that he took along a percentage of the bribes and corruption in the railway infrastructure. You told the media and here you had nothing to do with it. If this were a serious state and the D.A.'s office is doing its job right, since really bodies like, first of all, the BIA and the Anti-Organized Crime Administration are doing their job, you wouldn't be sitting here today and not explaining these amendments and additions to the law at all, you'd be waiting to give a statement to the D.A. and to answer all these charges where they're supposed to be answered. A very important question for Serbian citizens is what kind of epilogue all of this will be. If you covered all those tracks of everyone, I was talking about this friend of yours, Boris Draskovic, Director Katastra yesterday. There are your tentacles everywhere and there is your notion of politics, not like these people, who many of them really have their own attitudes and the party they have joined, as we have our ideology and endurance for 30 years. Your policy motto, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is not worth it, as counterpart Djukanovic of the Serbian Progressive Party says, because something is not as particularly valuable as he has well noted, but you have been giggling with someone else's feathers, what has the president of your party done, but when are you going to explain what we have been calling you for concrete and argumentatively, here are four years? So, rest assured, colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, here is the time ahead, and the time is coming for the election that everything we claimed about Zorana Mihajlovic will prove true. Don't defend what's indefensible. The vast majority of you are the honorable, honest people who come to work here, work for their parliamentary salaries, try to explain in the way you see it, each one of you from your own, and defend the laws that we criticise, but do not engage in what many of you may not know enough, and do not defend what is really a trade in influence and the highest possible degree of corruption that will and how to prove itself, and which is carried out by an executive authority representative, and hence also by the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69761	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69762	Since this was a direct address to Serbian Progressive Party MPs, right, you've already heard, I just don't know if you understand that it's absolutely unacceptable for us, first of all, to give the views that spies are sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it's pronounced with such an easyness, such non-chalantity, that it's just as if you said – this morning we came to a session and we didn't read anything, and we know that you didn't, but we came to talk about what we normally want to talk about because we don't see another sense of politics or of staying in the National Assembly, which we all know is true, because when you start a session, and so you started today by talking about it – we're going to talk about this amendment because we don't like the Minister. We will now explain that we have submitted the amendment because we do not love the minister. We're going to talk all the worst about the law now because we don't like the minister. Now, that's the words you started the day with today. It is clear to us that what is clear to everyone who sees this is that you here today announce how much you just don't love the minister. What does any of us need to say about this amendment or any other amendment that matters at all? What does any of us have to say about something that's been filed just so you can talk for two minutes or more? This is not an amendment to the law, this is an amendment regarding what you read on the Internet this morning and in some newspaper yesterday afternoon, what did you chat about with your afternoon coffee or Sunday lunch, and that should be a problem for the National Assembly? The government of the Republic of Serbia, if you have not heard and if you do not understand, has the support of the Serbian people wherever they live. The politics of Aleksandar Vukic has absolute support for the people, not only in Serbia, but Serbs in Croatia and BiH, and in the part that is the Federation, and in which this policy also ensures survival and that people remain in their hearths, that they have a place to work, especially in Republika Srpska, and especially in Kosovo and Metohija, in Montenegro, if you are interested. And ask Serbian representatives, political representatives, relevant people, whom they see as their leader, whom they see as their protector, all will tell you the same name, all will tell you that is Alexander Vukic. And then someone finds themselves smart to say – we don't care about our interests, we don't care about the interests of the state, but we work for someone else, us, spies or something like that. You know what, since someone here mentioned elections, it can only be someone who seems absolutely to have reconciled their fate, so he doesn't expect that these elections can do anything, but spend the last seconds in the last few days of his term to drive out something of his own that he can praise tomorrow in the ruins of something that once represented his policy break, he saw how dangerous I was and how I could say anything, and the choices don't interest him. We'll, when we're elected, census to cut. We'll vote for it to be 3%. With stories like this, you know how much support you can get? It can't even be 1%. There's no good will and desire to support the development of democracy in this country that helps, about that percentage of people are interested in these things and that you've talked about in the way you've talked about. It doesn't have any politics in it, it doesn't serve anything smart. And if you think that the ducks will be more important to you, that you will be more convincing, by adding to it, to glean nicely with personal insults that are opposed to people sitting in benches, that you know, none of us, last sentence, appreciates you anymore for those disgusting things you said, and you had no face to apologize to Alexander Martinović today. We can only appreciate you less, and you choose for yourself, because as you hide yourself, it comes to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69763	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69764	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. It doesn't matter to us at all, Mr. Orlic, what you think of us individually. I can judge you as a politician. To me you're an unserious politician, you showed it today, but you're also insecure as a man, as a citizen. If you're not a citizen of this country, except for the fact that the MP, who you are, someone with a function is a SNS, asked over the fact, if you're reading, here's what you're saying. What we read and whether we're educated, let the citizens evaluate it. But if you see it and if you listen to the words of your president, but that you are a Serbian citizen, then listen to what that Alexander Vukic, the president of Serbia, says clearly and loudly to the question of journalists that he knows that not everyone thinks well in his ranks either. Then the press picked up, you dealt with the number of people who would have stabbed him in the back, so if they knew everyone wasn't willing to take the victim when he took those blows and attacked, then you'd probably be watching and who that someone was. Not that Zorana Mihajalovic will come to say - well, I'm a spy, but I'm the one who works for someone else's interests, and I'm the one who's playing with my boyfriend, so he's accusing me. She may be someone who will defend herself and provide evidence that she was not involved, but wait for the judicial authorities to do their job. Don't do that now. You mean, you're underestimating now both the BIA and other organs of the MUP that deal with what I was talking about today. We're not gonna push that under the carpet. We want to make it clear and loud – there are too many affairs and too much of what she is personally involved in. It's not our personal relationship to her. We don't care at all, because no one will ever remember her in the future when she's not a minister in this government. Boris Tadic was twice the president of Serbia, now crossing the street, no one would recognize him. So let us perform responsibly in front of the citizens, and if the citizens will show us trust, they will assess it. Surely in us they recognize the only force in Serbia that is ready to resolutely oppose any kind of crime and corruption. And finally, if you are not personally like Vladimir Orlic sufficiently informed, please contact someone who attends the highest authorities of your party, where the image and work of Zorana Mihajlović is very much talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69765	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69766	Well, since you're attending the highest authorities of our party, you'll inform me about that, probably. So, like this, one of you gets up, points your finger and says, well, this one's a spy and this one's the same, so that you determine who is, who isn't. And that's totally fine with you. And let's just say you can't talk like that, and you say you have no right, no, no, no, that's what someone else has to decide. Well, it just doesn't work that way. Elemental logic, that's the first thing, and the second is decency. I'm not gonna teach that to any of you. But to understand that that's how it works, it's gonna be hard. Besides, like we said, we can talk the same way. If you think that's useful to you, do you want to talk about what you yourself have stated in the works signed by you, claims of who is a spy and sitting in your ranks? Should we talk about these things? Do you think this will be a wonderful topic for today and that it will make Serbia most happy to hear from this hall today? Much more and more significant than having 350 kilometers of highways, it's much more important to explain to people than how much Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. I don't care how much anyone knows, doesn't know, wants to know or doesn't want to know. Shall we talk about responsibility? When you say it - you want to perform responsibly, excellent. Come on, start already. You want to fight crime, corruption and any bad phenomena in this society without compromise, excellent. Let's start again. For starters, you've got that Bastache that puts people's bags on their heads. Did you remember who that was? You forgot a few weeks ago when we talked about it, and last time you couldn't remember that, by chance, it was the same man you hold in power, the one who's recruiting around Old Town, whose envelopes are coming. That is what his closest associates say. His godfathers speak. Now, that's the same one, that's your Marco you're holding in that chair, allowing things to work. Do you want to fight crime? Do you want to fight corruption? Will you make sure that the negatives in Serbia disappear? Very good. Start with where you're first at the opportunity to do it. Start with your coalition with Gilas, Bastic, Jeremic and others, as some like to say, did the spies say, that's what you think of them. Great. So, with what you're sitting with, and that's what you're thinking, in Old Town, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69767	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69768	Well, here, from these sources that we have, we are not yet informed, that, renewable sources, every day we get fresh information, I haven't heard, or any of us, that Miroljub Jeftic has changed his statement. He said what would apply in the further process of possibly processing him, which is that he gave the bribe directly to Zorani Mihajlovic and her boyfriend, partner, to a certain Vladimir Atanakovic. Therefore, Mr. Orlic, leave us to responsibly claim what we have certain knowledge of. Whether it's true or not, I repeat again, it will show time and determine the authorities. Don't run before the ore. No one is for any MP from your ranks of SNS sitting here, we see these colleagues every day, we know who you are, what you are, how you live, from which you are the middle, that you are both criminals and spies. So no one said that about any of their colleagues, and don't replace them. But listen carefully to what we say, and first of all, we address the citizens of Serbia, not you, and finally, to the competent state authorities and the prosecution to continue to do their job responsibly. Ma'am, if she doesn't like the newspapers that write it and claim it, she's legally able to react and I believe that these people who need to do their job and invite her to give a statement about any knowledge and about what the defendant is charged with.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69769	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69770	Yeah, so now you're giving up on those claims that we're spies. Well, that's what we've been responding to. Well, now, let's pretend to be a little wiser than we are, so like we didn't say, we said something else. We've all heard very well what you've said and everyone knows what we've responded to here. You want to talk about your findings? Has it reached your circle of knowledge that the one who burned your books as a fascist is still sitting in the council of Old Town? For whom Vojislav Seselj said – if it is determined that he was doing it, it is unforgivable. If it's something of a synonym Fascism, it's burning books. Has Vojislav Seselj determined that Miljuš himself admitted to doing this? Has Vojislav Seselj established that Dragan Gilas brought Miljus, together stood in front of the cameras, and said, "We were on fire, and this one was there, but he meant nothing wrong." If you've found that and if you haven't found out, let's find out, and then show on the case of your knowledge and your famous responsibilities about how you're fighting negative phenomena in our society, so remember that Miljus isn't alone out there on that Old Town, that there are other rackets there, starting with Bastac bag, and then there's other crime scenes there, that they're allowed to do it, that the chair is being held by your councilmen who, in addition to having all kinds of furniture, get money through those companies that launder money from the Old Town Community budgets, and they're openly telling people who run these companies. Now these alarmers, it's called, are paying between us and our councilmen, so let's see these principles, let's see us at the part of that thing that you like to talk about when you point a finger at anyone without any proof. Let's do this thing that's been proven and shown to have happened, let's see how tough you are, how strong you are, how principled you are. Does it mean more to you to take that money from the people for another two months in Old Town? You know what, that 1% is as big as a house. When people see that you support it, that it's a standard of all principles, that you can't admit when you say fascism is to burn a book, and we're going to condemn it, that you can hold that word for more than one day... Perhaps at the very end, as far as all those things you plan to say in the follow-up to this debate, let me tell you one thing - you yourself are, in that sense, the greatest enemies. We won't let this turn into your attempt to completely destroy what little you have left of the ratings. We will first and foremost talk about the law today, but don't try to blame patriotism, patriotism, on what we're willing to and talk about and work for the people and for the state. To anyone who is politically SNS, our representative in the Assembly, in the Serbian Government or in any third place, Serbia will not be better off if you want to banish something that is just your own personal need in this way, but we will not allow, as far as we are aware, that it is not good that you are doing these things without suffering any political consequences, so if you want to talk further, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69771	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69772	Thank you for your suggestions, Mr. Eagle, but we really don't want to say what you're asking of us. I believe that honestly you advise us to need it one way or another, no, we will not continue to continue what we have knowledge of. So now I'm going to say a little bit, since it's a rich Serbian language, let me put it another way. Zorana Mihajlovic is a transfiguration spy for foreign intelligence services, will also show which one, and the minister who is up to his neck in corruption from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. That'll be investigated by the state authorities. I'm here as well as any SRS MP available to continue to claim that, as we've done all these years. It'll prove that we're right, I don't want to go in, there's time, this debate has just begun, and those abuses of state money, the spending on the most expensive underwear card. It's a long day. We've got time tomorrow. Who knows what else will come to us as information, Laufer is constantly working on the Jevtic case and new knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69773	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69774	Okay, if they like it so much, two sentences. First, welcome the bag of Bastac, the fascist of Miljuš, and I congratulate you for accepting that you are equal with such fascists. The second thing, you don't need any Laufer, in the book of Vojislav Seselj, is that the British spy Vojislav Seselj. That's how much all your spy stories are worth to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69775	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69776	Let's try to solve these doubts that exist in parliament when it comes to the minister's personality. She may not be interesting to many... (President: By amendment, colleague Mircic, you are not in the replica. ) What is the fact that work, operation, the minister costs this country. We have warned of the great danger of the influence of Zorana Mihajlovic in the framework of the licensing of legalisation, brought by the pure experience we have with the construction of these highways. Negligentness, ignorance of the ministry and parts of the ministry cost the state an additional 13m, when it comes to Ub-Lajkovac's share, so the Grdelička clisura additionally cost us 110m euros, so Bechtel cost us an additional 300m euros, although that is not the final figure. This is the difference between what the public has been told is that the offer from the Chinese and what the minister signed with Bechtel is. Secondly, when you speak for the defense of action and character, you must use arguments. Those of you who need to protect this country's interest, along with the opposition, should remember, it wasn't so long ago when the present minister stood with the American ambassador who told the public cameras that Kosovo and Metohija were an independent state. The least he should have done is have a representative of the government in this country leave that conference. If he couldn't react already, if he wasn't able to, at least leave his post, to show the public that unity is within the ruling coalition. Secondly, when it comes to personal respect, how does the minister in question behave to you? Prime Minister Ana Brnabic speaks for journalists, presents some data, and she turns her eyes behind it. What kind of respect is that? To be respected, you have to respect others, too, you can't do that. You're giving us a lesson here as we talk about some details or some topics that aren't directly related to this agenda point. At the same time, we're discussing a law representing the finance minister here, have you heard that Serbian radicals are insulting him? We know he was in some kind of trouble. It can happen to anyone. We appreciate that he was one of the best students at the Faculty of Economics. It happens, he's stoic about it. They canceled his doctorate, so what now? We don't abuse it. If we say so, we say in such a tone that he does not treat himself. What should we talk to the Secretary of Resorship who's in charge of this area? She singles out the brooches, and the pendants, and the dressing room. What should we talk about? We can't talk about the profession. This isn't her first ministry. Look what's left behind. A wasteland at the Ministry of Energy. Dusan Bajatovic, as a representative of the SPS and director of "Srbiagas", blackmailed, ultimatically demanded that you replace it, ruined energy. You remember these performances when she was personally incurring, with cameras in the presence of the camera officers at Elektroprivreda, to show that she is zealously doing her job, with officials, and the director of the same “Electroprivreda” steals the pits. Did they give her anything like this cheap guy, it's gonna... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69777	My colleague Mircic, I am really widely interpreting the Rules of Procedure and allowing MPs... If you're interpreting, then everything's fine. )......................................................................................................... And I do, but that doesn't mean that you can say whatever you want and whatever you want, that we understand each other. Milorad Mircic: When I had the experience that you would tell me what to say. I don't tell you what you're going to say, but I won't let... You're such a clever man. ) Do you want to continue your discussion, or are you going to throw away as the most common glider?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69778	Thank you for this qualification, Mr. Arsic. I didn't expect anything else from the chairman, that the MP behind whom it stands is 17,000, on average, the citizens' voices say -- a plasterer, that means all those who voted for the SRS, you treat them like pirates. Don't like it, Mr. Arsic. You can raise the temperature here a little bit, but you're not...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69779	By amendment, my colleague Mircic. I'm not in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69780	I have to react as a man of integrity to what you called me as a pirate. At this age, you're allowing yourself to qualify someone as...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69781	My friend Mircic, for all the ugly things you've said to me, I've watched me use the most mild term possible. Do you want to continue after the amendment or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69782	If I wasn't well-trained and I didn't have this year's experience, I'd tell you you're a fool, but I won't let myself. So, Mr. Arsic, just keep going, and good luck to you. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69783	Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69784	It's an incredible behavior of the chairman. This is an intervention under Article 27. You have no right to tell the People's Messenger if I return to you what you have told me. You're not here to take revenge in that place. You can't think that you're paying someone back now because someone told you something. When you're in the seat of a MP and you have replicas with Mircic, Verica, Mark, Janko, you can say whatever you want. We've never told you, and we've never told anyone that they can or can't be told. You have to be aware that this chair you're sitting on is carrying a little more responsibility. Listen, if I gave you back what you told me, I'd use no other expression. This is indeed something unheard of in this House, and of you as you are, it's outrageous. This interruption of the MP as he speaks of the amendment is amazing, also unacceptable. If the MP has two minutes to explain the amendment, learn once, you did it yourself, to use those two minutes by clicking and keeping quiet. This may be the attitude of the MP to the amendment and a way to explain to the citizens what he thinks about the amendment. The MP can say – I suggested that Article 56 be deleted. Law proposal because Zorana Mihajlovic is a thief and then two minutes to repeat - because Zorana Mihajlovic is a thief, because Zorana Mihajlovic is a criminal, because Zorana Mihajlovic is a spy. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69785	I will not allow you to continue to present such facts, especially without any legal basis or evidence. I understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure. However, article 106 says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Currently, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction is, in particular, an amendment to Article 4. Here's me talking about the whole law, the whole law. All areas involved in planning and building. But I can't accept talking about everything and everything. He's losing every sense. Further colleagues - during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other kind of procedure that threatens freedom of speech. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to bring out facts relating to the private life of others. Let's move on. A reminder is given to the People's Messenger, so now it's listed, etc. where other proceedings violate the order of the sitting or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. I didn't use any of that. I haven't used any of these measures. I understand my colleague Mircic can't say what he's up to and the way he wanted it to be. He could have said it in a much more correct way than he wanted. No, he meant it like he said. So I interrupted his exposure and asked him to return to the hearing in particular in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then, my colleague Radeta, I got through throwing insults. You have to bear with insults. I have to endure the insults. No, I don't have to take offense. (Miss Radeta: By the Rules of Procedure.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. Just say first whether you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on your injury to the Rules of Procedure, and then a new violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69786	I can't plead because you didn't let me talk for two minutes. Now I hope you will. It's article 107 this time. You've now shown your width. (President: up to two minutes. You didn't apply this, you didn't apply that. Mr. Arsic, you say you allow the whole law to be talked about. Listen, you allow the whole law to be talked about, and the law changes. We'll hear a lot from you today. If you say – but do not allow, what do you not allow? Something you don't like. There's no sign of the President of the Republic anywhere in the law. Nowhere in the law does the president of the largest party currently in Serbia, and every member of your party speaks of that name. We don't think it's necessary. It's your choice, your thing, and you're free to talk about it. But we don't understand why you think. It's a basic problem for you in power. You think you can do absolutely anything, and on the other hand, we can only hear as much as your subtle ears want to hear. That's not how it works. You know better than to do that. Apply the Rules of Procedure as strictly as you wish, but do not apply it strictly and we do not insist on it. Yesterday, two of me sat in that place where you're sitting. There were sharp replicas between you and the MPs of the SRS, you personally, between the minister and the MPs of the SRS, harsh words, were fairly harsh terms exchanged. It didn't occur to me to draw attention to you that you couldn't use it, because you can, because you're a people's messenger, because it's your duty to say everything you think the public needs to hear first of all. We're not talking about Zoran because she means something to us. We're talking because it's a public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69787	Two minutes, exactly. Let me answer that. You also know that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are different when it comes to replicas than when it comes to discussions in principle or in particular. At least that's what I learned from you. But certainly as chairman, you have to make sure when you chair that when it's a regular debate, it doesn't involve replicas, that as long as we stay in the debate that's on the agenda, at least a little bit. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Thank you very much. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69788	Mr President, you well know that SRS MPs are seriously and professionally preparing for all debates, not to read written speeches, but to what is appropriate at the given moment of excuses, and sometimes it can be strictly related to the legislative proposal. Sometimes it can also be related to the minister's relationship to the legal proposal, to the minister's attitude towards the portfolio he leads, to the minister's attitude towards the citizens. That's all we can talk about. Very often, SNS MPs spoke of personalities that are not the most difficult things to say. We agreed more often, or agreed to it, and accepted it. Now Madam Minister is here and has the opportunity to answer what we're talking about. I also have to remind some colleagues that at the first year of law school, maybe that's the first autumn lesson when learning what a legal norm is and what a law is. No one has devalued legislation like Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. Imagine when something changes 14 times. To be correct, that's not all in her term. What's he saying? Sometimes I get the impression that we are discussing here and we need to make decisions that are at the level of the local community. The legislative proposal is something that does not change so often, respecting the needs of Serbian citizens. It loses its meaning, and then it becomes devalued. People can't handle it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they can't know what it's about. We must, Mrs. Mihajlovic, shed light on where the 300 million are. That's a double problem. Most highways and other capital facilities are built on credit. She has a national, which every good host knows, right, colleague Maticu, who says, works, saves, invests. That's three basic postulates. You don't have to be particularly educated, so that man knows it. That goes for the government, too. That goes for the state of Serbia, too, for all of us. Now we're looking -- where's that 300 million? On one side, it's a direct damage. On the other hand, co-owners and owners of the US multinational company that is in the past and in the present, and if we do not change our relationship with them, will also create the lives of Serbian citizens in the future. We have to raise our voice against it. And then by the way, what could have been done out of that 300 million, that's something else. There he is, and his colleague Martinovic is back. I think, fellow Martinovic, that Republika Srpska has seen it since the moment Zorana Mihajlovic left it. But, well, now we have this heavy destiny and, I'd say, an accident to fight it. Did any of the MPs speak here, even Minister Sinisa Mali said what happened to the Swiss people and the difficult problem of Serbian citizens, and then he remembered the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, and solved the problem. Most of the time, he was involved in other things. Well, let's say it's his duty. And nobody needs to worry about the SRS voters, they will be or won't be, how much they understand politics and what we do and what we are like as their neighbours, as their representatives, and that's basic to us. We don't even bother taking your voters, and we're well-known in the field and how you get to some. There are people who are completely convinced and think that every member of the SRS is doing well. I think there are those who are doing well, who are correct, very educated people, as I am absolutely sure that Zorana Mihajlovic, now that we are not even going into that expertise, does not work well, works at the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and, indeed, the president of the state and government in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69789	According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69790	Thank you. I'll say something, it's about the Planning and Construction Act and a group of members from 3rd to 19th. That's what I said on Monday. But something that isn't said here, which is the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for additional financing for the Project for the improvement of the land administration in Serbia. It did belong to the finance minister, but the essence of this law practically belongs to this ministry, so I want through the light of the Planning and Construction Act to say part of the job, and it's about something that I do professionally, which is geodesy and the Republic Geodetic Institute. This agreement will be ratified here and is worth 21m euros. The funds are intended primarily to assess the value of immovableity and mass assessment of objects. What is most important for this law is the establishment of a register of facilities, its maintenance and modernisation, based on the restoration of satellite recordings. It is something where at any moment we will have an up-to-date state of objects on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that is something that practically in the implementation of planning, primarily planning, means a lot. Further - complete digitisation will be carried out in the land administration. That means that we're practically going to have everything in digital form, and when we have it in digital form, then the speed, the response, the getting to the data is that it's done in part of a second, not to say in a second. That's why it's digitization and acceleration and quality. What the Republic Geodetic Institute will do and have this starting state, the background, etc., enables planners, architects, people of the profession from that area to plan very well, start from the infrastructure of the facilities, etc., even in agriculture. There's nothing said here, but I think it's very important, and it's a water cadastre. The water cadastre is in a small volume digitized. It will now digitize and depend heavily on it, given that it is mostly, to the most extent, located underground, of course it is also located on the ground floor, without a good water cadastre and digitisation of these data practically do not have that quality for a good background, for good planning. Updating the cadastre, modernising the address register. The address register is something where something tells us that this immovableity has its own name and last name in terms of the owner. Whether it's a company, whether it's a physical person, it's less important. Furthermore, something that is important, which is to improve the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute in general and its outstretched units by municipalities and cities, i.e. the services for the cataster of immovableity. This project will be conducted by the Republic Geodetic Institute, which says that the Republic Geodetic Institute with its units in municipalities and cities is very important for the functioning of the overall system in our country. What I heard here yesterday and yesterday in the debate, often part of the MPs, especially from the opposition, knows how to say that the catastre is bad, that something is wrong, etc. I think that's what you're saying out of misunderstanding. Because, you know what, if all of us who own the immovable property, all of which is who, we show one full responsibility for that immovableity and do our job that we have to do and deliver certain data to the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Catastrophe, then the Republic Geodetic Institute will really look very good to us, if we are responsible for what we hold property or what we hold as usefulness. This full responsibility will give one of the full quality of the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Catastrian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69791	Thank you, fellow Matić. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, by order of Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 3, has been prescribed that ministers are responsible for their work and state in the area of the ministry's work to the Prime Minister and the National Assembly. No wonder we are discussing today in this House about the size of the works and tasks carried out by the Ministry of Construction, headed by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. What I want to challenge is that Serbia is the ninth in the world by the number of building permits issued, I don't know what the criterion is, if we get the data from 2000 to today, how much demand has been made for the issue of construction permits, how many years have been solved, how many cases are left unsolved. When it comes to the construction portfolio, I must point out that I asked a parliamentary question a few years ago – how many pending cases are in the second degree by appeal to the solutions of the competent cadastre? I received an answer that there were 36,000 unsolved cases in the second degree of construction ministry. Imagine, 36,000 citizens waited years to get rid of the second-degree decision and their right. Of these, 23,000 items were in the Ministry of Construction, and then it was decided that these items would return to the catastrus and that it would work as a cadastre. That's where the citizens suffered a lot of damage. In addition, mechanisms to curb corruption have been suspended in the negotiation of major investment projects. In addition to international agreements that have been used for a long time to avoid competition, supervision and transparency in this way, great damage has been done to hundreds of millions of euros per the Republic of Serbia's budget, including contracts under conditions that have not been checked on the market. What does that mean? There was no advertising, no possibility for other participants to participate, both domestic and foreign, and this damage is most viewed, what Mr. Mircic said, he presented that data, no one can dispute them. Therefore, I must say that the facts of the SRS MPs have come out. One more thing I would like, if you would allow me, which is – don't, honourable MPs, colleagues and colleagues, to allow someone to adopt themselves that he has done so many and so many hundreds of tracks, so many and so many highways. No! No! President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic says – Serbia is building, not building Zorana Mihajlovic. Is that right? Secondly, Mrs. Mihajlovic does not know Serbia, she does not know the villages. In Nova Varosha, I said, she didn't set foot in 10 villages and says she doesn't even know where they are on the geographical map. Of course she doesn't know when she didn't visit the settlements like the President of the Republic did when he was even a radical with us. No villages, no villages we didn't go to. He can talk about where, in which village this Serbia needs and what needs to be done with priority. I disagree with that, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no crime in this area. In the area of construction, there are deep roots of crime. There is an accurate price for building permits per surface and square, whether it is given to a clerk, whether it is given to a politician or given to a minister. That's exactly what those prices are known on the field right now. So this is very responsible, but what do you do? Honorable MPs, these resistors are given too many jobs, 40% of the financial resources, especially when it comes to infrastructure is concentrated in this ministry, so no wonder. Mrs. Mihajlovic is unable to finish all of this and leave the results, but the results will be visible in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69793	Thank you, colleague Jojic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69794	Thank you, Your Honor. If you'll allow me, I'll return to mention the project of the freeway of Karajordje and some of the comments that have been made on the subject. The thing that the Shumadi wants to connect to is not the only parameter by which it can be decided in this project. We need to look at it in two directions. Eastern Serbia and that it has the interest to build this highway, and because of the business in Bor, which will develop seriously in the coming years because of tourism in Kladovo and Negotin and because of Zajecar and other cities in the eastern part of Serbia. So, we from eastern Serbia welcome this project and we sincerely hope that it will eventually decide to build a highway to the Ipislon Krak that will be connected both to Corridor 10 and to Corridor 11. As for the airport in Bor, it will be attached to Serbia's airport and that is the first step we also welcome, and I sincerely hope that the next step will be to invest in its functionality. Its runway is covered with dry asphalt and it has all the predisposition that one day if needed, it will be converted to an international airport, and as the only airport in that part of Serbia is certainly very important strategic for Serbia, at least as much as Batajnica, Ships and Ponikva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69795	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69796	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. Article 10 is proposed to amend the name Section 9 and Article 37 of the basic law. It is proposed that in the name of the word instead – responsible planner, it now writes – responsible spatial planner. Otherwise, the provision of Article 37 refers to who may be the responsible planner, i.e. responsible spatial planner. In an explanation given by the ministry, Ms. Mihajlovic said the name licensed space planner is being introduced to comply with the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive, as this professional name gives the person the authority to perform a regulated profession. It means that the person is qualified to perform a regulated profession, because it has met all the needs listed and formal and professional conditions. What we are not at all surprised about is the fact that these changes and additions lower the criteria for a person who can be a responsible spatial planner. Instead of having at least five years of proper professional experience in the production of spatial planning documents, this law now provides for an appropriate professional experience of at least three years. A significant change relates to the fact that experience is now considered to be acquired in the design, that is, co-operation on the development of a spatial plan, that is, part of a spatial plan. The law currently in force implies that professional experience has been acquired exclusively on the creation of spatial planning documents, which is a reduction of one criterion. We have proposed an amendment to delete this article. The only thing that would be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the acceptance of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69797	Thanks, buddy. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69798	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic, with my associates, I want to talk about the great importance of the project supported by your Ministry and the Government of Serbia, which concerns the multi-annual programme implemented by JP City Housing Agency in Nis, which is a social housing programme, i.e. housing with the support of how it has been defined by the new law. So the construction of three residential buildings of Lamela 7, 8 and 9 started at the Mayakovski site in Nis. It is the fourth, last stage of construction in this location where six residential buildings from L1 to L6 were completed and moved from L3 to L6 with a total of 235 apartments. We have Lamelas L5 and L6 that were completed and moved from December 2017 to March 2018 with 70 apartments. The government of the Republic of Serbia has financed from 46 million dinars through the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure to rent 18 apartments under non-profit conditions, which remain owned by the city's housing agency. The funds from the lease remain as income to the city housing agency and are used for further construction. The town of Nis financed the construction of 14 apartments for families whose houses were torn down on a rink in the villages of Mramor and Krusce. It is also worth mentioning that the interest in the previous apartment award contest was extremely large, especially in the Lamelas L5 and L6. Five families competed to rent one apartment, and three families competed for the purchase of one apartment. This is a realistic indication that with this kind of construction, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the City, nothing should continue in the coming period, because there is a need for populations that have their right to an apartment, i.e. some real estate, or real estate cannot be achieved under market conditions. The funds made available by the City Housing Agency from the leases and from the sale of apartments are financed by the construction of new facilities, in this case through the financing of part of the cost of construction of lamel 7, 8 and 9, at the locations of Jakovska in Nis, which I have already mentioned. By adopting the Law on housing and maintenance of buildings, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with local self-government, resolves the housing issue to families who are unable to resolve the housing issue under market conditions, and this is of great importance to my fellow citizens. In three residential buildings, L7 to L9, the gross area of the objects is as many as 8,000 square meters, it will be built 106 apartments of about 6,000 square meters, different structures, from one bedroom over one-room, up to three-bedroom apartments. The apartments are designed according to the latest standards and standards relating to housing, as well as the Energy Efficiency Regulation. The apartments are intended, as I said, primarily to families without an apartment, i.e. persons who do not have their own apartment or family house in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and persons who cannot by their own means resolve the housing need for market conditions for themselves and for their family, for their family household, and under the conditions and criteria prescribed by the Law on Apartment and Building Maintenance. The advantage will be those who belong to vulnerable social groups, which is another of the things I would commend. Also, the construction of the city housing agency will finance from its own funds from previously sold apartments of 40% or 60%, and at 60%, for example. The necessary funds will be provided by commercial banks for the purpose of project financing of apartments. The apartments are for sale. Ninety apartments for sale and 16 apartments for rent. What is very important to say because of my fellow citizens is that the price of the apartment and the amount of the lease is determined according to the criteria prescribed by the law and in accordance with the relevant conditions of the housing support programme. The projected price of the apartment is about 700 euros per metre square, without VAT. The final selling price of the apartment, as well as the level of the lease, will be determined in the final phase of the project's realisation. The total investment value with all the accompanying costs is about 500 million dinars and it is a major project for the city of Nis. Public enterprise City Housing Agency, just a few more sentences, I want to say, they don't stop with this, with the implementation of a sustainable housing programme, but they continue their activities. We have another location in Nis, it is the street of Petra Rangelovic on the Ice Rock, where it is planned to build four residential buildings with over 200 residential units. Due to the change and addition of the Municipality of Palilu's detailed regulation plan, which was adopted in 2015, for that location on the Ice Rock, the existing urban plan of 2010 has ceased to apply, so it is now necessary to create a new project, new project documentation, a construction permit and a final project to perform the works. Construction of the facility is planned in two phases, and 12 million dinars are planned for this purpose in 2020. The location on the ice rock consists of cadastar plots that are total surface area of about 6,000 square squares and the start of construction is expected in 2021. So, in parallel, different activities are being conducted in the city of Nis, which has indeed become a place to be built on a daily basis. So, parallel to the construction of the new 106 housing units, there is a complete documentation project for the new over 200 housing units. I want to tell you that projects like this really have great importance for local self-government that I come from and for the inhabitants of the city of Nis. This has also been shown by analyses that have been carried out and have shown that there is still a need for cheaper apartments, according to the criteria already laid down in advance. I invite you to continue working with the city where I come from, because the city of Nis will always be a good partner for you on projects like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69799	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69800	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministerial and Associates, I appear exclusively by amendment and bind the discussion exclusively to the amendment, so I cannot accept in any case the argument which is why this amendment should be accepted, given that there is no adequate explanation. It's about the next one. This is about spatial planning. If there is any barrier to abuse, then that barrier should be arranged spatial planning. Where good luck if we had arranged spatial planning so far, we wouldn't have problems related to the practical application of the Law on Planning and Construction, i.e. we wouldn't have a verse or anarchy in the area of construction. If spatial planning is of such importance, and no doubt it is, this issue must be addressed by exceptional professionals. In order to obtain this professional profile, certain conditions that are necessary for that professional profile should also be met. Among others, certification, or licensing. Here I absolutely see nothing disputed that the responsible space planner must have an adequate degree of professional training, professional experience and, of course, certification, or license. And where can this professional experience come from, except for the work of spatial planning itself? So what's well-regulared is that it's standardized precisely by professional experience to consider the experience acquired in the design of spatial plans. Where else could he gain that experience rather than create spatial plans. Given that this provision of the proposed law is more than clear, and my, so to speak, legal imperative, i.e. mandatoryness, imposes the necessity to determine in a future, i.e. from the date of adoption of this law in a very precise way who can carry out such significant types of business. Because this job that attaches itself to a responsible spatial planner is a job that in the field of planning and building can certainly be at the top of the pyramid's responsibility. Why? Because exactly what the responsible spatial planner does and signs, and even guarantees that his signature is a verification of everything that has been done in accordance with the law, it means taking on a huge degree of responsibility that the work of spatial planning has been done both legally and legitimately. That is why I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, and given that other colleagues in some broader concept have declared themselves about the projects and investments that the state has made, I have to point out one fact that no one will question, and that fact relates to the territory of the Zlatibor County and refers to the Airport "Ponikave". One of the most important decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that the Ponikve Airport is taken, i.e. the management of the airport is removed from the city, that the city has no management rights, and that the management rights and any other rights related to the Ponikve Airport are taken over by the state. It is obvious that it is one decision that has multiple positive significance, given that no less than 20m euros will be invested in the airport, and if I am wrong, you correct me, whether or not this figure, given that the city had no opportunities, no capacity, no other capacity, to carry the burden not only on financing and investment, but even on the management of that capital facility for the region. Since much of the accompanying facilities and facilities that the airport must meet under the law were not represented where they should be, along the runway, or runway, all other technical and other conditions, which must also be satisfied with the law. All that city, in no way could, I'm talking about the town of Uzic, couldn't carry on its burden, which is why the burden of responsibility and obligation to the airport has rightly taken over the state. What is expected with a high level of confidence, given the experience so far, is the expectation of citizens of the entire Western Serbia territory, that these investments will be realised very quickly and that, within other airports, within other airports, they will have full capacity and function, which means the function of commercial flights, which is of immeasurable importance to everything that is related to the needs of citizens and what is in the interests of citizens. Both in the area of tourism and in the area of economic development, economic potential and all that the region currently does not have, and it is certain that it will have after the realization of this project. Given that tourism, I say, is one of the primary projects related to plans and the realization of plans in the territory of the Zlatibor district, then I must draw attention to that tourist destinations, such as Zlatibor, Tara and Zlatar, also have great importance after the realization of this project, since both highways, i.e. road infrastructure, will have to monitor the realisation of the project, which connects to the airport, and thus normally and everything that connects to the tourism potentials, will experience full affirmation. Not to forget, it is very important that near the airport, something that is growing more and more and better affirmation year after year, which is the location of Wekra Gora, Drvengrad and the connection with Kamengrad in Visegrad. So what you can say, as a very good, very positive one, is the realization of a project that I hope will be very soon and that we will get what we have long been waiting for, and logically, we have failed, given the lack of potential and capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69801	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69802	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and I, as well as my fellow Members, have asked for the erasure of this article 11 and of all the other members to which I have submitted amendments, on the proposal of this law, not for the reason that this is an irrelevant law, on the contrary, for the reasons that this is an extremely important law, and I believe that this law should be revised, i.e. that a new law should be fundamentally passed. In the field of planning and building, unfortunately for many years now, this government has, let's say, a policy that doesn't lead to solving these things and I can't say that this is what's happened with this government, it's been rooting since some time ago. But what's characteristic of this government and this ministry, that this urban chaos, let's call it that, once ruled on the periphery of cities, when mass residents, from the rural area, moved to regional centers and bought their beaches and built their family houses. Now, unfortunately, our villages are dying, there are not so many people who, that is, young people who could come into town and this urban chaos from the periphery of cities, would move to the central city core. That's what's the biggest offense to this government, that is, this ministry, besides those things about corruption and the like. In the city's central cores, in large cities, as I said, there's chaos. I'd call it a urbicide, it's an upgrade, an upgrade, where there are no technical conditions, no technical characteristics. Where there were three, four and five houses, houses are bought, and where there used to be four, five, six families are building residential buildings, where they live 20, 30, and sometimes 50 families and no parking, there are no other elemental conditions, and indeed with that practice they have to stop once.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69803	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69804	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia is in the world's ninth place after the issue of construction permits, and we SNS MPs do not say that, nor does the proposing representative say so, but rather the World Bank's Duing Business List says so. So much for that, since there were some discussions on whether or not someone recognised the position of Serbia, and we were in 186th place in 2014, 2015 at 139th place, 2016 in 36th place, 2017 in 10th place, and 2018 in 11th place in Duing Business List of the World Bank. These are huge results for Serbia, among other things, the results and effects of the laws that we SNS MPs here today are actually defending. For the sake of comparison, in order to make it clearer for the citizens of Serbia, what we are talking about and how much success we have achieved, I will tell you the positions of countries in the region – Albania in 166th place, BiH in 173th place, Croatia in 150th place, Hungary in 108th place, Romania in 147th place, Slovenia in 119th place. These are extraordinary results. As far as Serbia's total rating on the Duing Business List is concerned, we are in the 44th position and we have made progress compared to 2018 for four places, and since 2014, Serbia's position has looked like this – in 2014 91st place, to short 2016 47th place, 2018 48th place, as I mentioned earlier, and now in 44th place and these are all the results of the laws passed. I call upon fellow Members of the People to discuss the law in the follow-up session. When we talk about planning and building, we only have one request for the Deputy Prime Minister, which is to do everything in your power to get into Leskovac as soon as possible with the work on the bypass. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69805	Thank you, colleague Pesic. According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69806	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister of Associates, when we talk about the amendment, seems to me that these criticisms were addressed earlier when much of what was negatively built, and it's about the Engineering Chamber, and then they'd be far more critical and more critical, when it comes to the problems we're talking about in this area. In view of a completely unsettled condition that existed and that he did what he wanted without any absolute responsibility. What can only be concluded from one legal aspect of observation, when it comes to these provisions that are being attacked by amendments, is the fact that these facts that you have proposed prevents or narrows down space, both abuse and certain manipulations when it comes to obtaining certain professional certificates, licences and everything else. So it's just this restriction or narrowing down space, that it's done as it used to, so it could be as anybody wanted and in whatever way he wanted to come up with any kind of, to call him on the telephone, the paper, based on which he would acquire legitimacy or legitimacy so that he could engage in such important matters of general interest, such as spatial planning, and in particular, urban planning. Of course, those digressions that I made as in some principled part, as a debater, when there was a story about solutions being delivered to licensed persons and whether those solutions could finally be delivered by day or not, that digression remains. I don't have any single problem with that, absolutely well-intentioned. But we can talk about this later, when we eventually discuss the practical application of the law and the results of the practical application of this law. How in practical application this law will be recognised, i.e. those applying it, whether it will be applied in an adequate way, on the one hand, and on the other hand, whether it is really possible, given the problem in certain provisions of this law. In order not to repeat what I said earlier, because it would be stereotyped and deplaced, I think what your ministry's intensities were is that the degree of expertise when it comes to all those involved in project-making processes, those who participate in construction procedures must appear with a high degree of responsibility for their work on the one hand, and on the other hand show an extremely high degree of expertise that justifies the position or role of the one involved in these proceedings. That is why there is the support of the Socialist Party of Serbia for such bill proposals and for this normisation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69807	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Before we go any further, just one question for you. I guess you've been wasting your time with the MPs all along, haven't you?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69808	I'm sorry, I didn't say that in time. Yes, I'm wasting the time of a parliamentary group, not an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69809	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. By amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69810	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say something as an authorised representative of my party, and I'm talking about the work of the Engineering Chamber and the licensing procedure. It's very important, regardless of the problems that existed in the Engineering Chamber in the previous period, it's not exactly that the licenses were obtained as anyone wanted. I also made it very clear in my law presentation Monday that the commissions that exist in the Engineering Chamber continue to conduct the procedure for passing the expert exam. The Commissions are really made up of the most competent people, both from the order of science and from the profession. What happened as a problem in the Engineering Chamber is one, to say a rather indefinite conflict that paralysed the work of the Engineering Chamber. The ministry tried several times to intervene and help function the Engineering Chamber back to its previous level. Since these interventions did not yield results, it was really impossible. The only thing that could have been done at that moment was to take this job over to the Ministry, which is now being done, by keeping the procedure of passing the expert exam, and the licensing process itself has taken over the Ministry and it works very well. What is further prescribed by this law and what we consider to be very good is a program of permanent perfection that will be required for all engineers, construction professions and architects, urbanists, as it is in some other professions. Construction is something that progresses from year to year, and the once acquired calling of a graduated engineer cannot be considered sufficient for his entire working life. He must attend certain professional gatherings and must further perfect his knowledge in order to be competitive in the course of his entire life span. And it's absolutely fine. During the previous period, the program of permanent training was implemented, but was not required. Certain professional organisations have been involved in organising scientific meetings, organising certain seminars at the request of the economy, at the request of the profession. Certain certificates from these areas were needed by young engineers in colleges dealing with research, as a certificate for advances in multiple titles, but in the economy it was not a condition. That is why we may have faced problems in the previous period that certain economic requirements could not be responded adequately. I am sure that in the next period it will only contribute to one better staff, means the staff of construction engineers who will be further educated, who will respond to all the demands of modern construction and who will provide us and as a country with one frame that is needed that we never have to get into a situation to hire someone from abroad to do some things that are very important because we may not have invested enough in our engineering chamber. What I have cited as a single problem and what has been observed in the process of permanent improvement in a previous period as optional is the absence of young engineers from the economy. I want to mention it one more time. Ms. Minister, when she responded, said the new programme envisioned that she would have this problem in mind and that young engineers who are employed and engaged in these major infrastructure projects would have the opportunity to permanently improve according to specific programmes. I would like to say once again that this is important for all engineers in Serbia, wherever they are working and that the sublegal act to define the program of permanent training for engineering craftsmen from the construction profession in the coming period must provide for the possibility of funding a program of permanent training for young engineers who are employed in the economy. I believe that in this way we will contribute to their training to stay working in the Republic of Serbia because they will have the opportunity to perfect themselves, not to have the trend of draining young professional staff and the desire to go somewhere else where they will have the opportunity to further improve. I believe that the proposals contained in the Law on Planning and Construction, as far as the permanent ones are concerned, are extremely good and will improve our construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69811	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Nedja Jovanovic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69812	Thank you. In view of my sincere utmost respect for the discussions of distinguished colleagues, Slavica Zivkovic, who is highly professionally, well-founded, competently expressing views on the topics of the agenda, which she has done now. There's only one of her depressions compared to what I pointed out in a recent discussion, and it's about the Engineering Chamber. I'm not going to generalize, nor do I think generalization is acceptable in any way, because generalization leads us to one whole other, absolutely negative side, and that means that all those in a particular branch, in a particular business, are being qualified in a negative way. I don't want to, but I also have to remind the citizens of Serbia, and certainly the distinguished colleague Zivkovic knows that there was a period of work of the Engineering Chamber before 2010 or 2011, when we had really certain situations that couldn't be accepted as legally acceptable, and it is that many, let's call licensed experts in any area, whether it's about spatial planning, carrying out work or anything else, had certain shortcomings or failures in their work that were at the borders against legal action, not to say committing a criminal act. I don't know if any of these fellow respected colleagues were sanctioned during that period? Although it is, it's a very small number. Did any of those who sinned and grossly wronged the law bear material responsibility? From the point of view of the case law I belong to, I know it isn't, and even if it is, it was a very small number of cases. That's why I'm pointing out, without intending to qualify through generalization for negatively respected experts from that area, highly competent, engineers and architects and all, I've just been paying attention that it's high time to cut it off and it seems like this law. My colleague Zivkovic and I agree here, we have a completely identical attitude, the same opinion. These provisions of this law indicate that we have narrowed down the possibility of abuses that have been done so far, and there have been not many of them fortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69813	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69814	The Honorable Chairman, the Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, in the period since 2012, when we found about 500 sites at that moment, today there are about 55,000 of them, wherever you go, you can see cranes everywhere. Thanks to Alexander Vukic and his vision, the government of Serbia and the Ministry of Construction has built about 350km of highways since 2012 as well as 350km of reconstructed railways. A new cycle of infrastructure investment worth more than 10 billion euros has been launched, which is the Preljina-Požega highway, 30.9 km, the Moravski Corridor, i.e. the Pojate-Preljina highway, 110 km, Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, with Sremska Raca-Kuzine shares, 17 km and Požega-Uzice-Kotroman, 60 km, the Ruma-Shabac highway, as well as a fast road crossing around Belgrade, which is currently being built and the Fruškogori Corridor, about 45 km. Then, the first share of the Nish-Medare-Pristina highway. If I could count how much longer, I could, but I have to give my colleagues a call too. In the end, I must also say that no one can cheat on the citizens, because care for them and their more decent living and responsibility conditions has been shown by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69815	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69816	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. I asked my amendment to delete this member of the law. You know the position of the SRS that we in principle have nothing against doing things in this area in the way that suits our citizens the most. However, we believe that many things in this law could have been resolved in a different way and more effective ways. The state administration is increasingly unprofessional and incompetent for the jobs they've been entrusted to her. There is a legitimate concern that in the near future this will create huge problems for our citizens. Experience tells us that my fear is justified. The Minister can't come before the MPs and act like everything's in its best order. What is the real situation, they can see themselves Serbian citizens in the places they live. Many of our citizens still do not have a solution to the basic municipal needs, it is unacceptable in the 21st century. The situation is particularly critical in the border areas of cities, as well as in most villages. The amendment of this article will not contribute to the improvement of this law. The laws are basically bad and stop legalization. That's why I asked my amendment to delete this article, because it's necessary to pass a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69817	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69818	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Minister Mihajlovic, the Nis-Presevo-State Border is a one-way, 157km long and is part of the Pan-European Corridor 10. The railway along with the master road Nis-Presevo is located in the valley of the river South Morava and passes through the Grdelička gorge. A reconstruction of the Nis-Presevo-State border is planned in the framework of the modernisation programme of the Serbia a.d. railway railway. The aim of modernization is to raise the level of safety and quality of transport services. With the modernisation of the Nis-Presevo-state border started on 11 April 2016 at the Bujanovac-Bukarevac section of 13,759m in length. The technical reception was made on 14 March 2017. The reconstruction was then done on two more sections, and this is Ristovac-Vranjska Banja, 17,723 metres long and Vinarca-Gjordjevo, 15,015 meters long. The total length of the remounted section of the Nis-Presevo-State border is 46,497 metres. According to the driving order booklet, for the order of the journey 2017/2018. The maximum permitted speed on the Nis-Presevo-State border is 100 kilometers per hour and at least 30 kilometers per hour. In order to make better use of and exploit the remounted shares fully, the Leskovac-Gjordjevo railway is required to provide a road crossing to the semi-defines or dams and to engage in an electro-real insurance system, in order to raise speed to 100 kilometers per hour, because now because of the three-way transparency it is reduced to 30 kilometers from Leskovec direction. The road crossing PBH3 was also completed and installed in the Leskovac-Gjordjevo railway area and the speed raised to 100km per hour. Also, on the Bujanovac-Bukarevac section, in order to exploit the remont part of the railway, road crossings should be included in the Simens electro-real security system, providing dams or semi-defines, as those road crossings cannot support a speed of 100 km per hour due to a three-way transparency because the speed over the mentioned road crossings is 30 km per hour. Difficulty in the development of rail traffic, especially during the winter period, occurs at the part of the rail that passes through the Gredile ravine, because there is often a disturbance in the movement of turning points, due to low temperatures, as well as a slope in the middle of erosion. Also, due to the rioting maintenance of the railway, train driving times are constantly increasing, and this is the main reason for the drastic decline in the number of passengers and goods carried on this track. It is necessary to remount this section of the railway, both for safety reasons and for the regularity of rail traffic, from the crossing of Gjorgevo to Vladic's Han station, which is a total of 31,710 meters. So far it's been done about 900 meters in Caric's Valley. Also, a suggestion, the train station Leskovac is located in the heart of the town of Leskovac, near the Textile School in Leskovac. The Leskovac railway station separates the streets of William Pushman from the Textile School, and students, as well as citizens of the city often pass over the colossal capacities of the track, because the protective fence in the length of 150 meters is not set up because of the division of land between the town of Leskovac and the railways of Serbia a.d. and because of this, unfortunately, there is a large number of emergency events, as citizens and students are injured by railway trains. So you need to set up a protective fence in as short a time as possible, because the speed on this section of the track is 100 kilometers per hour. Finally, ministers, on the regional road of Boečevce-Lipovica, a roadway was made, changed by asphalt, so it would not be bad to do the road crossing with rubber panels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69819	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69820	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Amendment of the SRS to Article 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. We have suggested erasing with an explanation that the existing law is not possible to fix any changes and additions. The law is basically bad and it stops the legalization process. The amendment of this article will also not contribute to the improvement of the law. In addition, the proposed changes are in the interest of a small number of people and provide for the issue of construction permits for mini power plants without the planned documentation. These changes will be a source of abuse. A great dissatisfaction will be caused by a large number of people in Serbia. The last amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction was adopted in December, if I am not mistaken in 2018, while since 2009, he has suffered as much as 11, or I think this is the 12th amendment and addition. Such cosmetic changes with a third of the laws being amended should then be amended and the whole law should be adopted. When it comes to mini power plants, we see that the construction project, i.e. the construction ban, includes the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which we consider Serbian radicals justified. The possibility of building a mini-hydro-centrale should work, but only where there is no population, where flora and fauna are not disrupted, and with such permits to build a mini-hydro-centrale, they cannot have the benefits of individuals. It's usually individuals close to the government, but it's also a local community where it's built and this community where such mini hydrothermia is built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69821	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Milosav Milojevic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69822	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, new amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction have brought a whole series of provisions that define more and more precisely the new concepts necessary for the better functioning and development of construction, impact on the values of the works carried out and their regulation, the growth of the BPD and the overall progress of citizens' lives. According to official data from the Republic Statistics Institute and the number of building permits issued has been on constant growth, and has increased three times over the past seven years. Today we have nearly 54,000 construction sites, while that number was below 13,000 at the end of 2015. Systemic reforms have made huge progress in the development of construction throughout Serbia. The capital of Belgrade today is a major construction site and we will not be immodest if we say that the scale of investment in infrastructure is greater today than ever before in Serbia's modern history. Not only in Belgrade, but in other cities of our country, a major impact on living standards has been observed. In the municipality of Arangelovac, in the last few years, construction of a large number of new housing facilities has been completed and the demand for apartments is significant, growth and demand for real estate. In the last few months alone, dozens of clubs in the main street of Knjaz Miloš and the narrow and wider city zone have been reconstructed and started working, resulting in huge investment in infrastructure. By investing more than threem euros in a complete reconstruction of the main city street, by replacing a water network, a new asphalt background, planting trees and editing pedestrian zones and green areas, conditions have been created for the growth of demand and real estate. This is just one example of how important the relationship between investment and small economy growth is. Also, the basis of everything is a better standard of living, and with greater demand for the power of the population, the possibility of development and other economic areas is created. The Law on Planning and Construction is moving forward with clear objectives, normally the EU, and therefore the most important changes and additions concern the regulation of professions, i.e. professional qualifications and licensing to engineers, architects, professional planners, or the acquisition of the right to practice their professional fields. The amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction have also brought new terms that will facilitate the integration and organisation of people in closed housing blocks in order to arrange green areas, mutual relations and other important issues of importance for the functioning of certain local communities. Also, a new term "Metro" has been introduced, a need that has arisen due to the start of the construction project for Belgrade's Metro. I think there is no need to talk too much about the importance of this project, as would be the development of Belgrade, and thus the entire Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, for the extraordinary vision of our country's arrangements and progress, then the Ministers of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Zorani Mihajlovic and all members of the Government who show seriousness and desire for Serbia to become a well-organised and developed country. Unlike a small number of opposition individuals, whose only goal is to deal with the lying and cheap demagogy policies, SNS representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia speak a much clearer language, language of results and facts. It is something that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how they can see and recognize. That is why I call on all the MPs and the public to support the efforts of the people who sincerely and honestly fight for all the people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69823	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all remember the last changes and additions to the bill on planning and construction that wasn't so long ago. We heard many words of praise at that time for the law, and few of whom in this congregation believed that such a praised law would come so quickly to the remont. I don't think in our recent legislative practice we've had a similar example of so much intervention in one law in terms of changes and additions, patchages, alignments, etc. We at the SRS were then telling you that it is not good that you do what you do, that the law will not live, and you told us that if we are against a project, against an idea, God forbid, against a government member, that we are against the development of Serbia, that we are against building highways, we are against Serbia at the end. I must tell you that we can be against everything, but never against Serbia. As for our amendments, which are mostly contained in "expect", they express our principled position both under this law and according to a certain article, because if something is wrong, if the foundation is guilty, you can hardly correct that failure in the construction process. I have little time left and I would like to say two sentences on the side of Corridor 11, whose construction is planned in recent times and, besides the municipalities of southwestern Serbia, will bypass the mountains of Tara and Zlatar, known tourist destinations that visit more than 500,000 tourists in a year, whether domestic or foreign.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69825	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69826	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Mihajlović, respected guests from the ministry, respected MPs, I will first commend Mrs. Minister and Resorship Ministry in my work, and as regards the railway tours around Nis, i.e. from the Niš railway station, i.e. Proseko or Siceva, which is part of the larger Nis railway project, Dimitrovgrad, amounting to 268.28 million. I think I got the number right. If I'm not, you correct me. To remind myself that for years, there has been talk of the railway being moved from the city of Nis and all the authorities talking about it until the SNS came to power. I'll just do one little analysis. The first concrete step was to sign the Protocol on the Move of the Strip in December 2012, and now it is 2020, between EU representatives Mr. Mr. Mr. Murkonjic and Mr. Perisic's mayor. The analysis of this project showed justification from the economic aspect, because 11 million were annual losses on the Nis - Average railway station, and only a million and a half dinars. Second, the environmental aspect and, third, the loss of life, which is the most important. The project envisioned a double track for passenger traffic, for freight traffic and track for Zaječar is special and separated from Panteli. Former director Dragoljub Simonovic said that the railway had given up and that the railroad only needed to be electrified, which would be an actual and permanent solution and the end of this story. He reacted to the deputy mayor, Mr. Savkovic, so in 2015, the Republic spatial planning agency banned the railway from electrifying. Finally, in 2016, the Czech firm Sudopraha completed a bypass project with EU money. It will cost about 80,000 euros alone, a 22,000-mile-long railway tour around Nis. The construction will be financed by the state of Serbia, its citizens through the budget and another European Investment Bank. As you know, we have passed a bill confirming the financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Nis-Dimitrovgrad, worth 134m euros. So much for how the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia works and this burning problem will finally be solved in the town of Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69827	I thank my colleague, Rancic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Stefana Miladanovic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69828	Thank you, dear colleague Milicevic. I am reporting for an amendment submitted by my esteemed colleague Dubravko Bojic not so much because of the content of the amendment itself, but because of what my colleague said, as far as this law is concerned. I believe that no system can be arranged overnight, so neither can this area, the area of construction, or construction. We've been testifying about this for decades. As my colleague Nedjo Jovanovic said, we had one chaotic situation and this situation had to be handled as much as possible. And it was perfectly normal for us to have amendments and additions to this law, as well as some laws that we adopted in the meantime to sort out the situation on the ground. I believe that inspectors and all who work in the construction system know that examples are numerous, can be counted in thousands of different examples that you didn't even know, and you need to regulate them by the time you've faced these problems on the ground. So, unlike all the previous changes and additions, I would say, that this change and supplement, in fact, its basicity is just an improvement of what has already been established as good examples of practice. I will not repeat what my colleague Neđo Jovanovic said just before and it is about promotions, in fact, licensed spatial planners, or the need for them to be licensed. Anyway, you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69829	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69830	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if problems arise during practice during the application of a law, the worst solution is to make changes and supplements. In particular, this law has changed for the eighth time since Minister Zorana Mihajlovic was headed by the rest of the ministry. We believe that the proposed changes and this time absolutely will not contribute to any solution to the problems that have been many in the previous period. I think that for one responsible government, as colleagues from the ruling coalition say, this bill, that is, these huge changes of law cannot possibly be something to be praised for. This proposal, we have pointed out this several times, is essentially bad and we are doing it through our amendments, more specifically by eradicating all the proposed members clearly and showing the view that the law is bad, that it should be amended by making a whole new law, as should be changed by a resolute minister. They would also point to some more nebulous and bad solutions, given that the amendments are proposed for Serbia's EU accession, and some of the proposed changes will be applicable, i.e. take effect at the time of accession, and since Serbia, thank God, will never enter the EU, a good part of the legal norms proposed will remain inapplicable. That is why it would be best if this law were withdrawn from the procedure, to wait for a minister to come to the head of this ministry who would work honestly and exclusively in the interests of Serbian citizens, which we cannot say about the current minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69831	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. According to the amendment, MP Boban Birmancevic has the word. Here's your colleague, Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69832	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected Minister of Associates, I have reported earlier, but I have not received a word for the truth and simply to confirm what all citizens in Serbia know, and especially the citizens of the Mačvanski District, that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has just been in villages, towns, rural settlements, suburban settlements have been more secure than all ministers since there are ministers in Serbia, and I am sure that if we can say something about the tasks carried out by the ministry when Minister Zoran Mihajlovic heads that these jobs have brought a good result, a good result for the citizens of Serbia, a good result for the government of Serbia and a good result for our country. No matter what anyone tries to change, or if they repeat the lie a hundred times to make it true, it's not going to happen in this case either. The truth is only one thing that we are in exactly the city I come from, and Shabac is a city where for years we have not invested in travel infrastructure, that we have worked from the government of the Republic of Serbia and these roads in the smallest places and you believe the least village that belongs to the town of Sapcu is Milosevic, which has only 54 voters, right through the centre of that village is the road that we have shown that this Government of the Republic of Serbia and this ministry is thinking about each and also about citizens where there are 54 voters in the village. We did some highways, as they were called, members, I can't even remember which foreigners they belong to anymore, but it's a different variant of yellow color, DS divided now, and I'm sure they're not sure who the party is, either, but they promised some of the girls' highways there, especially the dark ones. I will remind the citizens of Sapac and the citizens of Serbia that we are just between Bucharest and Lower... Made the way that has been waiting since World War II on here, that it was just the Cerska highway connected villages in Pocerina, that roads were made around the village in Tamnava, that the road was done in Prog, that it was done very much on the road infrastructure in the municipality of Koceljeva, the municipality of Vladimirci. What is very important is what is most important and what is really going to change the image of western Serbia and of course the Mačvanski district has just begun to build a highway on the Ruma-Sabac route, a new bridge across the Sava River and a fast road from Sapac to Loznica, a total length of 77km, a total monetary amount of 467.5m euros, almost half a billion euros will finally be the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Ljubovija and Mali Zvornik and Krupanj and Loznica, and of course Shabac, Bogatic, Koceljeva and all villages belonging to these municipalities will finally be on the map of those who have the highway. Thanks to Alexander Vukic and this ministry and this government, nothing is far from here, so nothing will be far away in the Mačvan County. For the end. That's what I'm gonna end up with. As much as I try to challenge from 188 seats per license, with 188 seats in the world, Serbia now ranks ninth. It's information that simply shows that this is the Ministry, that this government, that this country is on the right track. In order for someone to get to ninth place, there is not only a need to react in this segment of the ministry but a complete government, a series of ministries, a series of laws, and we are going to change this law for the last time, and we are going to change as much as we need to. We recognize problems if they appear, so we change according to the interests, only to the interests of Serbian citizens and the state of Serbia. Thank you again, Zorani Mihajlovic, on behalf of the citizens of the Mačvan district, as well as citizens of all Serbia. I repeat, no one has ever been to all the villages, not just the Mačvan County, but the whole of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69833	I thank my colleague Birmanchevic. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69834	So, for the public in that Article 17, and as regards Article 60, we have to read this precisely, written for which all objects are possible to obtain a building permit without a plan. Among other things, it is written – renewable energy production facilities and the like. It's those little hydropower plants. When the public story started about this, when we started doing this, then you agreed that one of your MPs would submit an amendment, so that this narrows down, that not all the mini power plants were concerned. We claim and here we are now let the public hear us, that this is exactly what you will abuse and that this will be what you intend to do with this law. Then the Minister just told us -- that's not what the bill says. How do we know what the bill says? We're dealing with the bill. But it's so much ignorance that it's just amazing. While we're talking about all this these days, believe me, a lot of people are showing up, desperate, dissatisfied, etc. A little bit to spoil the pink picture of what Zorana Mihajlović is doing, the pink picture that you in power are trying to present. As we spoke here the day before yesterday, many of them gathered on the scene, the villages of Trnava, Trnavska Baluga, Athens, Zablace, Vapa, all of these are Chacan villages. And what's funny? What's the funniest thing about Mrs. Mihajlovic right now, in this while I'm talking? How can you not be ashamed? Since you're not ashamed, thief thief, you're still laughing at my face.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69835	Please, don't be a colleague of Radet's. Comrade Radeta, I'll allow you to speak, just a moment. Please. Don't use that rhetoric and don't speak directly like that. Please continue in the democratic spirit in which we have worked so far. Please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69836	The problem of this democratic spirit is not to this day. From there you don't see what he's doing, how he behaves, and what faces he's making that he sits in front of you. You don't see it. You know what she was doing behind Anna Brnabic's back when she was running around, rolling her eyes. If Anna Brnabic allows it, we do not allow it. Don't warn us. It's her. At least ask why we react that way. So, these villages are along the Čačak-Kingeva railway line and all belong to the Čačak municipality. In these villages, there's no ramp at any line crossing, there's no signalling, there's no street lighting, there's no station, and there's over 20,000 people. Unfortunately, there have been 13 deaths recorded at this site. This way every day the children cross, go to school every day, cross the railroad, and when it's fog, when it's dusk, it's just a Russian roulette, how to cross and survive in that part. Otherwise, the local road that connects all these five villages, large, has no millimeter asphalt. So there's something you can't see from those open buses when you're walking around, there's something only people in Serbia see living there on the spot. Most importantly, when representatives of these villages addressed the authorities, they were told that their demands were expensive. Imagine, 13 dead, 13 killed at an existing spring crossing, and the solution to that problem is expensive for power in Serbia. You remember when there was a similar thing in Nis, so when there's a little more shouting in public, they choose to do something about it. The curiosity of this is that in one of those villages in Athens also lived someone who was the minister of the same affairs Velja Ilic, even he didn't think of doing this part and fulfilling this obligation. So there's a lot to be done, nothing will be done by what I repeat, which is not seen in front of TV cameras and can't be done while the law is like this, and it's amazing. I listen to MPs who will vote for this law, as they say, the laws must be changed, this law must be changed, this chaos must somehow be eradicated in lawless construction, in the construction mafia, etc. So, where'd the lawless construction come from, where did the construction mob come from? Of course, it was a long time ago, long before the advances, but in eight years, don't do anything, like you did, like this minister did, it's really something amazing. You didn't do anything, Madam Minister, because you're obstructing the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because you're passing laws on which nothing can be done, because you've also passed the Law on Legalisation, on Law, you've crossed this one about planning and building. In this way, with such provisions that it is impossible to legalise what is a serious problem, and even more serious problems are your inspectors on the ground. And today it's built all over Serbia, apartments are made, objects are made, houses are made. You wrote that you can't get electricity, for example. in a building that does not have a building permit, it is known who goes with 10,000 euros, so the electricity connection is obtained, it is only a matter of when another Miroljub Jeftic will show up again, so let's see how many thousands of euros are shared with you. You're obviously the only one doing well.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69837	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69838	Okay, I've been listening to a really good three hours of your political party, the representatives of your political party with a standard story, with which you've been going for decades. Mostly 90% of cases are just lies, lies, lies. I very much choose words, not to say no to the truth, but to tell lies, because you know very well that you are lying. So what you did two days ago and you said what you're saying today and about what I look like and what I do, whether I'm a thief, a criminal, and that dose, and that degree, above all, of course, I don't expect you to behave well and raise yourself, because it's a home education, and it needs someone else to teach you. I don't expect you to recite the Prevera either, because it's a matter of education again, but also how I expect that, if today's debate on amendments adopted or rejected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then I suppose I should talk about them. But I'm always the subject, my name is pronounced 1,000 times, so here, I'm just going to answer what they say and what they said for three days, and I have no intention of answering you anymore because it's one. Completely, every thing you say about me, my private life, my business life, my career, every thing you say is a lie. So all you've been saying for months is a lie. Your political party has been doing this for decades, and we all know how you've been going. After all, we also know how many percent of you now have citizens' support, much less than what you are sitting in parliament right now. Because of the people who voted you, it is my duty to say what is all the lie that you, representatives of that political party, have been saying for days, months, years in this House. So, let's get going, since you're only used to working, which is to lie. Let's go with that story about Moravia Corridor. Let's go with the story that me and the US ambassador stole 300m euros, because the Chinese company allegedly offered 500m euros. For the sake of the public, a respected political party, you lie, because there is no single paper, no single agreement, no single contract, no single offer of a Chinese company that says they can do some work, that concrete job, do for 500 million. On the contrary, there's paper where they say they can't do it for that amount. So you lied and lied that I took 300m euros to build the Moravia Corridor. So there are no 300m euros, as some representatives of your political party say -- where 300m euros are. Well, here, let me tell you, you lied. Next lie. You're lying that I'm a spy, American, British, whatever you think I am. How you wake up that morning - I'm a spy. Both citizens and citizens of this country have been listening for years to call me a spy. Prove yourself free, there are institutions. I'm not a spy, but you're lying about me being a spy. You're talking about me going to jail, being a thief, etc. I have nothing to do with what V.D. is. The director of a company took bribes and he's right where he belongs. You're lying because that same man's lawyer made it very clear that neither my name nor any member of my family was mentioned from the beginning to the end. And you know enough, too... (President: Please bring the end. I'm sorry, I've been listening to this thing for three hours, and it's my job to answer for the citizens of Serbia how it is. So you're telling me from the scene -- thief, you're yelling at me if I'm normal, let the citizens of Serbia hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69839	Vice President, just a moment. You, as well as the MPs, have two minutes. It's already been four minutes. I just asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69840	Then we'll be working till midnight or another 500 days, but it's mine to answer the terrible accusations I'm hearing here. Just one more sentence and I'll finish it, 'cause I'm not gonna answer to this political game anymore. Next thing. I'm not wanted by any court. You're wanted by the courts. Me and my family, the courts aren't looking for me. I believe you'll come where you belong. Everything you've said about my work so far is a lie. About me taking money is a lie. You file all possible charges and criminal charges, I call upon you and encourage you to do so. We have institutions, you said you trusted them. And I trust the institutions, let them check it out. But because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to tell you that these inspirations that you have in my name and what I'm doing still can't erase one single mile of the time I'm responsible and in charge of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And over 500 kilometers of track. No one can erase it. You can attack me, for me any thing you say is a radical lie. I won't answer any more of the insults you're giving me from the scene, when you don't have the courage to take the microphone, but from the scene, you're telling me very ugly, rude and primitive things. Keep doing it, you did it 20 years ago, pulling guns on students, go ahead, I won't answer you again. So the story with you is over for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69841	Thank you. You have, of course, just to explain. [[The Faith of Radeta: Right to replica.]] Vice President, it has been my duty to point out that everyone has the right to replication and that replica lasts up to two minutes. Of course, we always leave one period of time to end the thought. Here you go, colleagues of Radeta, you want a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69842	This is an insult I think no minister has ever, since the National Assembly, spoken to any MP, especially not to the entire parliamentary group, and it is quite surprising that you have allowed it all. But we don't mind that. The more Zorana Mihajlovic promotes herself and the party she thinks is behind it, the worse it gets. Do you see this, do you see what this thief is doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69843	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69844	Look what he's doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69845	Both you and the vice president. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69846	Get her out of the session. You threw these out of here because of transparents. Listen, she's gonna put a "Radical Lie" banner on. Bitch, you were embarrassed. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69847	Please. According to Article 112, I'm taking a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work, with the appeal of all the MPs to behave politely in the hall and to stick to the parliamentary dignity and respect of the very institutions of the High House, as well as the peoples and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The faithful Radeta has the right to the replica as far as I'm concerned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69849	It is simply amazing that you, Vice President, are warning the MPs about the incident caused by Zorana Mihajlovic in the hall. It's just amazing, I really don't know what's wrong with you? What did she do to you all to make you behave like that? She, among other things, says I'm wanted by court in The Hague. That's the one she was thinking of, because the only one who can look for me is me, which I'm proud of. She also says she's hoping I'll go there. So she said in time when the indictment was current, I think, and now, but when she showed up, then Darko Glisic, president of their executive board, told her that someone who got rich at the expense of the party, so Darko Glisic and Aleksandra Vukic, I quote - who got rich at the expense of the party, can't stand the attitudes of the opposite party. But it's their client's business. We don't expect anything good and nothing smart from Zorana. Or what Zorana does to those who are breadd food, and I do not mean the people of Serbia in this case, but to Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic, etc., ask their members of the presidency what they two said behind their backs. Ask Wolfie who's... Vlado Marinkovic, again raising the transparency: "Radical Lie". I'm asking you to stop this, don't make incidents. Don't be, be what you should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69850	My colleague Radeta, I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69851	It's not my fault everyone in the presidency knows that Wolf told her personally that she released the news two years ago that he beat up a woman and lost a child. The wolf told her, I didn't... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69852	Come on, please, Veronica, what do you expect with such a discussion now? (The Faith of Radeta: I expect you to put this away and react, that's what I expect... To what do I react? She has no right to fight, no right to express political attitude? There's no right here in parliament? I really don't understand you. (Natasa Jovanovic: I don't understand you, what you know, you deal with her. I invite you, if we can continue normally, to continue in a normal tone of debate. Now, I ask you, as collegiately, you are the vice president of Parliament as I am, I respect you, to start discussing this matter. Let me finish the sentence. No, you're out of time. Make a deal with what you want. Mr. Mircic wants a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69853	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work. I draw attention to all the MPs of the People's Assembly to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly, and I want them to help me and I will use all the instruments provided for by the Rules of Procedure to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. This applies to everything, starting with the MPs of the people, to the ministers and their associates. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69854	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. I appeal to my SNS colleagues, who are most responsible for this behavior, to normalize relations in the Assembly. It is inappropriate so far in the history of parliamentaryism that representatives of the executive government have treated MPs in such a bold and rude way. Of course, we understand that they're gunned down, we understand when it comes to considering and discussing a bill of law that doesn't have all the nice words and praises, but it's unacceptable to behave like this. We Serbian radicals are recognizable by this – we can forgive everything, we can tolerate everything, but crime and theft will not be tolerated. Everything can be wrong in the law, in the bill of amendments and addition to the law, but to steal, to shovel, we won't let that happen. As Serbian nationalists, we respect, above all, the state's interest. We're not even against the interest of the individual. That's why, as true gentlemen, we've determined for this occasion a nice, convenient gift to the Minister of Resort. Since she's famous for spending her money on buying personal belongings, we're now going to give her a nice gift. We may not be of your taste, but it is from your heart to you, so I would ask the public to see how wide we still have the width, unlike you, Mrs. Mihajlović. (The People's MP Milorad Mircic shows his underwear. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69855	Comrade Mircic, you do not have the consent of the chairman to approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69856	Here, look at what an item of clothing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69857	Mr. Mircic, I give you a warning. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I also give you a warning. Milorad Mircic: We attack on you as a person. I'll ask my colleague, Ruzica Nikolic, to approach the astal and give you a present. No one has the right to approach the chair table. (Milorad Mircic: If you don't like size, we'll replace no problem. ) (The National MP Ruzica Nikolic approaches Minister Zorana Mihajlovic's desk. I'm telling you, you have no right to approach. I give you a warning. I give you a second warning. I'm setting a five-minute break, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] We'll continue with further work. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69859	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, I'm going to talk a little bit about renewable energy, if the chairman approves. So, there's an old song, it says – down the Morava wind blows, the old peasant on plus 35 burns harvest leftovers. What are these verses saying? They talk about not using renewable energy sources, so we don't use enough hydropotentials, we don't use enough wind, we don't use enough solar energy, and most importantly, for me as a farmer, we don't use enough renewable energy, it's especially impressive that we don't use enough renewable energy from the harvest residues of biomass. So those who complain about air pollution do not realize that much of the pollution comes from burning harvests. In Vojvodina alone, you have a million and a half acres of farmland that produces, burns or destroys over three million tons of harvest residues or biomass. If we collected that biomass, first it would be good for air quality, by not burning harvest scraps anyway to make the air cleaner. The first pollution in Belgrade and around Belgrade would be the product of just burning harvest scraps, that's one thing. Second, the burning of harvest remains in the field is disrupted by the quality of the land, the microorganisms that need to renovate, restore, and be favourable to humus, and thus to preserve what generations before us, by producing in livestock and manure crops, used harvest residues to restore the quality of the land, not to reinvigorate it and destroy it. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think three million tons, and there's definitely someone here who's dealing with it, that three million tons of harvest leftovers, is equal to energy equal to a million tons of oil. So if you burn or destroy three million tons of harvest scraps, it's equal to energy equal to one million tons of oil. This could replace, meaning imports of two million tonnes of oil, we could reduce exports by 50%, and thus save 400m euros annually. That is why I believe it is good and I support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has recognised that, through the production of electricity from biomass, renewable energy production needs to be raised and this subsidized by a more favourable tariff. It is certainly good because of the quality of the air, it is good because of the quality of the land and it is useful in such a way that in future we can do what those yellow unfortunates did not want to do, to reduce the import of energy, and thus earn 400m euros that will go to agriculture, because harvests will be collected, make energy and what the farmer does not earn in livestock, will earn through the energy farm, through the production of electricity and heat, which can again be used by excess and heat to warm up plastics, greenhouses. It is possible to produce ethanol corn through this heat energy and thus increase income from agriculture, not to export millions of tons of cereals without importing meat, often of suspicious quality. That is why we support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I want to say that Serbia has finally become a normal country, because we are discussing renewable energy, we are discussing land quality, we are discussing air quality. It was almost inconceivable during these yellow cockroaches who boycotted the National Assembly but not the salary, because it was most important for them to build highways towards their pockets and place an enormous amount of national pairs on their accounts. As they gained everything, the people lost everything. It is up to us to build this country and build citizens' trust and be a normal state, which this government and the ruling majority want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69860	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69861	Honored present, the construction of roads is one of the basic indicators of the civilization of a society, and in general, construction and construction industries actually show a degree of development or dynamic development in a particular society. We look forward to any news of the announcement and the beginning of works on road construction. What seems to be the past few years in the area of much of the earth is joyful news and promises that the future can be better for us than the past. True, when we analyse areas, certain areas of this country, we will see that the issue of development, the economic development of a particular part of the country is largely related to the travel network, and where a certain space has been neglected for years or decades, there is also a very difficult issue to launch an economic initiative or dynamicize that area, even if there have been certain initiatives, such as the Sandzak area, or Novi Pazar, where certain years, the population of that area have shown exceptional ability and vitality for the start-up of the economy, especially small, medium, especially family enterprises, has been known to undertake with the production of confectious goods, furniture and some other activities that have been shining in Novi Pazar over the past years, but unfortunately, despite so much energy driven and which mirrors themselves in our citizens, unfortunately, we now have in our position to find out that there have been negative developments. There's first of all road infrastructure. I, with all this positive expectation, with all the joys we get from the other side, but we can't stay silent about that, regarding the Sanjay space, all the travel projects are still in phase, we expect, being. So, one deadline, another deadline, third deadline, we really can't do that anymore, it has to go concretely. So, there's been an announced highway across the cave, it's the oldest project in this country from those that haven't started, in general, Corridor 11 and we see that it's progressing from all sides, but then that share from Požeta via Ivanjica to Bolar is simply still a theoretical idea. We see that the Moravia Corridor that was mentioned for the first time, years after the beginning of the realization, Corridor 11 is actually already preceding this previous project, which we absolutely don't mind, but I ask you to finally with all the capacities, the Sandzak space is beginning to be treated as an integral part of the country. We are mostly talking about Sandzak when we hear some negative voices, some political ideas that are not of interest to this country and usually sees this area through the need for administrative and legal integration. There is no administrative, political and legal integration of a part of this country, without a full economic development economy and at all, psychological integration. I think these two discourses are in progress, especially in the operational section. We are also looking forward to intensifying construction activity in the Sandzak area, especially the Tutina and Novi Pazar area, but we must warn that we have the destruction of certain residential and business facilities, past, not to say, legal procedures, but certainly elementary and human principles. So, in the middle of New Pazar, in the center of Tutina, zero huge building, no meter of sidewalk, no meter of parking, no meter of green surface. These are mostly apartments that will be used by families with more children. We can't just look at it and ignore it. So I ask you, in addition to those basic and fictitious legal aspects, to take care of the construction strategy, through the Law on Urbanism, because there are things that cannot be corrected later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69862	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69863	Thank you, dear Vice President Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not plan to report on the amendment, nor much to comment on the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and they are about what they will do so that we can do as quickly as possible, more effectively, to build highways and build our infrastructure, I have reported more for ethical reasons, respecting the moral code and possibility, as the vice-president of Parliament to influence the fact that the debate is better, to be more polite and to discuss and focus on what is the future of our country, and to make this discussion in our Parliament more polite, better, and in line with what should define the reputation of this institution. What I can express is the full support of Minister Mihajlovic for everything she's done since 2014, as... (Miss Radeta: Confirmed with selfie.) ) Confirmed by selfy, yes, I am proud of it, of course, and you see I am not ashamed to say that, only for the reason that over 200km of highways have been made, because in Serbia today we celebrate life, because in Serbia we build railways, we build infrastructure, for our children, for our old people, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we build and modernize our country and of course I am grateful and that I will support everyone, of course, and Vice President Zoran Mihajlović, when he does such things for Serbia. What is very important is that this process and all that will happen in the coming period will be much easier, be much more efficient and cannot express my support for these aspirations of the vice president and her team, have more highways, have more bridges, have better communication and support and build the road to Sarajevo, build the way across, as counterpart Zukorlic spoke, across the cave to the border with Montenegro, but, of course, the integration of our country with Tirana and all that in this direction to achieve and implement the idea of our President Alexander Vukic, about "little Shengen", so that everything goes in favour of our country, in order to sell more goods, so that we can offer more services to the whole region. Of course, “condio syn qua non” is economic development, economic growth, everything we all hope to pursue here, better paths, better contact of our country and our companies with businesses and countries, especially in the environment, therefore, in our neighbourhood. I believe that there is no dilemma in this domain, that there should continue to be support for Minister Mihajlovic's work and that even more warmly we should defend the views and positions that make Serbia have as many foreign direct investments, better integration, definition and recognition of our country as economic and political leaders in the region. Why do you think, fellow MPs, why are we the economic and political leaders of this region? By calling ourselves that or because we have a nice commercial? Well, that's not true. I've got it because of those highways. We have precisely because some of my colleagues and I am giving them every right to criticise it because in Serbia they also build Chinese companies, companies from Azerbaijan, companies from Greece, companies from Spain, companies from America. Yes, "Bechtel" will build the Moravski Corridor for a length of 113km and it is good for Serbia because it is a signal to all investors around the world that they are welcome here, that there is a favourable investment environment in Serbia and that is what President Aleksandar Vukic's policy is. Criticizing and crucifying this woman on the cross, here, is a criticism of both the president himself and the overall concept of the majority of our parliament, our policy that is focused heavily on new jobs, the remaining young people here in Serbia, on economic development, finally what is called the Renaissance in the Republic of Serbia, political, economic, cultural and better geo-political positioning of our country. As far as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see, Serbia is a respected country today, but it is also respected because we are able to build a 100km highway annually, which we are able to build the Belgrade-Budapest railway, which will pass trains with a speed greater than 100, perhaps 150km per hour, which we are modernising our country and are ready to co-operate for the sake of our country's national interests and our citizens, and we are working with the People's Republic of China, and we are working with the Russian Federation, and we are working with the United States, but also with our strategic partners from the EU, because we want to do better with our people. And I think we should return, Your Honor, this discussion to the current that will define each other, our competition here, when it comes to ideas, when it comes to programs. I'd like to hear from my colleagues, maybe they have some idea of bringing in an investor from the Euro-Asian Union, who's going to come here to invest, to build one time, to build a factory, to open a job. We don't mind, let them go, let them help this country. They are very turbulent these times, it is a very challenging and very difficult geo-political situation for Serbia. We need allies, but we also need an internal consensus on key political and economic issues related to our country's progress. So I ask you to focus this debate on what life is, and the future of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as my colleague Martinovic said well this morning, to let go of the opening of the closet, the houses, as it carries, as it carries, who is married to. It gets a little in the way of what is said to be the basic definition of a civilized debate in the high home of the National Assembly. I don't think Serbia deserves this. Somehow, when we go back to history, in the twenties and thirties of the last century, we had better and better discussions than we had now. So, anyway, you need to support the results. What is essential in this business when it is run, apparently, the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic is your result of how many kilometers of highway was built, whether and how many passengers passed through the airport "Nikola Tesla". In 2012 or 2013, perhaps Mr Ilic will correct me, we had two and a half million passengers, and now we have over five million passengers and now someone will come and say – you know, that's wrong. Zorana Mihajlovic doesn't have a nice haircut. You know what? Let's get back to some serious debate, let's get back to discussing things that are important to our country. It is a very difficult time at a global level for us to have this debate in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69864	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69865	Thank you. In the town where I was born, in Kragujevac, in the city center, more precisely in the street where I grew up to some age of my childhood, and later by moving to another part of town, so much of historical and cultural importance was destroyed under the patronage of the urban mafia and not the reaction of Zorana Mihajlović and the Republic of building inspection to that fact. Serbian citizens know that the house of Đura Jaksic has completely collapsed, just across the street from the house where I was born, that there has begun to be zero multiples there in places where the Nikolic family has a direct interest in providing it to investors, to launder money through the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, and of course, it will show the time when the ball was wrapped and what is the direct role of Zorana Mihajlovic and in such businesses. In the end, everything is nice, these are new details, and this hairdresser and how she came through Tomislav Nikolic to the Serbian Progressive Party, Mrs Radeta explained it. I guess with gratitude everything is allowed in a city that had one, however, such an urban picture until the coming of the unfortunate, Radomer Nikolic to power. However, Mr. Arsic, we still have a lot of laws before us that have been proposed by the Ministry. I don't have any government representatives, except Mrs. Damnjanovic, here to whom, and if he were really competent, I would turn at this point to ask for the acceptance of any amendment. In accordance with Article 150. Rules of Procedure, I ask you, Mr Arsic, to inform immediately, and Article 151 Mrs Anna Brnabic, the Prime Minister, who has sent us these legislative proposals, that the SRS parliamentary group is asking for the second representative of the government to be provided to continue the debate under these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69866	The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69867	Article 21 The bill, but not the draft, refers to Article 70. The Law on Planning and Construction and it speaks of land for regular use, land under buildings and land around buildings, so that it could all do one whole. Mrs. Mihajlović, you know that I am one of perhaps rare radicals who agrees with you in something, which is an education to come from the house. I'd like you to tell me where the thief is learning? I couldn't learn it, I couldn't master it, well, just theoretically, if it's not a problem, when you answer, and you don't have to do it, it doesn't matter at all. You said earlier that some members of the SRS had responded to the courts and I couldn't see between you and Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov, as it is called, Nenada Chanka and many others, who spoke about The Hague tribunal. Anyone who was invited to give a statement and as a witness to the defense was proud not to speak from our party president, who was ready to go on an official trip for 12 years. You could never do that, you shouldn't, you're not that character of a person, but now it doesn't matter. This article 70, I've already said what he's talking about and adding a new attitude that talks about condominium, which is instead of a complex of residential buildings, and we assume that you wanted to solve it, because a large number of citizens in Serbia are now, precisely because of what I'm asking about how and where the thief learns, doesn't mean everyone, certainly, because there are valuable, hardworking, professional people, recognised in their environments and institutions where they work and can earn more than others, some of them have been abroad and bought these apartments with special conditions, where the buyer says in advance what he wants, and then the common rooms that are so on a high level and this system of housing are not just a place to live, but also a place to enjoy, because it allows a much better and more comfortable living standard than others. But probably when they buy these apartments, there's still a problem with the need to continue paying for those costs, so you've predicted in this attitude how and how it can be done. Now, yesterday, I told you two days ago that there are security forces who got apartments for temporary use in 2012, where they pay rent, and they can't buy them out. And imagine that, I can't tell the poor guy, it's a man who went to Kosovo and Metohija several times, defended our country, and today as a retired member of the police force, he's willing to put himself in the service of the country and when he knows of his unresolved housing problem and read this here, see what he's doing, where he is. Are you planning on building more of these objects in the next period? How's all this gonna end? Mr. Martinovic, I agree with you when you said we didn't need anyone else, this is enough, but you know, always some of the others you named, I can also mention those names, both Colinda and Milanovic and Milo Djukanovic, they sow their seeds here in Serbia, and then they don't need to do anything. It will do so for them and Zorana Mihajlovic and a number of other such or similar, unfortunately, members of the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69868	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask and Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, please and my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, that if this session is possible, we return to normal flows and try not to all of us together to cast a shadow of an event that is very important to the Serbian people today, important for the relations of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and BiH, which is also important for the relations of the Republic of Serbia and BiH, and this is the visit of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic, two municipalities in the Federation of BiH, which are Drvar and Mrkonjic City. To these visits, Alexander Vucic sends a clear message, first of all, to the Serbian people who remained to live in the Federation of BiH that he has a state in Serbia that will at any moment help him in both political and economic terms and at the same time, we send a message to BiH that we want good neighbourly relations, that we want peace, that we want stability, that we want economic development and economic prosperity, that the time of the wars is behind us and that now we all together with the Bosniaks, together with some new future, economic development, traffic integration, development of science, culture, spirituality and all that one people within him and then one nation can join together. In that sense, here, I ask you too, Mr Arsic, to withdraw the warnings you have given and that, if at all possible, we continue this debate in a civilized spirit, because I think that whoever was watching the National Assembly session today, and not a friend of Serbia and the Serbian people, could only laugh and rub his hands and mock us and you. I am convinced that all of us sitting in this hall, regardless of which political party we belong, want well to the Republic of Serbia, its citizens, that we want well to the Republic of Serbia, that we want well both BiH and people living in both Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Today's a day that's not very common. The presidents of the Republic of Serbia were before Alexander Vukic, some went to apologize for crimes that Serbs did not commit. The President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, has introduced a new practice, which is that apologies of a protocol nature mean nothing, but that we can only put an end to the past by turning to the future, economic development, integration, peace, co-operation and stability. Here, I ask you in the name of continuing this debate in a civilised spirit, as is the case with the National Assembly and that it really does not fall shadow, and it has already fallen, but that it does not fall further, to what the President of the Republic of Serbia did today, along with a certain group of ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, visiting Drvar and Mrkonjic City.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69870	I thank my colleague Martinovic for the support you give the presidents to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Of course, in the course of the day, the Management Board, on my part, will be informed of these warnings that were made in the previous session and I will draw these warnings from the written path. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69871	We Serbian radicals absolutely everything we want best for Republika Srpska, and I guess no one can question it, as well as any Serb wherever they live on the globe of the Earth. It's a little inappropriate to say, it's the easiest thing to say, that we're getting distracted that we need something to get in line, etc., and it's not going to say what happened in the National Assembly, and something that's never happened, but absolutely never happened. We discussed here yesterday with Minister Sinisha Mali, we had a lot of objections to the bill, we had replicas and there were no hard words, there were no offensive words. You cannot put what caused Zorana Mihajlovic on the soul of the SRS. We simply won't allow it, and it would be best to really, in accordance with Article 151, if you want a normal continuation of this session, although we don't think we've done anything abnormal before, ask the Prime Minister to come here as much as he respects the National Assembly. The humiliations that the National Assembly, not any of us individually, experienced today by Zorana Mihajlovic, this parliamentaryism, the parliamentary life in Serbia, are restored and not known. We simply will not take part of the responsibility for what Zorana Mihajlovic is responsible for. She told me she couldn't wait to go to The Hague. I don't think that's the politics of the Serbian state and that's not Alexander Vukic's policy, as far as I know, but Zoranina is, and you're telling me something against Zorana. We are just drawing attention to the way the minister function, which obviously does not fit even what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, in particular. She tells me my behavior is a matter of my education, etc. Everyone's behavior is a matter of education. I was raised to be honest, honest, patriot, to advocate the interests of my country and my people in every place, and I was not raised to lie, to steal, to kidnap, to betray the state. I'm sorry there's that difference between the two of us. Now here, imagine, you're the folk MPs who have been talking for days, months about the wealth of the School, Gilas, and we support it, let's repeat often these figures you're talking about, it's nothing questionable. So, their wealth can be talked about, and when we ask – where Zorani Mihajlović's wealth comes from, then you say don't peek into the closets, don't peek into the houses, etc., and it's she who sent Nebojsa Stefanovic to the press to take pictures of his house on Bežanja's hair. You heard it on your presidency, Mr. Martinovic. (President: Radeta colleagues. ) Dear Arsic, as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we have been talking all day about government proposals and, of course, it is impossible for you to understand, so you are MPs, that it is impossible to talk about the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not to talk about the person of a minister representing a particular portfolio. For some ministers we spoke here – Ministers, you have a good relationship with the MPs and we love when you come, we love to replicate with you. You know very well that we've been replicating 30-40 minutes with some ministers, but these are people who respect the National Assembly. Zoranna didn't do it. Mr. Martinovic, take advantage of your authority and ask Ana Brnabic, the Rules of Procedure allow you to send another representative of the government here, whoever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69872	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've had another scandal in the National Assembly that hasn't been recorded. Apparently, the current minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia imitates Ljoticvac in this National Assembly. You remember recently that Ljoticevic attacked the physical president of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Martinovic, and Maja Gojkovic. Please, this is not recorded in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism. Mr Vice-President, the provisions of Articles 105, 106, 107, 108, 109 and 110 shall apply in accordance with Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which it states, are the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly session, applied to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. I cannot forget the event when Ljoticevic attacked Bosko Obradovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group. Physically attacked him here, a man who tried to maintain order and somehow continued the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's important, has been confirmed that there is corruption in the building room. It is indisputable to make the director of the infrastructure, Zeleznica Serbia, arrested. If he's been arrested illegally, the person who arrested him should answer. Where did this man work? So, he worked in the vault where Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is. What I'd like to say, SNS ministers, authentic, behave properly here, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and political morality, and these G17 flyers and others prove who they are, what they are, where they come from, and whether they should be given the trust they were given. Mrs. Mihajlovic is talking about some courts... (President: Col. Jojic, in accordance with Article 106(1), after you quoted the Rules of Procedure, please behave in accordance with this article. ) Let me just say something, because I was mentioned indirectly. Mrs. Mihajlovic mentions some courts. If you think, Mrs. Mihajlovic, at The Hague, I am proud, I defended Serbs, and I was not on the side of the NATO Pact. On the other hand, no court in this country is looking for us, perhaps your court is looking for us, but you tell the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic today which court you thought you were looking for, whether you were looking for us or for someone else, so ask the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69874	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69875	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group submitted this amendment to Article 26. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. The promoter of these amendments wants Article 26 to implement the amendment of Article 128 of the Law, which is currently in force and which explains the fact that the law lacked a "professional name". It was necessary to introduce it in order to bring it into line with the Law on regulated professions, which was fully adopted by the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive, which constitutes a roof law in this area and all sectoral laws must comply with that roof law. The name of licensed architects, or licensed engineers, shall be introduced to comply with the Directive. Description of the award of professional qualifications, because this professional title gives the person the authority to carry out a regulated profession because it means that the person is qualified to perform a regulated profession, because he has satisfied all the required, formal and professional conditions. The Serbian Radical Party proposes to amend the removal of Article 26. The bill, which the National Assembly is currently under discussion about, among other things, because in this case criteria are being reduced in the work that refers to what is considered a professional experience. It is proposed that professional experience be considered to have gained experience in the design, that is, co-operation, of the design of a project from an appropriate professional or professional field for which an expert examination is carried out. The law currently in force, professional results for the projector, shall be considered as results achieved at the management, manufacture or co-operation of at least two projects. The adoption of this amendment would be of great benefit, because professional people who will deal with these responsible jobs would not be questioned how this bill wants them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69876	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, as regards this article 27, it is also required to be deleted, as well as other members of this law for the same reason we have heard here many times, and now I would not repeat it. I will continue where I stood on my previous amendment, and it is urban chaos, primarily in the city centers, or central city cores. This is the situation we have in Belgrade and of course in all major cities of Serbia. Here, let's say, what kind of policy is this, to give an example, although I'm not a Belgrade citizen, to illustrate the example of New Belgrade. The new Belgrade is a city built by all rules, in the spirit of all the rules of urban planning and everything else and indeed a beautiful city that can be the pride of all Serbia. But whoever once started planned certain parts of New Belgrade, we all know, especially us who have a little more years, that there was only one building at this business center called Ustasha, and that was a building so-called. CK – The Central Committee, of course, is not only your merit, in the meantime the first business center "Moses", which is basically much bigger than that first existing building CK, is now being built by all of us. Of course, I'm no expert in architecture, but I just wanted to go through this illustrative example to show which direction construction planning is going in our country. It may soon occur to someone here in Belgrade that even across the business centre "Moses", on the other side, on that green surface, where concerts and BIR festivals are held and others make something else. So, with that kind of policy, it has to stop, because it's a real rush and a real one, I'd call it, urbicide on the central city core, where it's just the goal of as many squares as possible, as much money, and if there's any accompanying content, if there's a possibility that these people can approach their apartments, park their cars and everything else, and nobody's taking care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69878	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 28th amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69879	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. Like my previous amendment, where I expressed concern that an incompetent state administration with this kind of policy would lead citizens to a stalemate here I express another kind of fear. Every new amendment to the law is, as a rule, worse than the previous version. No legal solution so far has seen the complete situation in the territory of our entire country. There are many open issues here that have a negative impact on one area that literally affects every Serbian citizen. As the person who was born and spent most of his life in KIM, I ask the minister what is the situation down here, how much money has her ministry singled out to build housing in the area of KIM? Here, above all, I think of those environments that are mostly inhabited by the Serb population. If only 10% of the money that was unnecessarily donated to the US firm Bechtel was invested in the Serb environments in KIM today would have at least several thousand more of our countrymen down there. But who in this ministry is still thinking about Serbs who are left to live in KIM territory? The existing law is not possible to fix any changes and additions. In addition, the proposed changes are in the interest of a small number of people and provide for the issue of construction permits for mini power plants without the planned documentation. These changes will be a source of abuse and will cause the dissatisfaction of a large number of people in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69880	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69881	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the reasons for the adoption of this bill, you stated above all the need to comply with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction with EU regulations with all kinds of directives, such as the Directive on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, and then, through a directive on regulated professions, with the Services Directive, and I don't know any more about what directives and commissioners we're not going to be dealing with here. I'm going to list here the most significant changes to this proposal to monitor the situation in space. It's a register of investment sites. Then, it is proposed to specify the provisions on the preparation of the urban project, as well as to specify the provisions on the possibility of developing an urban project, as well as that the precise provisions on the compatibility of the plan's intentions are. The term "condominium" has also been introduced as a form of organisation in a closed housing block or complex, as well as the possibility of forming a remizione commission. One of the newspapers is that the ministry's responsibility to decide on complaints made in the city of Belgrade has also been restored. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the irregular development of Serbia, so I would like to mention in this context the construction of a highway to Montenegro that will pass and bypass many municipalities of southwestern Serbia, which would thus develop both infrastructure and tourism. We know that communists built railway and highway routes to Lima because it was the cheapest and shortest route and just to remind ourselves that the trade trade with Montenegro is close to a billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69882	Thank you, Professor. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69883	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through previous discussions, we have proven to you that this law is not possible to correct any changes and additions and that the changes are exclusively in the interest of a small number of citizens. My colleagues from the parliamentary group have already asked the minister about robbing citizens at the collection shops, or stations, which you will agree to, is a serious problem because many tolls have been charged five times as much as they should have. I would also take the opportunity to ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic how is it possible to get a toll card on a charge ramp with someone else's registration number, or the registration number of the vehicle that was in front of you? How is that possible, and often happens. The question is, what kind of fraud is this now, and a new possible robbery of citizens? We all know that the toll is charged according to the vehicle category, so if in front of you, or in front of your vehicle, there was a bus or a truck, you will pay the toll many times more than you should. I'm asking you this because at the Jagodina toll station, I got a toll card with the registration number of the vehicle that was in front of me, and there was a bus outside, and since I often crossed that stock during that period, when I was paying, I saw that the toll was much bigger than usual. So I ask how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia are this way damaged, or robbed, and I appeal to all citizens to pay attention, so that they will not be deceived in this way. I'd like to ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic how much is her percentage in this whole thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69884	Thank you. Mr. Miletic, have you responded to this amendment by Mrs. Nikolic or by any chance? Yes, it is. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69885	Thank you. Dear fellow government officials, I've spoken before, and now I'm talking about these payment payments, about paying tolls. I can also be as a man who comes from southeastern Serbia, i.e. from Svrlig, satisfied with the co-operation with the "Serb Paths" in one part, because we as a local self-government and also the town of Nis also signed and agreed that citizens living in the territory of the local government of the town of Nis have the opportunity to cross the payment ramps that go across the highway. Otherwise, I was one of the advocates to make payment ramps and tolls not where they are now, but since it was agreed in some previous period, I know that it was back a few years, it had to be done and it was done to ensure that the state of Serbia would, as it is said, provide more means to maintain roads and build roads in each part of our Republic of Serbia, so that it would be Svrljig and Bela Palanka and Gadjin Han and those municipalities that have a lot of roads that are in worse shape but are now slowly but certainly working and building. Otherwise, "Serbian Roads" along with local self-governments, with the president of the municipality, signed with Mayor Nisa that they would sign the possibility that citizens who go from Svrlig from the direction of Svrlig would go across the highway. They'll have a free pass, and part of the cost will be covered by local self-government from their budget. It's the same for the city of Nis. When someone says -- well, it's not free, it's that the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budgets of local self-government are filled with real resources, from everything that citizens do, businessmen do, farmers do, but, on the other hand, the budgets of local self-government should be used for the needs of citizens, so whether it's building roads, solving water supply, whether it's sports organisations, whether it's education, whether it's anything. And this is part of making it easier for all of us together. So, I think maybe there's a mistake sometimes, and every mistake needs to be handled by the one who made the mistake. I am sure that the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as each of us who are here, do not want to do any harm to the citizens of Serbia. I once again think I support the Ministry's work. It's a good thing we can work, make roads, work highways, work railways, work airports, provide better conditions for infrastructure, because normally it will give higher results when investors come to us tomorrow, that there are better roads, better railways. The witness to that is part of the railroad that's being worked by Nis through Svrlig, by Zajechor, over there towards the Dust. It's an airport, it's being upgraded, roads are working. It would be good and it is good that local self-government has the right to provide free transportation, free tolls for its citizens, so that the citizen of Nisa does not pay for it. Once again, Deputy Prime Minister, I think it is good to continue and build everywhere, with the emphasis on living better in every part of our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69886	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69887	Thank you for saying that. This is primarily the support of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry that I run. I think Nis is strategically important, i.e. we in the government think it's strategically important and that was one of the reasons why we invested so much in Nis airport, but also in the railway, not only the bypass line, but above all Nis-Dimitrovgrad and, of course, the completion of Corridor 10 which is so significant. Those who deal with lies, they will drown in lies, but what is important for us, for Serbia, is to move forward and continue to do so. As far as the toll is concerned, the toll question has been resolved. They're also important because it's the money we use to maintain the highways first of all and because we're actually recording today an incredible jump in the number of cars passing through Corridor 10. That's because this is the ministry, this government and our president have done everything that we can today be proud of. You know, of the 34 million cars that were in Corridor 10 a few years ago, close to 60 million with what ended in 2019, it's said that in Serbia and how it works. Whoever wants to see it, who doesn't want it to be a thing for every single person, but what's also important, whatever is said and how many people are insulted by certain public functions, is the fact that the results are the only criterion of any work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69888	Thank you. Right on the line, Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69889	Thank you. Everything you said was right in that part because, these days, there's a contract for separation in the area of Pirot, where there's now a possibility that our people who there, the 17 or 18 villages have the opportunity to do that intersection, that people can go to those villages, that they can go to the Old Mountain. In this way we have a great chance of working within tourist capacities. One thing we talked about earlier, and I'm gonna say one more time right now, it's really my priority, and I've always talked about it. The payment ramp, everything was done what it had to do and now it's going its course. It's important that we finish that part of the road we talked about last time, Malchanic Loop, Bookie Street. When I was with Mayor Nisa, we talked about it and the contract was signed, I expect he'll be on his way to the highway soon. What I said the same thing, and it's important for that part of the Malcanic loop, is another entrance to Nis across the village of Prosec, a project has been done, and now that part remains to be done. That's what we talked to the mayor of Nis and the head of the county. All these things we do now and part of the road, when it's done part of the road from Malcana loop to Književci Street, that part of the road is about 6.5 km and it's so important to us who come from eastern Serbia, from Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar. It's important because we don't want to go across the highway right now. The purpose is possible because it's being refunded from the community budget and these people don't need to pay, but for those people who come from surrounding municipalities this time to Književska Street, it's important that it will mean a lot to them. He's in bad shape now. There are a large number of economic operators, these are very serious companies that work on the territory of the city of Nis and are very important to them this time, so that they can function more easily. There is even a need to build a boulevard, or project to work on. Once again, it's good to do, to do what we started, let's say the road to Stara Planina through Srlig, is in excellent condition. I invite all my colleagues to come to Nis, to Srlig, so we can go to the Old Mountain together to see what the road is like. When you pass that part of the road like that, it's like we're in Switzerland. I will support you once again because I think you are working positively and it is good that every part of our Serbia can work, build and move on like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69890	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Mikhailo Jokic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69891	Dear Minister, I would like to point out a very important and important moment that no one has spoken of. I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry have chosen the right time to invest and to build. Today money is the cheapest stuff. Today is the time to invest. We're witnessing that the money is withdrawn from the banks, that there's a negative interest in banks. Many talk and write that the euro may experience the fate of the brand. We know and see Americans pump more and more dollars into circulation, that gold as the mother of all currencies is also falling. So this is the moment to invest as much as possible, because that money is going to get through these charging ramps, which you're talking about, through those cars that are going through those ramps. We'll keep our money that way and it'll come back, maybe not to us, but to our children, etc. So, the best example of investment is what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing right now and what your ministry is doing by investing and making these credit arrangements both in euros and in dollars, although I'm more willing to do it in euros, because the domination of dollars has to be interrupted, because the dollar that once covered 100% of the markets, according to some of the latest information, is now covering about 70% of that market. That's it. I'm just saying this is the only way to keep going as long as they exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69892	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69893	If we did not have this attitude to these bill proposals, that is, this bill which we claim to be disastrously bad, inapplicable, this member to whom the amendment applies, as referred to in Article 142, and everything that Zorana Mihajlovic is doing, flows, through possible corruption. It's just that a woman can't do without it. It's about the construction or reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities if the elemental disasters occur, etc., and then it's about some investors, I guess that sort of thing is solved by the state, if it's an elemental accident, then the state is dealing with the team, Mr. Marinkovic. But that's not how it works with Zorana. She does it through various of her Miroljub Jeftic. We ask that as soon as the D.A.'s office is clear on what has been done so far in the case of Miroljub Jeftic, who, we recall, admitted to taking bribes for legalisation and that most of that money was given by Zorani Mihajlovic, or her partner, as she says. So, we want to know the truth, not how it's being conducted in public, Mr. Marinkovic, we've seen the transparency here again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69894	Coliga Arsic and Milicevic, we have all tried and colleagues Martinović spoke to your MP group and here I am once again trying to ask you to talk about the law. You said it yesterday, I heard it. You're entitled to your position, but if you want to continue the normal debate, then I'm asking if we can talk about the amendments, about the law. That's correct, collegiate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69895	This is pretty crazy. You know what this reminds me of? Like when Shipari makes an incident at KIM and then someone from the EU comes in and tells Alexander Vukic - both sides should drop the ball.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69896	So what am I now, Maja Kocijančić? What do you mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69897	Well, it's amazing. You're the vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69898	I said what I had down there when I was in the bench. I'm ready to defend that bet. Please now as your fellow MP to continue normally without any tension.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69899	Mr. Marinkovic, you are the vice president of the National Assembly and I appreciate that. I'm talking to both you and Mr. Martinovic and Arsic, everyone who's trying to flip the game. It all reminds me when I say that when some chiptar makes an incident on KIM and comes from the EU and says to Vukic - both sides should drop the ball. You've been commenting on it a hundred times on TV shows and judging it. We're judging, of course. You must know who's cutting, who's wearing water. That must also be known in the National Assembly. I'm sorry that some of you have some personal sympathy for Zorana Mihajlovic for this reason or for that reason, we're not getting into it. I'm talking about the fact, I'm talking about Miroljub Jeftic, the man who said in the investigation that he was taking money for bribery, legalization and part of the money was giving Zorana Mihajlovic. She can't put this banner...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69900	I'm asking you, Comrade Radet, if you don't mind, I'll set a five-minute break. There is a break, a sea break, a colleague of Radeta who knows the Rules of Procedure well and all procedures, perhaps best here in the National Assembly, speaks all the time outside of the amendment, outside of the discussion. I can understand the political intent, but I'm asking you collectively again to continue our normal work. I'm setting a five-minute break, so we don't just insult each other and challenge each other, talk about the amendment. You said that, we heard you, there are organs that will do their job and that's it. Don't take this woman...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69901	Let me get on with it. You've been eating me two minutes anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69902	I took a break, please. We'll give you back your time, what I said, we'll give back time, we'll be correct. I'm asking you to be correct, too. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mrs. Radeta, you have 45 seconds left that I took from you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69904	Okay. So, you listened here just a few minutes ago when Zorana Mihajlovic, speaking of something we talked about, who, as she said - who lies will drown in lies. You do not mind what the minister says to the Messengers of the people, and we say to the MPs of the SRS, "Whoever is a thief will end up in prison." Now, you like it, you don't like it, I don't know what to tell you, but we can't say otherwise about it. Don't try to stop us from asking the prosecution to inform the public, which is the role of Zorana Mihajlovic in criminal activities, stealing money from Miroljub Jeftic. That's all we asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69905	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69906	You're asking us to be here to the end seriously. We are serious and responsible people, and that's how we do this job, someone shorter, someone longer, but we don't have an adequate talker, because Zorana Mihajlović certainly isn't. It is absolutely not understood in this area from which it proposes laws, because if it knew anything, it would not come to this Assembly with so many amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. It is not interested that Kragujevac has not completed the southern or northern bypasses, nor that the property disputes are unresolved, nor that the people can normally drive cars on the stock mentioned by counterpart Jovanovic, from Topola to Kragujevac, because they are not her priorities at all. The priorities of these ladies are where there is a model for corruption, for thieving, etc. And then he says -- radicals lie. And what's scandalous, here I am, Mr. Marinkovic, here in the sixth term of the National Assembly, and her colleague Filip Stojanovic, who has been here the longest since 1992, has shown transparency and is saying that we are allegedly lying. For all we're saying, we have clear arguments. We're looking for and we're also asking the state authorities to deal with it. As you expect, Mr. Marinkovic, that people who are sick of this minister's behaviour, Zorana Mihajlovic, and people who are under her patronate, come here, I guess, to come in and say, I'm wanted so much and so much in the catastro that I do my job. Or, I've got Zoran's people coming to say that to me by some investor, so I can start with that job, give me that kind of money. Can these people come in here or are we the representatives of the people to put all this out and talk about things in the language of facts that hurt Serbian citizens? A normal, ordinary man such abuse and such a kind of arrogance certainly hurt, and we are here to protect these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69907	Thank you. The word is Dr. Mihajlo Jokic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69908	I need to ask you a question for the minister. I already get 10 SMS messages, where they ask - what will be and when will be the path of Valjevo-Kosjerić-Požega. Here, now, the last text message is from the former president of the municipality, Millian. He's the 11th person who texted me. I'm asking if you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69909	The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69910	I'd love to. As we have promised and completed, in this part, this very particular road is in the new project "Five thousand kilometers of roads" that will be working from this year. But don't make a mistake. It's mostly project technical documentation this year, and here it is, so next year it's going to be papers and this year it's going to be paperwork. What's important to you, in March of the month we start to do the Valjevo-Iverak highway and that's what we do in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69911	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 35th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 35th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69912	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, to build 320km of highways, while reducing the percentage of public debt per GDP is a direct undertaking. When we compare this with Montenegro, which only works 40km of highway that has not yet finished, that public debt is growing 600m euros annually, or 13 to 14% of GDP, it would mean that if we recalculated in Serbia that kind of construction would mean that public debt should grow somewhere about 7-8 billion times the highways that Serbia has built. So, Montenegro is building its 40km in the last two years, 600m euros have grown public debt, which is 13% of Montenegro's GDP, for two years, so 26% have grown public debt, and have failed to build a 40km highway. Hence, perhaps these events may also be in Montenegro, because it is sailing in economic trouble, and Serbia is slowly coming out of economic hardships and hardships, building its infrastructure, raising its processing capacity and raising its GDP, which is growing from construction, which is from tourism, and most of all from industry and processing. In Montenegro, for example, industrial production fell by 8% year-on-year. So, only when we compare ourselves to Montenegro, which was several steps above Serbia, up to a few years ago, can we see what is the success of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling majority and state leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69913	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69914	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic and my associates, I wanted to relate to a colleague who spoke before me about hundreds of miles of highways built that are important for connecting our cities and municipalities, but also for Serbia with the region. I also want to give more good examples from Nis. We can talk about them when it comes to construction, traffic, infrastructure. One of the projects very important for Nišlje is the removal of the railway line from the city centre and the construction of a railway bypass around Nis. The train bypass around Nis in the length of 22 km is part of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway electrification project. The works will cost about 268m euros and a large part is financed from the European Investment Bank's loan. The city of Nis is located in a place where Corridor 10 is divided into two arms -- one heading towards Bulgaria, one heading towards Greece. The track passes through the city center, as I have stated, and part of Nis to Bulgaria is actually the only part of Corridor 10 that has no electricity. One reason to move is the idea to move freight traffic out of town and to separate passenger traffic from freight traffic on the access railway section to the city, i.e. the aim of liberating the city from freight traffic, which will reduce noise, pollution and other harmful influences. Also, in addition to these benefits, for Nislims living near the railway, or in the city center, this new track will increase speed, reduce train travel times and train retention times in stations. So we're talking about moving the railroad that involves eight rail lines passing through the city. The number of trips in progress is only one day 260, and about 70% are freight trains and an increase in the number of trains is foreseen. Then we can all conclude why moving that railroad out of the city center is important for people living near the railroad. Realisation of this project will greatly improve the quality of life of Niš citizens, but also the quality of the railroad itself, which will be removed from the city centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69915	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69916	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, significant changes to this law are professional qualifications in the area of planning and construction, licensing to engineers, architects and spatial planners to carry out this type of professional work. It's about constant training and knowledge acquisition, competence. Amendments and additions to the Law will create conditions for faster and more efficient implementation of infrastructure projects that are important for the Republic of Serbia. Procedures are reduced, permits are allowed to be issued faster. All this is important because of the acceleration of the project's realisation from the new investment plan, whose total value is greater than 5 billion euros. The "Serbian 2025" investment plan refers to traffic, energy, municipal infrastructure and covers the construction of fast traffic stations, projects in road and rail transport, such as construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, the Moravian Corridor, the Fruskogorski Corridor, as well as the construction of a fast track of Belgrade-Budapest, reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway. Today we're talking about connecting, road, rail, air, water. The basic idea of connecting all different projects is to create a more modern, more successful, more organised and efficient Serbia. With organised public finances, stability and a more recent investment plan, Serbia is developing. That tells us how far Serbia goes forward. These are important corridors. We'll be able to take fast and new paths. Today, Serbia is a major construction site with a restored construction industry that contributes significantly to the continued growth of GDP, the reduction of the number of unemployed and the growth of business activities. That's good news, that's huge progress. All of this means, every growth, according to the rate of growth, with our progress, greater revenue in the budget. The salaries will be higher and the pensions will be higher. You can do all this when you have stable finances. With a responsible policy of money that we earn, we invest in something that stimulates our growth. Today, Serbia, thanks to Alexander Vukic and the SNS, can do much more than before than those who devastated her, who robbed her, left us to solve problems and never thought of taking care of young people, members of the security force, anyone but them. All of this is in the economic interest of Serbia growing, developing. Much has been done and invested in improving the business environment, progress on international lists, and today we are in ninth place. All of this will allow Serbia to continue our country's economic growth in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69917	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69918	It would be perfectly normal for us here to discuss the nuances of the amendments and additions of this law, however, instead of seeing how useful it is and how harmful it is to license spatial planners. When it comes to foreign faces, we here have to deal with something that reminds us of earlier periods when the G17 representatives were ministers in the government, above all Mladjan Dinkic, who had this style as currently Zorana Mihajlovic, who told the current governor of the NBS as a member of the government that he was lying as a dog. Then it was not enough for him, but a step further, which he later admitted had deceived the public that those who voted for Tadic would have 1,000 euros each. Doesn't this atmosphere remind you now of that period, when someone who is primal still in that matrix of political here treats the representatives of those whom the people have chosen? You think, dear colleagues from the ruling coalition, that's good, because you're not the target group. You're wrong. You're wrong. It's only a matter of a moment, if you allow this, a question of the moment when you will come to your turn. After all, elections go, no one can be sure about what the results will be. After the election, everything is possible, but one thing is certain – if the SRS is able to participate in the executive government, run this Serbia, they will be heavily dealt with by those who are the bearers of crime and criminal activities, and among them all those who were Fenders G17+.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69919	Thank you. He has his word, according to the amendment, Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69920	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mrs Mihajlovic, respected guests from the ministry, respected MPs who are in the hall, reading the bill's proposal, the justification and reasons for the adoption of this law can be concluded that they affect the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. even regional and local economic development, as well as international and internal integration. In addition to building highways, I wouldn't list them here, because the predecessors talked a lot about highways, or a lot of talking about the construction of fast roads, I'd like to raise the question of investing in the Railways. As you know, President Vukic announced, representing the 20-25 programme, and the government, in its work plan and the 2020 budget, continued for 2021 and 2022, estimated about five billion euros for investment in infrastructure projects, including the Railways. I will list: construction of the fast track Belgrade – Budapest, construction of the Belgrade subway, reconstruction of the Jajinci railway – Mala Krsna, reconstruction of the Nis railway – Dimitrovgrad, reconstruction of the Nis – Brestovac railway, reconstruction of the regional railways and others. In this regard, I would like to ask Mrs Mihajlovic – why is the Nis railway – Belgrade that should be reconstructed up to a speed of 130km per hour not mentioned? Now we have the next situation. The Belgrade track – Novi Sad – Budapest is planned up to 200km per hour, and the Belgrade railway – Nis up to 130km is planned up to 130km per hour. That is why President Vukic asked the government and the regional ministry to consider the possibility that this part of the railway would be built for speed, so that after twenty years, they would not reshuffle the same, as needs would be increased. If you can answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69921	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69922	Let me get this out of the way. This isn't my number. So, we started working on a fast track in Belgrade – Budapest and it will be 200km per hour. So, it's the First Section, the Second Section, Belgrade -- Stara Pazova, Stara Pazova – Novi Sad, and from March of the month the works on the Novi Sad section begin, and worse and worse, to the border. At the same time, we started to do project technical documentation for this particular section that you asked about, Belgrade – Nis – Presevo. Belgrade -- Nis will be at speed, so it is still being considered whether 160km per hour, so not 130, but 160km per hour, or 200km per hour. This year's decision is to be made, probably up here by May, and then next year we could be working on a financing contract. The stock from Nis to Presevo is the share we're going to go 120 kilometers an hour. It is certainly important for us because this entire track of Corridor 10 is important for us, and above all for the cargo cargo transport, it is also important for passengers, but Kargo transport is something that is a priority. So it's realistic to expect that next year we can have a financing contract and that the works can start because this year and part of the beginning of next year, practically completed documentation. And I think it's just as important for Serbia as any highway we've finished because if we want to develop our transit traffic at all, then that's exactly that Corridor 10, so it goes north to the south and connects us, after all, to a very important port in Greece.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69923	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69924	I would ask you once again, as did President Vukic, to consider this possibility of this railroad being actually built 200 kilometers an hour, because I am not an expert, an engineer, but the land through Vojvodina is exactly the same as the land along the Morava valley. There's no problem with the Sitician Cliss, there's no problem with the Gredel Cliss, and there's already an existing railway line. So, think again if it's technically possible that when we build something for all time, not that after 20 or 30 years we're doing a reconstruction, such as, if you've listened to my previous exposure when I mentioned Mr. Simonovic who wanted to reverse the city of Nis in such a way that he wanted to electrify the railway through Nis and traffic in Nis would have been cemented for all time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69925	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. Professor Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69926	Just a little supplement. So, in our 2025 investment plan, there is a Belgrade-Nish railway, Nis-Presevo. We ask the profession. The profession still provides its preliminary estimates for Belgrade-Nish. It is not disputed that we would all like 200 kilometers an hour, but the value of this investment is huge and it is quite a difference between 200 kilometers and 160 kilometers. What is certain is that the heavy terrain is only from Nis to Presevo and that share will cost almost as much as Belgrade-Nish for these reasons, but it will certainly be less mileage. So we're closer to the decision of Belgrade-Nish 200km, Nis-Presevo 130km. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69927	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 37. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69928	I'll try to professionally talk about this amendment, but before that, I have one thing to say. The best and authentic representative "one of five million" is Zorana Mihajlovic. When I saw how well she held that banner, there she was, fitting in for the front row, and it was, however, and Mrs. Verica Radeta once said, I didn't believe, she was well-informed, and so that's the truth now. Now let me talk a little bit about this Law of Planning and Construction. Articles 150 and 151 speak of those who can perform the work, which conditions should be met by a contractor, an authorised performer. There should be one thing in mind, that planning and building is a very complex business. First, it involves good regulation, and later, a high degree of profession and, of course, it must all be monitored in order to avoid abuse. Most of you, respected colleagues, are well known, may not be specific figures, but surely you know that, I have spoken to several investors in Belgrade, in the interior the price is slightly lower. They say for obtaining a building permit per gross area of 110 euros per square cent beyond the mandatory ones, where you get certain documentation, you have proof that you paid it. Now, there's no need for any specific analysis. Given that one building or one residential building has 3,000 square metres of gross surface and 110 euros, it is approximately 330,000 euros for a building permit for one building, which is not visible. I, with my humble knowledge and sound education, but untrained for stealing and all, do not think that I believe that there is an individual who is allowed to take so much money without being supported by someone, or that someone is not behind him. Even when it's known that the slightly better organized investors end up one year or two calendar years, three buildings, so multiply, and you'll see what that is. No wonder, then, that some are rich and that some have enormous needs, demands, and can provide it for themselves, and some cannot, or one survive. President Vukic did not directly allow what was rich or what was particularly poor...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69929	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is Dragana Kostic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69930	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, MPs, a man can say anything, but the works are what remains behind us and what speaks much more than words. So, Minister, you continue to do the work you do, and Serbian citizens know it in the elections to praise and say who is the right man who does something in Serbia. On behalf of the citizens of the municipality, I would like to thank Sokobanja for the regional road that was reconstructed from Alexinac to Sokobanja. However, some of the shares remained unconstructed. And I'd ask what's been planned for these 5,000 kilometers that have been booked for reconstruction this year? Did the plan also take the regional path of Sokobanja-Književec, i.e. the regional road of Sokobanja-Boljevac? This is very important for the citizens of Sokobinje, since it is a tourist resort and the first thing that tourists resent, it is the coming road to Sokobanja. Another thing I would like to ask you, which is – as long as it has arrived with the production of project documentation for the Rotevac loop on Corridor 10, which is not only the request of Sokoban, but also the request of two other municipalities, which is Bolec and Književec, not only to shorten the path to Sokobanje, but also to shorten the road to the Old Mountain, as one very exclusive tourist destination? The memorandum was signed by three municipalities, including Alexine. They would, in any case, reduce transit through their place and reduce environmental pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69931	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69932	You're right. What remains behind us are results, what measures us in all things are results, and if there is any doubt of any corruption or illegal action of any of us, therefore, that we are sitting here in parliament, whether we are executive power or we are in parliament, it is known how it is done. So institutions should do their job, but we, too, if we have knowledge, are also obliged to inform those institutions. So, I invite everyone who has any knowledge that I'm doing something illegal or possessing something illegal, to invite the competent authorities to respond nicely. I have everything I have, always had, my family has always had and everything has been reported to the agency and what I have and what my family has and what my ex-husband had and what my current partner or his family has and here and abroad, there's been reported to the agency, where it's time to apply. So everything is available, for every thing I have, starts with my clothes and so on. But what you asked, 102 kilometers of road is currently in a huge 5,000-mile-long project that will be rehabilitated. One share is Bolec-Socoobanja-Alexinac, so, 60 kilometers. The second share is Bolec-Književci, 42 kilometers. So, the obligation of Serbia's Roads to what we have now is that this year they do the documentation, and that next year, or if it's possible to start work early, although our assessment is that before 2021 it's not possible to start work on these shares, not just on this one, but on most of the shares that are from these 5,000km of roads. That's the answer to your first question. The answer to your second question, the Serbian Corridors are an investor and they, as far as I know, have already contacted the presidents of the municipalities and are working on it. And what I expect to get may be more detailed information, so we'll send through our response to you exactly when this loop is expected to be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69933	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 38th amendment. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That there is corruption in this area of construction best shows an example of non-compliance with legal regulations. I'd like to take one case out of South Banat, i.e. from Kovin. There is a decision by the congregation of the municipality, or Kovin municipality, in which it is regulated that the construction of industrial buildings in inhabited areas is prohibited, and that is precisely what species. However, a businessman, named Nedeljkov Đura, built in the middle of the city of the town of Deliblat of silos with hundreds of grain wagons, where he processes and lagers and delivers and droughts and thus endangers the lives and health of the people of Deliblat, even because the neighbors are directly neighbors to these facilities. But who's responsible for that? The Ministry has been informed of this. First of all, contrary to the spatial plan and the urban plan, Nedeljkov Djura from the Dublin built facilities dangerous to the health and life of citizens. The Mirjanic Lazara family of the Dublin suffers severe consequences, the whole family suffers, the cows die, and is forced to liquidate their cows, i.e. to sell them because there are no conditions that they can be successfully supported and used to produce milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69935	Thank you, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69936	Let me just point out. The head of the municipal administration has made a decision on the issue of a building permit contrary to the decision of its municipality. Now you can imagine what was decisive about it. The decision was corruption and bribery, and in no case can we be satisfied. There's a lot of crime at your place in the area of construction. Take what I said when it comes to that wild west, that beautiful mountain of Zlatibor, you saw what's there, it's chaos, it's terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69937	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Olivera Pesic reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69938	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Law on Planning and Construction, it is important to say that the number of building permits issued was around 7.5 000 in 2012, 2013 and 2014. In 2015, the number has increased to 10.5 thousand, and since 01 January 2016, since the united procedure starts, these data seem to be quite different. So in 2016 we had over 12.5 thousand building permits issued, in 2017 over 18.5 thousand building permits, in 2018 over 19,000 building permits were issued and in 2019 we had close to 22 thousand building permits issued. So, since the introduction of the united procedure, in just three years, from 2016 to 2019, the same number of building permits has been issued, as it was in the previous nine years. So from 2007 to 2015, these are actually the results and effects of the law that we are discussing today. As far as the number of construction sites in Serbia is concerned, more than 53,000 construction sites are currently open and this is proof that Serbia is today a major construction site. The value of works carried out in 2019 is estimated at around 3.3 billion euros, and the comparisons work, which is twice as much as in 2013 when the value of works carried out was around 1.6 billion. Also, this data is about the results and effects of this law. Construction is the main driver of GDP growth in 2018, and the share of construction in GDP increased from 3.2% in 2014 to nearly 5% in 2019. The growth rate of construction was 13.4% in 2018, and in 2019 it was over 27%. So these are all the effects and results of this law that we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69939	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69940	Thank you for once again finding that out, based on facts and data, and not based on some stories that Serbia today looks different. When we talk about issuing construction permits and we should never forget that in 2014 we were really 186 in the world and no one alive wanted to invest in Serbia, precisely because the building permit waited for years and because it... If it was once corruption to issue building permits, it was then, until the period until the building permits began to be issued electronically. So you can't see anyone watching your case, holding it in a drawer, betraying yourself electronically, therefore, and the location conditions and building permits. In this sense, the issue of building permits cannot be said to have corruption. It is no accident that Serbia is the ninth in the world to issue construction permits because the process in Serbia is the most transparent compared to this earlier period. If that were the case, and that's the result, you said yourself, it is the number of the site. It was a thinking noun to talk about, that in 2014, we have 50,000 construction sites, everyone said it was impossible. We have 53,000 construction sites today in Serbia, and that is also being electronically monitored. So, not that someone was going now, so he talked to the municipalities about how many construction sites we have, but he's being electronically monitored, when there's a work report, where the construction sites are open. That's what I think is very important in this part if we want to talk about new investments and some better economic environment. Everything called, I repeat once again, any kind of corruption or illegal action, each of us is obliged to report this kind of corruption to the competent state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69941	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69942	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39. The ministry, headed by the minister, proposed to the 39th amendment of Article 159 of the basic law. It is proposed to add item 6 after the existing attitude of 5., which reads: “Extremely from the position of 5. of this member, in the event that, in accordance with the law governing housing, a housing community is established for residential, i.e. residential and business buildings, i.e. an association, a request for the authorisation of use can only be submitted by the community or association. “ From the 6th to the 13th centuries so far, it has become from 7th to 14. Furthermore, it is suggested that in the present attitude 14, which becomes the attitude of the 15th word, "a solution on home numbers and" is deleted. Article 15 is replaced by the following: ‘The embossed geodetic works shall be submitted to the authority responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and the catastra before the authorisation is granted. “ This promoter also wants to enable the living community, or association, to apply for a valid permit, and we have proposed to delete this member with this amendment. Our amendment expresses our principled view of the bill, which, whose minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, and the bill is such that it cannot fix the existing law. The only thing that could be done right is to accept this and all the other amendments submitted by the SRS to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69943	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69944	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, answered for the reason I received a large number of calls from the citizens of Prokuplje and Toplice, and the topic we discussed was precisely "the highway of peace", as some call it, and I would call it "the highway of life" for the citizens of Toplice and Prokuplja. What citizens want to hear is whether the start of work on this highway fits the dynamics that are planned. It's something that's very important to us and that as a MP, I have to pass on to the citizens of Prokupil. Another thing that is also very important, since we have seen a full profile of the highway from Merošina, the rasva, those intersections to Merošina, and then the semi-profile to Prokuplje, or Beoljin, I wonder if it will be possible to do a full profile if it is determined by analysis and studies to pass a sufficient number of cars along that route? It's something that's very important. What I would point out is that Prokuplje, unfortunately, is perhaps the only city in Serbia that passes through the only highway to Kursumlia, or Pristina. I'm saying this because this huge freight traffic is causing us big problems, and not only is traffic being difficult, but also the number of accidents, but you already know it better based on studies and analysis, it's certainly increased. Also, I have to say that on that track, where there's a highway now, it's the center of the city of Prokuplja, there's a large number of children, small children. There goes a daily large number of freight trucks and all that, not only to disrupt the continuity and structure of the car, but to endanger comfort and life, I would say, the population. I think what needs to be done is one perspective, it's life for the town of Prokuplje itself for the reason that the tour around Prokuplje will be a relief, not just for traffic, but for the people, for a normal life and functioning in the city. Also, what's very important and what I'd like to say to all those that I tell the opponents of this route is that their message and their alternative to the goat track. So, the people of Toplice, the citizens of Prokuplja, eagerly await the start of the works of this highway. I know the expropriation's started, but I'm interested -- as far as we're concerned, I'm curious about when the official work on this route will start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69945	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69946	Both the president of Serbia and the Serbian government and the ministry that I see, we are also aware of and how important every highway that is being built is and we didn't accidentally finish as fast as we could and Corridor 10 and the parts of Corridor 11. Just remember, for example, in 2014, did anyone believe that a few years later, we would go from Belgrade to Cačka on the highway? I really don't think most people believed it, but we did it. And in that sense we were, or began, both the Moravia Corridor and so the documentation for Nis-Pločnik, i.e. Nis-Medare-Pristina, highway. And, of course, there were a lot of those who were against it. One of them is not of course in this House, some of them are, so those outside like Jeremic and others have said that we are traitors, as well as here what they tell us about the Moravia Corridor, but the point is that without the construction of new highways, people would lose their connection and would certainly move further out of these areas. So, I'm also talking about the Moravia Corridor, but also about Nis-Medare-Pristina. So the first share, 38 kilometers, Nis-Pločnik, is to start building, so let's see physical construction in the third quarter of this year. The government of the Republic of Serbia was defined last year, already provided funding for the first share. This funding for the start is 200m euros, 100m is a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and another 100m is from the European Investment Bank. We've already signed one contract, and we'll sign another contract with the IBRD this year. So, the work must be going, and now it's no longer a question of whether it's going to be done or not. It will. When you ask for a semi-profile, the studies have shown, because essentially the study in parts of Serbia, where, of course, we now have very little traffic intensity, which is clear and natural because we know what the quality of the roads is, shows, of course, a much longer period of time how much it takes to make this trip really worth it. That's why we started in that one part with a semi-profile, which doesn't mean, but that's why tunnels are made for a full profile, which doesn't mean that in the period behind that when the works start, when at least the first part is made, not based on further analysis, we're going to think about it being a full profile. The most important thing is that in a few years, we'll have the first share of Nis-Pločnik done. That means a lot to our people down there. So all those who are against are primarily their own people, which I think is really scary. One more thing, we were looking here when you called. There are two times that will also be done from the project "Five thousand kilometers of roads". One is Prokuplje-Ribarska Banja, 31 kilometers, and the other is Prokuplje-Beloljin-Kurchumli, 30 kilometers. The rehabilitation of one of these two times should begin something at the end of the third quarter of this year, in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69947	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you are all mouth and mouth, and in every place you praise how your ministry has done much and that it is exclusively or to the greatest extent your merit. Since this is about the Law on Planning and Construction, let me ask you a specific question. In fact, it is the following – we know that Serbia, unfortunately, is largely wasteful in terms of population, especially in its eastern part, eastern and southeastern Serbia. Our villages are completely empty. There are many settlements where no resident lives, which is one of Serbia's largest territories, the territorial majority of Serbia, and also, naturally, one of the most beautiful parts of Serbia. Did your ministry think about it, even if it did make a proposal to the government that you belong to, say, on the territory of the Old Mountain or possibly the Dry Mountains, or in some other part where there is not enough population to build a small town, a mini settlement completely new and it is absolutely legitimate and there have been many such examples in many countries. We see Orban planning something like that. In Tsar Russia, a new city was built annually, and a new town was also built in pre-war Serbia in the Soviet Union, and in the former Yugoslavia, a new city and the Kingdom of Serbia were built in pre-war Serbia, and such a settlement would have a strategic significance for the region and for the whole state of Serbia, where it would be self-sustainable in the sense that biological food, healthy food is being produced there. We have natural beauty, tourism and everything. So, were you thinking that way?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69949	Thank you, Professor. I'll bend. According to the amendment, Snow White has Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69950	I thank the chairman. Madam Vice-Presidents and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in charge of infrastructure, I will refer to my colleague on this discussion. We welcome all infrastructure projects on road construction in our country. Why? The roads are like the human bloodstream. If the bloodstream is good and functional first with those vital bloodways, and then with the smaller bloodways, then the organism lives. Unless we have a good bloodstream, the organism is extinct. In terms of Serbia, we need highways, we need corridors, we need to be well tied, we need to move fast. This network of good roads is actually a link for many other sectors and their further development and progress and our overall economic progress and development, for new investors, for new factories, new jobs and there is no dilemma. We welcome this, too, as a PUPS parliamentary group and as chairman of the Committee on Economy, we support it and these are good results, and that is what the President is talking about, our Government is talking about. This, I hope, will be a very quick assessment in the next election, but I must tell you that Serbia is a country of villages, that we have 4,700 villages, that many die. We find it particularly difficult in those border areas, rural mountainous areas where many people have left, and the older population in very difficult conditions brings its life to an end, i.e. living hard. Please, the president has announced that infrastructure projects and one serious number in the coming years will do everything to make Serbia more infrastructure, connect and I ask you not to neglect our villages, that in villages our people can live decently by having roads, by having cooperatives, by having schools, kindergartens and all the necessary infrastructure that is necessary for young and younger people who are still in the country to continue living normally. We give full support to all of your activities, but please pay particular attention to these rural mountainous areas, border areas, especially in my case, sub-communication area where I grew up, which is very important for our tourism, where, for example, from the village of Blažev towards Kursumlia, there is one way, but there is also an opportunity for another alternative road across the village, such as Sudimlja and Babica. You don't need that big investment, even where you make roads, where you make new corridors, that reef old asphalt is enough to make good alternatives here. I deeply believe in your pragmatism, entrepreneurship and ability, and I believe that you will do everything possible to live Serbian villages, because the country of Serbia is a country of Serbian peasants who built and defended and ward it and today it is such a time that we have to make that right to return from the cities to the villages, to revive these villages and to stay as a strong agricultural country. I know it's not just your task, that it's a task and many other ministers, but you also know that apart from what you're doing, our president, or the minister without the portfolio, Mr Krkobic, that's what the Minister of Agriculture does, and we need it, and we need that synergy. We need to protect our Serbia in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69951	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69952	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. With this amendment of mine, I asked that this member, as well as the other members of the law, be deleted. The position of the SRS is that the implementation of such a law is inconclusive, although it is clear that this area is subject to corruption, corrupt actions, and now some of them need to be legally legalised. For nothing, you Mrs. Mihajlovic boast that Serbia has made significant progress in this area. The reality on the ground is different. Let's put aside the highways now, and nobody wants to slow it down, see what happens to those things that directly haunt our citizens. A huge number of Serbian families still lack the communal conditions of a contemporary man. That's what you need to take care of. How many times from this place does the SRS have to repeat to you that this law is causing enormous damage to our citizens? That's why it's best for everyone to withdraw this law from the procedure, suggest a brand-new one that will take into account all these remarks that we make here. These are not our personal objections, these are the objections of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69953	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you are, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69954	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates have been discussing the draft law on construction planning, but also on many other results, but also on issues and proposals related to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure. We've got other suggestions ahead of us. I would remind only at this point that in this term on the agenda we already had a draft law on special conditions for the implementation of projects, the construction of apartments for security forces and adopted it, and thus helped to start building such apartments in Nis as soon as possible. Then we talked about 188 apartments, I would like to say that they are being built on a site where there used to be a “Stevan Sijedić” barracks, which is about three kilometers away from the city center itself and is practically a narrow center on which the Science and Technology Park is being built, whose opening this year is. So in seven Serbian cities, about 8,000 square meters will be built, apartments for security forces. Construction in Nis and Vranj began first, but there are Kraljevo, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Sremska Mitrovica. In addition to everything I mentioned, I would also like to mention building apartments for refugees in Nis in the village "Branko Begovic", which are in the final phase. Furthermore, in the "Novi Nis" village, apartments taken over by the city are to be handed over to the military after enrollment, which is only the first tranche of apartments in the same location where "Novi Nis" is located, is in the final phase and second tranche of apartments and is expected to be handed over by the city and by registration. So we expect it to be very successful in 2020 for the Nišli, because it will be marked by the realisation of the big projects that we could only dream of by 2012, when the SNS took over, In this, your Ministry of Serbia, the Government of Serbia, has helped us greatly not to talk about how much the President of the Republic announced, how many things he announced and whatever promise he made for southern Serbia, this promise has been fulfilled both on his part and on the part of the Serbian government. Nis became a major construction site, and I hope it stays that way in the future. We are fed up with the government of the Democratic Party and similar to them in Nis. Only if we compare the period until 2012 and after 2012, can we remember that nothing was much different than in the republic, the budget was ripped apart. Today in the city of Nis, we have a stable budget. The factories shut down and sold into debauchery and privatized. Today we have six new factories, the jobs were shut down, now we have thousands of new jobs where the Nishi can work. Not to mention that by 2012, there were zero projects, there are now many projects that have been implemented in co-operation between local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's something that really serves all the citizens of Nisa pride. One more thing about the location for building apartments for security forces, I mentioned the “Stevan Sidelic” barracks, and I want to say that this part of 1999 was unfeelingly bombed daily. In fact, the whole Nis was unwittingly bombed in 1999. On that plot that was then bombed, flats are now being built. Do you know what the situation was like by 2012? In 1999, if the situation did not deceive me, the mayor was Zoran Zivkovic and then no one could get anything from the people who were killed in the bombing unless they were DS members or supporters of this policy that he was representing in the city at the time. Today is a completely different situation, today apartments are being built, regardless of party membership, regardless of other belongings, but for all Serbian citizens that they can buy them and that they can solve housing issues for themselves and their families. I won't answer again. I have presented enough examples from Nis today and enough examples of how our local self-government is working well with your ministry and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to keep it that way. I wish you every success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69955	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69956	Thank you for all you've done because it also says that some laws should suffer certain changes because these changes bring good things in what we do. After all, all these results made by the Serbian government have been made precisely thanks to the legislative framework that we have brought here, i.e. we have adopted certain amendments to the laws we have made. Of course, there are those who are also outside this Assembly, who are against it or against any change in this country, that they may wonder, who knows where they would be, as there are here in parliament those who are against any change of laws, because they also want to stop us and return us to some time ago. Here's an example, you mentioned the apartments we're building for the security forces. For example, if we hadn't changed the law last time, we wouldn't have allowed fighters or families of fallen fighters to buy those apartments too. Therefore, the laws and it is perfectly normal and natural to endure certain changes in order to make better results and to enable all to have certain opportunities under the laws that we make. About the apartments, too, what we announced at the beginning two days ago, is that there will be new tenders, both in the city of Belgrade and in other cities to continue this first part of the building of apartments, for security forces. It'll certainly be done by the end of April. There is still a great initiative, and we hope for a positive answer that the possibility for these apartments is obtained by healthcare professionals, teachers, and perhaps other workers in other businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69957	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, such a proposed law on planning and construction is not possible to fix any changes and additions, because if the proposed laws change every six to eight months, then this raises suspicion that these laws are made exclusively by the dictatorship of stakeholders, both domestic and foreign. As we have said on several occasions, Serbian radicals say, it is that roads are being made, railway traffic is being restored, Serbia is developing evenly, which is unfortunately not so, because Mrs. Ministers if you were to go a little more in Serbia and a little less in shopping or in the styleists, you would see that the roads are not just a problem. The bigger problem with these paths is that young people have gone these ways. And the better our paths are, the less people go these ways, and even though they're going, they're only going one way. Unfortunately, that's what they're forced to do, because where life stopped, where there's no foreign investment, where there's no highway, where there's no new jobs going for a better life, looking for a job to feed their families. The only solution they need is the West, because the other ones don't see when it comes to existence and struggle for life. As responsible people, you must not allow a city of 35 to 40,000 to disappear annually. In your opening statement, Madam Minister, you boasted that 350km of highway was done, 300km of rail traffic, which is good, that you did the detours. Okay, here, I commend you for bypassing one part of Serbia and that southwest part of Serbia, where you bypassed Nova Varosh, where you bypassed Prepolje, where you bypassed Priboj both with the highway and with invested investments and with open jobs. And by who knows what time I'm going to do this again, that you, like the Government of the Republic of Serbia, consider Serbia to be the Zlatibor. Unfortunately, as far as evenly regional development is concerned, it is only on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69959	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69960	Thank you, Chairman, for the opportunity to speak again. We from the SNS, and we from the SNS, today as we defend the Law on Planning and Construction, are merely facts, i.e. the results of the work and the effects of the law that is in place. I must once again say, for the sake of Serbian citizens, that Serbia is ninth in the world after issuing construction permits. This is what I think is very important, and that is what we SNS MPs say, nor is it here today the legislator of this law, that is data, that is, Serbia is in ninth place today on the Doing Business List of the World Bank, it is a huge success and success that all of us MPs today and all of Serbia's citizens should celebrate. Why is that? Here are the official data on the average time of issue of electronic acts in a united procedure. Therefore, the average time of issue expressed in working days for location conditions of 19.3 days for construction permits of 9.8 days for the use of authorisation 9.9 days. So that's all the results, that's the effects of this law that's being applied. The number of building permits issued since 2010 has increased by 200% compared to 2018. Again, in 2019, compared to 2018, the number of building permits issued increased by close to 12%. And we in the SNS firmly believe that this trend in the growth of the issue of construction permits will continue in 2020 and in this respect we support all changes and additions that will allow this Law on Planning and Construction to be even more quality and that even better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69961	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Professor Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69962	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again, I would like to refer to the practice of adapting and harmonising our regulations with EU regulations. Are we able to arrange our country to the extent of citizens living in it or do we have to agree and adapt to the legislation of others? Here I think of our premature Europeans, among whom the Prime Minister is present today. The question is, how much in practice do we recognize this kind of serviality when you know that there is nothing from EU membership. I would say here today, my colleagues, Slavica Zivkovic and Neđo Jovanovic, spoke about the engineering chambers, and reminded me that the engineering chambers were deprived of the right to issue licenses. This right is entrusted to a ministry that does not own a professional chamber, and engineering chambers are reduced to ordinary associations of citizens. I have personally spoken to many people in this area and all of them agree that the previous solution was better and that it was a mistake. If the problems were some individuals in the engineering chambers, who made their own decisions, it could have been resolved personally. We in the SRS believe that any solution that is in the interest of our citizens is acceptable, and we are against each of those imposed, especially if it comes from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69963	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. Slavica Zivkovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69964	Thank you, Chairman. I will speak according to the previous amendment, because my discussion is mentioned about the engineering chamber. It's not an engineering chamber reduced to the level of the association. I have also reiterated today that the engineering chamber has been performing an expert part of the expert exam, that the commissions working in the engineering chamber and before which a string exam is being passed have been functioning for decades and that this is being done at the highest possible level, and that no time in that section has the work of the engineering chamber been questioned. There have been some difficulties in working in the previous years of 2017, 2018, and of course made one serious problem in construction that we had a situation that we had lost tenders because we had no licensed engineers who could sign certain projects. Since a particular problem existed in the chamber, not to enter the nature of the problem, the Ministry of Civil Engineering sought to intervene and overcome the problem, could not be solved. The only way was for the Ministry of Civil Engineering to assume the obligation to issue licences, and other functions, as the Minister said, when conditions are met, they will return to the engineering chamber if they justify that trust and if conditions for that type of business are obtained in the next period, i.e. supplemental jobs that the engineering chamber will be working on. So this is not the ultimate solution, and this is not some EU-reputable measure, and unfortunately it was the only possible solution. Perhaps at that moment extorted, but the only possible solution that could provide a smooth work of construction and even a smooth issue of construction permits so that construction sites could work in the next period and that jobs could be done uninterrupted, and you will agree without any license that is not possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69965	Thank you, Mrs. Zivkovic. Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69966	Dear Slavica, thank you for understanding and for being once again, in fact for who knows which time, explained why some of the measures had to be implemented in the engineering chamber itself, which for us is very important, but we must be completely honest and say that it was almost private ownership of DS and the minister responsible for Serbia being the last to issue building permits, it was Dragoslav Šumarac. The total stasis was, she was literally a private engineering chamber and everyone suffered in that engineering chamber, and engineers, but above all the state suffered. Of course, those who advocate to be again in that engineering chamber, who think it's very good, are already talking more about themselves, but the fact that we, by amending and supplementing this law very quickly in front of us, will return everything that is practically the work of the engineering chamber and which is essentially what it needs to deal with, as well as what we have talked about several times besides permanent improvement, is very important, you yourself mentioned young engineers and a special project and part of the engineering chamber must deal with it. Anything else that other actions are illegal, it's known how it's being solved. I've also heard some mentions of mountains and problems in some mountains, as well as how it's done. Where there's illegal business or illegal work or paid building permits, if there really is, then charges are filed. The Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure filed a criminal report three years ago for organised crime against both President Chajetina and the same group of people who were engaged in illegal, illegal activities. So there are institutions for such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69967	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The right to replica has Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69968	Mrs. Zivkovic, I said that you spoke nicely today on the subject of engineering chambers and I never once said what I said, that they were today, that they were deprived of the right to issue licences, reduced to the association of citizens. That's mine, because the ministry doesn't own personnel who can carry out this professional work. So, I said they were down, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69969	Thank you, colleague Boyich. The word is Slavica Zivkovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69970	Dear Professor. I'll be afraid to fully understand in the discussion, but what I want to do again, you're talking about an expert staff who is obliged to carry out the procedure. I'm saying that the expert exam is still being passed in the Engineering Chamber. This involves professional training and the involvement of experts from both the university and the practice and I spoke about who are members of this expert staff. The other procedure, therefore, is only one of the conditions, obtaining the conditions that you passed the expert exam is one of the conditions that you can file for a licence to the Ministry. the application for a licence shall include a number of specific activities and conditions to be met by each engineer. On the site of the Ministry there is a clearly prescribed procedure for what it is necessary for you to in addition to this expert examination, i.e. Confirmation of a professional examination, submit to the Ministry. That process works well. It was said, of course, that the work of the Engineering Chamber was done in the previous period, and we all agree that maybe it's best that this job should be done completely. As Mrs. Minister said, these jobs will be returned to the Engineering Chamber, but they probably haven't gotten the conditions for such a thing yet, and it will, I'm sure, already some of the jobs in the meantime have been returned to the Engineering Chamber, not what it was in the previous period, but surely, in time we will come to the situation that these jobs return completely. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69971	Thank you, Mrs. Zivkovic. Professor Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69972	Mrs. Zivkovic, I hope we understand each other, I didn't want to do this, I wanted to apostrophe the difference in expertise between the people who are at the Ministry and who are doing this job today and the people in the Engineering Chamber who have been issuing licenses until then.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69973	Thank you. After the amendment, Zarko Bogatinovic reported. Mr. Bogatinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69974	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with associates, I would like to refer to my colleague, Zaric Kovacevic,'s brief discussion. I would like to point out that the Centre for the Ministry of Defence for the Local Self-Government of Leskovac has been named three times in a row as the best in the framework of the Regional Centre of the Ministry of Defence of Nis. This was demonstrated when the evaluation was given, the alignment of the plans to defend local self-government with the Defence Plan of the Republic of Serbia. Also, co-operation of the Ministry of Defence Centre for Local Self-Government Leskovac with City of Leskovec's Office and the cabinets of all the presidents of the Jablanic District's municipalities is very active and effective. This is seen in a large number of candidates for voluntary military service with weapons. I feel free to say that the number in the city of Leskovac is the largest in Serbia. In this context, I welcome the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces, and I would like to underline to this effect that the City of Leskovac needs to build apartments for members of the security forces that would be bought under favourable conditions. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure provided information based on conducted surveys by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior on the territory of the town of Leskovec. The information has the following character, among the members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army on the territory of the town of Leskovec 128 is without any residential facility and 53 with inadequate housing facilities, a total of 181 members of the security forces with unresolved housing conditions. Among the members of the interior ministry, 373 members agree on the purchase of apartments under favourable conditions, with 149 without a settled housing issue. The town of Leskovac is ready to enter the project of building apartments and owns this moment two locations ready for construction, one of which is communally equipped. For both locations there is a plan documentation, so it is possible to issue location conditions and building permits. Dear Minister, I want to succeed in implementing this project to local self-government where it has already started, but also, at this time, I want to ask you when will this happen in Leskovac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69975	The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 44th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 44. The law on planning and construction is fully in line with the EU recommendations and as with previous amendments, and this proposes erasure. The reason is the same, and we pointed out that the shift and improvement in the area of construction, which is of paramount importance, will not be, that these proposed solutions will by no means contribute to the improvement of the law. As a major problem that is very slow to solve, it is certainly legalisation of the facilities and in the Municipality of Chukarica from which I come there are over 20,000 submitted legalisation requirements, i.e. unresolved cases, while in the Municipality of Grocka, i.e. in the Gročan settlement of Kaludjerica, 35,000 households have an unresolved problem of sewage. Don't tell us that legalization today is not on the agenda, that it's a completely different law, because we know that, but we expect certain answers from you as a resolute minister. It is true that the issue of building permits and legalization is at the level of local self-government, but do you have any insight into how many pending cases there are, and does the Ministry have any control over them at all? Do you have any idea how long this job's gonna end? What is worrying is certainly corruption that is present in this area, because local officials take money, or have their tariffs when it comes to legalization. As you can see, wherever the problem is to solve the Ministry of Civil Engineering, that is, all those areas for which Zorana Mihajlovic is in charge, lies serious corruption, and we are free to say crime, which is certainly devastating for the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69977	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69978	Thank you, Chairman. I had some information I wanted to share with you and the citizens, and they were dealing with the previous amendment, so I'm going to use the time to say something about licenses and data related to it. By the entry into force of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, 6 November 2018, the licensing of a responsible designer, responsible urbanist, responsible spatial planner and responsible contractor, has passed, as we know, into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. Since assuming jurisdiction and issuing personal licences until 17 January 2020, the Ministry has submitted 1.523 requests for the issue of personal licences for 13 professional areas. A solution has been made on the education of expert licensing commissions in professional areas, and on 14 April 2019 the change of the solution was made. The work of expert commissions has been organised since half of December 2018, with 98 sessions held so far, expert commissions for 13 professional areas. The number of requests for solutions is 1.197. The submission of the licence applications shall be regularly organised on a weekly basis by expert committees, so that all requests to be made for review by committees in the areas of expertise, according to the order of the meeting and in agreement with the members of the Commission. As regards large licences, in 2018, an emergency licence check was carried out for 101 economic operators, issued from 2009 to 2015, 14 were found to remain in force and 32 were issued with new solutions, and 54 economic operators no longer fulfil the conditions for the construction of technical documentation and the construction of facilities for which the construction permit was issued by the Ministry. From January 2018 to January 2020, 339 requests were submitted to the Ministry of Construction. A total of 25 sessions of the Commission were held. The number of requests for which the solutions have been adopted shall be 320. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69979	Thank you, Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69980	The duty of the MP obliges me to remind the public of a true detail in the political career, or ministerial career of Zorana Mihajlovic. The point is that Zorana Mihajlovic spent about a million and a half dinars from the ministry's personal spending card in 2015. So it can't be called stealing, it can't be called stealing. She allegedly returned the money later, or one part returned immediately, and only when the theft was made public was then reportedly returned another 895,951 dinar. The question to which no one has ever received the answer is – how could it happen that without any consequences the minister spends a million and a half dinars from the budget from the Ministry's card? Another question that no one has ever answered is – would Zorana Mihajlovic ever return that money if the information had not come out that the money had been kidnapped? The third question to which no one has ever answered is – how can one easily repay almost a million dinars, i.e. 895,951 dinars in 2015? And you're wondering why Zorana Mihajlovic, in public, is suspected of criminal acts, of malfeasance. Please hold a little longer, hold a little longer, she just showed a transparent – a radical lie. Hold on a little while longer for Vukic to see, because Vukic said at the 2015 conference that you returned these 895.951 dinars. (President: Get back on topic. ) Please, I support that she shows it, that Wolf sees well that she just said - a radical lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69981	There's a wolf in the Drava, a colleague of Radeta's. He's doing an important job for our country. You're talking about some underwear, so please don't be serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69982	Vukic, I want a pleasant stay in Drvar, for Serbs in Drvar as much investment as possible from Serbia. I want the Serbs in the Drvar to join Republika Srpska as soon as possible. I want Serbs in Drvar, as well as all Serbs on Republika Srpska's territory, to get the conditions for Serbs to return to the Serbian Krajina as soon as possible. None of you want more than we do. This much maybe, but more than us. Let it go now. The Wolf is in the Tree, so I can't say that Zorana said that the Wolf told a radical lie. It wasn't me, it was her. As for us, Wolfie, when he says something from radical times, we say all the honor, here he comes back to the roots. And going to the Tree means his return to the roots and that's why it's nice. As for this law and the behaviour of today's Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, I must indeed, here at the very end, when it comes to this law, say that this incident that has caused or made it better to say Zorana Mihajlovic, is an increase in parliamentaryism in Serbia. We've been painting for nothing. All these decades in the process of building parliamentaryism, she is today, Zorana Mihajlovic defeated today, not SRS MPs, not, the entire National Assembly, all vice presidents. Guys, you three vice presidents were never allowed to... At one point, Arsic gave her a warning, no one was allowed to tell her to put away that transparency, or do not speak to the MPs, do not insult the MPs. None of you should have said that. You know why you shouldn't have? Because we're right when we say that she's a spy and that someone who put her in government is holding her so tight that she can make fun of all of you. She didn't listen to the boss either. I'm done, please. I've got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69983	You're out of time. You've used your time. (The Faith of Radeta: How do I not have one?) I'll check again, but you've definitely wasted your time. (Verica Radet: I have time for the head of the parliamentary group, I have 12 minutes. I'm just asking the service to deliver that information to me. I'll take a minute, just to check your time. [[After a break.]] Go ahead. You have time. Excuse me. Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69985	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. I really thought that you believed that I was a serious MP and that I would never lie that I had more time if I didn't. It's not nice, but good. (President: To me, only the display was wrong. Excuse me. Everything's fine, we won't argue for about 12 minutes. You two are gonna hand it to me, and everything's fine. So, Zorana Mihajlović, and with this sentence, I will finish this address, defeat all of you. Maja Gojkovic is a smart woman, I'm not saying that you, the three of you sitting there, did not want to come here to expose what once happened to her when Zorana Mihajlovic, also unrecorded in parliamentaryism in the microphone Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, told the lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69986	The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69987	Thank you. I would like to say something about the ministry's success, Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates. First of all, I'd like to say that the Ipsylon arm of Corridor 10 that we've been waiting for for 30 years is finished. The foot was built 25 kilometers of highway. With that leg, we're going to the border with Hungary, we've reduced the crowds on Horgos, we've been waiting for hours on holiday and during the summer. The "Ipsylon" arm, it is a bypass around Subotica that connects the crossing of Kelebi to the Horgos highway – Novi Sad – Belgrade. It is a great relief for all passengers and for the Subotians who have suffered the passing of freight and transit traffic through the city itself. On a daily basis, about 300 peddlers passed through the city, as one colleague said, where the children passed, many walking crossings. Freight traffic has been moved from the city itself. 2.8 million dinars were invested in this conclusion. This was done during the ministry of Ms. Mihajlovic. It was built by our company "Vojput". Another significant investment venture announced for the construction of a fast traffic station Sombor - Kula - Becej - Novo Milosevic - Kikinda is on the map. Ms. Mihajlovic signed a contract as part of a delegation in China for the construction of the Novi Sad – Subotica, or Belgrade – Budapest, and from Novi Sad to Sudotica, one-third of the fast track section. One third of the stock, I think they're building Russian companies and two towns of the Chinese company. That part of the stock will be financed from a new investment cycle of infrastructure. The track is about 101.2 km long and will have 49 underpasses and overpasses and similar facilities on it. I would just like to ask Mrs. Mihajlović how far did this share of Čortanovci, i.e. from Stara Paza to Novi Sad, and when will this share begin to work from Novi Sad to Sudotica? I'd just like to say that we need to reconstruct the railroad from Subotica to Senta, or maybe it's been reconstructed already? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69988	Thank you, Mrs. Repac. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69989	Thank you for the questions you asked and thank you for seeing what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure did in the previous period. Because, you know, there were some other traffic and construction ministers, but then we were the last in the world to issue construction permits, or those ministers opened five times a construction site and never finished them. But we're done. You know, there were a lot of people who lied to this people and didn't do anything and leave it behind. Some of them are sitting in parliament today. But we are you and our obligation was to finish everything we can, as fast as we can. You asked for a quick line from Belgrade-Budapest. Belgrade-Novi Sad, on a fast train 200km per hour, Serbia will head for autumn 2021. Everything done on both sections, Belgrade-Stara Pazova, Stara Pazova-Novi Sad, goes according to the dynamics agreed. So it can't happen anymore that we say in the fall of 2021 -- well, it's not over. So, in the autumn of 2021, from Belgrade to Novi Sad will take the fast train. And by that we are different from many who are both outside Parliament and in parliament. So we're not lying. We speak what is true and show each day in action, with every mile of the road and the tracks that we finish. Share from Novi Sad to the border with Hungary, construction works will physically begin in March this year, so in 2020. It takes a minimum of three years for that share to be completed. The moment Serbia has fully, from Belgrade to the border with Hungary, so, when the third section is completed, the Hungarian side will end its share in the same period. We will begin again in 2021 and down to the south section from Belgrade to Nis. So, as the roads end, so does the basic corridors, and that's what people see, regardless of all the lies and slanders we can hear about those who do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69990	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69991	One flash question for you, Mr. Marinkovic. You know the answer, but here, for the distinguished professor Mr. Atlagic - what is the connection of Zorana Mihajlović, Marko Čadež, Jova Bakic, Marko Blagojevic, there are many more? The answer to that question is very simple -- they are all members of an extended trilateral arm in Serbia, so-called. "The East Bridge Group" and by the recognition of the group's president himself, when Zorana Mihajlovic joined that extended arm of trilaterals, she ran away -- I apologized to Professor Atlagic, I forgot to mention this Bojan Kostreš, Cankov -- they ran away because they did not accept that she entered that circuit. And why does it matter? This is important because the law that will be most later said and this American interventionism that Truman further promoted in Congress after World War II is Zorana Mihajlovic and how she skillfully applied, of course, because of the fact that she personally promoted, along with former US Ambassador Kyle Scott, a job for "Bechtel" to build a Moravian Corridor that is 300m euros more expensive than the price that could have been. It's great that you're holding it, but, well, we're not going to recite the check today. And where did you find Prever, besides Shantic, or, say, Jessen and all the other famous poets, and above all the Serb patriots we know much more about than we do. So, Mrs. Mihajlovic, these are all irrefutable facts. Mr. Kovacic, who is the president of this extended trilateral hand, has marked you as such, and not only you but also these numbered characters, and when we say that you are an American spy in Serbia, we have really certain and very good knowledge... (President: Don't, colleague Jovanovic, it really doesn't make sense. I don't know what's shaking you personally? (President: Well, that is the biggest insult you can make to someone in the National Assembly. ) Probably you, Mr Marinkovic, because of your latest selfie with Zoran Mihajlovic and this new, extremely funny, but on the other hand, not to underestimate him, a dangerous character in the form of the new Ambassador of Godfrey in Serbia. These are all the facts we've been pointing to for years. And if that were true, and before, indeed, your hands will hurt when you raise that transparency and you know we're telling the truth, Vukic here has confirmed it in the Serbian Parliament. You were the one who interrupted Mrs. Radet a little while ago. Alexander Vukic, when he was elected prime minister, was a man there, said that when he learned that Zorana Mihajlović was a card, now to demonstrate, to take out my personal, private card... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69992	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. You're out of time. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: What happened to Truman's doctrine? You can discuss it as much as you want, I don't mind, but there's no point in accusing the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister of spying. You know it's the most serious crime and it's not right to do it. It doesn't make sense. I have to protect her in that direction. Of course, I invite all my colleagues to do it, because it's not right for us to do it to each other. All of this, Truman's doctrine, conspiracy theory... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Are you a member? · Global Voices I'm not anybody's member. Maybe it's a woman and a Rosencruiser, I don't know what it is, the Illuminati, but give me some arguments. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69993	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, distinguished citizens, somehow on the eve of this evening, when we discuss amendments to this law, on the eve of this call to the National Assembly, but also on the eve of the mandate of this Serbian government, it may be a time for all of us to gather together the results and see what this government has done in recent years. We've heard about the law and all the government's affairs in today and in previous days a lot of criticism. Most of them were completely unfounded. We've heard some things that may not be like this respectable home and that in no way do not affect everything that was done in government and what would be done. But rest assured, a respected minister, all those things that may not be suitable for a day like this, will be forgotten and time will cover them. What will remain forever are the results, miles, or hundreds of miles of roads, hundreds of miles of railroads, thousands of construction sites. And the fact that Serbia has seriously stepped up in previous years, as our people say metaphorically. The fact that Serbia is a country where building permits are easily and quickly acquired, of course, if all the legal conditions and the fact that Serbia is a country of construction are met. That's what's left to remember. But let's be honest, all of this wouldn't mean anything, like any normal house, household, unless you had a plan for the future. You and the president of the state made a serious plan for the future and you fulfilled that part of your job. To be honest with you, when I saw him alone when I saw the size of a job planned to do in the future, so I was at least maybe concerned or maybe a skeptic, like any other citizen. I wasn't afraid or worried that there was no will for these jobs to be done, but I was worried about whether there was a possibility and whether we were able to do such a large and large job. If, like every serious man, I look into the past and compare what are the positions that Serbia started with in 2013, 2014 and where we are today, all these doubts have been removed and it seems to me that it might be easier to do this job that is ahead of us than anything we have done in the previous years. Serbia has not only progressed in previous years. As far as we could, and it seems to me enough, we have helped our people and our people in the environment have made serious progress. As the president of the country said today -- what is this people in an environment without Serbia, and what is Serbia without our people, especially without Republika Srpska? Serious assets are invested in environmental infrastructure. First of all, here I think of the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and these today's events in Drvar and Mrkonjic are just another confirmation of this policy and this definition which was first, I say, promoted by the President of the State of Vukic, but your government was not lagging behind in the realisation of that policy either. Our people say, "What is right and good is God." To be honest, I have to say that I was a witness and that you, as a minister, were involved in serious projects and seriously assisted our people in the environment. I will only remind myself of projects to help educate our community in Mostar, pave the way for many Serbian villages in Mostar, build bridges, and restore them to the Drina. So you have seriously contributed to the realization of this part of the policy. Time and people are the best judges. The court of time has been slow to see. The people will give their court in April, I'm sure, in ways as they did in 2012, only a little bit more convincing. On the other hand, we SNS MPs, if you will, and our people are grateful to you, not because you have done something that is not your job, but that you have done your job and that you have fulfilled the promises you made on the day of this government's election in this honored House, and have shown that you have earned the trust of us Members of the SNS. I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be in the future, and above all, it's going to be about this law that we're discussing now and all these other laws, and the final court will give the people in April of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69994	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69995	Thank you for this honesty that there has been a lot of skepticism whether such a large investment plan of Serbia is possible 20-25 really to realize, but since the results and all that we have done in the past four or five years, then it is quite clear that we can. First, because we have one stable budget, because our deficit is dropping, because we can guarantee big investments for many years and because we have, after all, shown. So we didn't use lies, we didn't use any slanders, we said – we have a problem, in 2014 or 2013 in Serbia was just a promise, and it wasn't working. We sat down, rolled our sleeves and finished the corridors, started some new corridors. Today, we can say freely – that everything we put in place, everything that the president of Serbia has shown the citizens of Serbia that it will be built in the area of the highway, even in the area of infrastructure, it is indeed realized. We're somewhere at the beginning, we're somewhere on an idea project, we're somewhere at the end of the paperwork, and somewhere, we're gonna start working. That's what adorns the SNS and all the people who represent it or are proposed in front of the SNS to lead this country and that's why we're gonna end it. I say once again, we don't use lies, and we're not the ones who don't have results, because those who don't have results and who are behind who's about to go to war, they don't have, they can only slander, we have what we've done, we should be very proud of what we've done. I'm proud.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69996	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 48. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69997	This is about forming a commission that, simply looking at, will assess the expertise, ability and efficiency of graduate engineers. I'm talking about the facts, we don't use lies, delusions, media performances, as it is done by the minister's resolution. The glider, you remember that affair when the expert opinion was that the rink, the damage caused by the project's documentation. What did the Secretary of Resorship do? He accused the engineers, accused the profession. It's one of the greatest defeats, the greatest humiliation of the profession. How did she turn to engineers? They'll be denied a license, a direct threat. How can we now have, or my fellow engineers, how can they trust such a person who has a subjective opinion, acuity, hatred, impatience? Isn't that too much? In addition to all the promises to come out with the truth about the glider in the Gredel ravine, here's how long it's been, it's over, there's no responsible ones. There is. The redesign was designed to save in material. When the CIP and CIP director are charged, the man said – we have nothing to do with it, are you normal, our original documentation has been submitted and it guarantees safety when it comes to the Gredel ravine. These stories - we made highways, so who made the highway to Leskovec, that not the same minister did it, so who did it to Nis, that not the same minister did it, so who did these parts of the highway? They made other furniture. The similarity between Schumartz and his story and what we're hearing right now is so great that a man simply can't believe DOS left the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69998	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u69999	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been said several times today, for me it is indeed the main event of today, that Alexander Vukic is in the Drava today, that he visited the Drvar municipality... Milorad Mircic: Where? In the woodwork. Did you hear that right? In the woodwork. He visited Drvar and Mrkonjic City where the exhibition "Comercial Banks" was opened and where the factory "Jumko" was launched today. It is not the first time that President Vukic Serbia's initiative in a very concrete way helps the Serbian people outside Serbia, whether it is Republika Srpska, whether it is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it is Montenegro, Macedonia or any other country in the region and we will continue to do it even further in the future and we will help our people always and in every place and it is the permanent commitment of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. On the other hand, what I'm about to say is the fundamental difference between Alexander Vukic and SNS and Dragan Gilas and the rest of the Alliance for Serbia. Why do I say that? If anyone wonders where Dragan Djilas is and what he's doing today, there he is in Brussels with that Zelenovic from Capca, there they are in Brussels where they are insinuating their country, where they are lauding their country. This is what it looks like. This is the freshest photo. Here is Gilas, there is Zelenovic, smiling, received by Tanja Fajon, and can be there together to bark and spoil their country, trees and stones to throw at their people and their country. It's interesting where Sergei Trifunović is these days. There he is in Rome, proudly painting himself from the match Roma – Lacio. He likes to watch live games, probably. I don't know what money he's paying the trip from, and that's the fundamental difference between us and them. If anyone is wondering – where does the money for these trips in the white world come from, come on Gilas we know, at least he has money, what's his ticket to Brussels and everything else, accommodation and what's under it, but I'm asking a question – of which money did Zelenović travel to Brussels? Did the entire arrangement be paid by the assembly of the town of Šapca, because unfortunately the citizens of Šapca, still mayor of the city, have paid him a whole trip, for a few months until the election? Milorad Mircic throws out of place. ) Zelenović, you know his name well. No, no, Petrovic's his mentor. It's his teacher, and Zelenovic is the mayor of Sapca. So, in the end, this isn't the first time. This is the sixth or seventh time recently to travel to Strasbourg, Brussels, trees and stones to throw both to the state and the people, but the only happiness in all this is that citizens have the opportunity to see who and how they represent their country's interests abroad. A wolf in the Tree, and they in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70000	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70001	The proposal for this law states that Article 221 is deleted. Madam Minister, one of the five million more famous citizens of Serbia, I thought that you loved your country, somehow it's perfectly normal for every citizen of Serbia to love his country, but if you have such a relationship with those who defended this country at a time when you should and you call them war-scrapers and you recognize some court for your court and for a legal court, and you put and the current president of the state, then you can't explain to me, I can't trust you or all of my fellow MPs who I respect, who are trying to defend you. It's impossible to believe. We have a problem, or the president of this country, Alexander Vukic has a problem because William Walker, who you helped make an extremely high profit, is not directly to him, but as the owner and holder of management rights in that company, you are, and then the question is, who are you really doing it for? There is another question where several investors say and wonder when the legalisation of the facilities will take place? None of these investors are anywhere near a sympathiser, let alone a member of the SRS, I don't want to go in now if people are in other parties, it's a simple and constitutional right and they can be. Why is it waiting for the law of the facilities where the derivative projects are handed over, where all the objections that are listed as being removed, where there are charts on which to know exactly how much tax should be? What are you waiting for? It is likely that the possibility, what I said, is that 110 euros per legalisation, or obtaining a building permit, per one square metre of apartment, is not such or similar situation here either. Then that brings the final customer to pay for everything. Then it brings, if I didn't say, poverty, buy one that has, but it drains a lot of resources that wouldn't have to be spent that way. You said that every relationship has to report knowledge of corruption. That's why we're having this kind of debate. That's what we do. Is that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70002	Thank you, colleague Perich. Adrian Avramov answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70003	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I want to give full support to Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and in particular to build 350km of highways, which brings new investments and job creations. If we have to repeat it 1,500 times, here's another one. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws it out of place. I can't hear you. Answer the word. Dear citizens, without rational budget design and new investments... .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70004	Please allow colleague Avramov to complete his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70005	Without rational planning of budgets and new investments, on which we often work, we cannot improve neither the economy, nor bring investors, create new jobs, nor build apartments for security forces, nor invest in road, rail, air and water transport. So far, we've built over 350 kilometers of highways, as I've already said. We have three international airports, the infrastructure has been significantly improved and the new investment plan "Serbia 2020-2025" envisions the value of investment projects of 14 billion euros. An investment of ninem euros was planned for the infrastructure, in new highways, as well as for the reconstruction of 5,000km of existing roads and railways. Dear citizens, five billion euros will be allocated for road infrastructure, 3.5 billion euros will be allocated for the railway, and what is very important to our citizens, is that the construction of a 1.3 billion-euro subway in Belgrade will be realised. In water traffic, it is planned to provide 275m euros, and when it comes to air traffic, we will provide funding through the budget for further development. I will remind our citizens that as early as May 2010, the then mayor, Mr. Dragan Gilas, promised citizens the construction of the subway. Mr. Gilas, you will remain in history as the mayor who unfortunately made impossible promises, because the subway during your reign, we citizens have never seen. You will remain in the memory of the citizens by wanting to build a dig on the rink, in your day, citizens have asked you to have trash cans, organized garbage drains, sewers, sidewalks on the street. Citizens have asked you to make at least 10km of highways through Serbia, because this would also lead to new investors. Citizens would get close to each other. Belgrade and Serbia were unfortunately dysfunctional in your time, the city was restored, and the state register was completely empty, that as the new government at the time, we had the funds for further work for only 15 days. Which you have not applied to build a large capital project, such as “Biograda na Voda” on my municipality Sava Venac and many other capital projects, construction of highways, development of the economy, but unfortunately, the state register was empty. We know best when we inherited you. You were more likely to be taken from the citizens of 618m euros. Despite our experience as citizens, we really must continue to work and build Serbia's future. Based on the new investment plan, it is planned to build 8,000 apartments, and we have already started building apartments for security forces in Vranj. In the previous year we certainly started building already mentioned apartments, such as Novi Sad, Nis, Kraljevo, Sremska Mitrovica and other cities. What is important is that during construction, at least 80% of materials must be native. We also owe great gratitude to domestic construction companies that are responding to tenders, because they trust our government and believe jobs aren't set up for someone. The budget for 2020 to 2025, i.e. a new investment programme, envisions 14 billion euros from the new investment plan. The implementation of those funds starts as of this current year. We have money to invest in building apartments for young couples, and then we will allocate new funds to finance artificial insemination. Even more to the protection and prevention of children from autism. We are investing an additional 600m euros in healthcare. The plan also includes 16 new hospitals, six new clinics and two new clinical centres. We will continue to allocate funds for education, digitisation, culture and sport. Investments of 200m euros are foreseen for tourism, which means investment in spas, sports centres, mountain ski centres, archaeological sites, because thanks to the decorated city of Belgrade and our Serbia, a significant increase in tourists has been seen in us, which also contributes to the growth of the economy and the creation of new jobs. For sewers and water processing systems, we also allocate a billion euros. For the KIM infrastructure, the investment plan envisions 150m euros and not only for the north of Kosovo, but also south of Ibra for our Serbs. Dear citizens, we are building anywhere we can, with an additional 100m euros to co-operate with Republika Srpska. All of these investments and items that I have singled out are just proof of stable finance, because the situation today is much easier. Some had such an opportunity, so they abused her and filled their pockets. His speech would have ended with the conclusion that it wasn't an important criticism, not even the so-called opposition even present in this assembly here, which indicates that the job could have been better done, right, so why didn't they do it better? It's a simple and simple question. Dear citizens, it is important that everything we have done and what we plan to do for our citizens, because Mr. Gilas is not, and thanks to our president who has great enthusiasm, great commitment, has valuable reasons, and these reasons are we citizens, our children, and so much is done in our Serbia and we are developing so quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70006	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70007	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 94 prescribed that Serbia takes care of its development evenly. However, it is not respected. Serbia received 42m euros for the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Vršac railway, i.e. Pančevo. During Zorana Mihajlovic, Beovz Pančevo-Belgrade and other parts of the southern Banat that used transport, and there are about 15 thousand workers, students, students who come to Belgrade on the route, because it is the southern Banat, which is the most underdeveloped part of the AP Vojvodina and apparently that Mrs Mihajlovic punished the Pančevs for not being able to use Beovoz, and during the government of the radicals and the Socialists, the White Train went from Belgrade, Panchevo, to the Vojlovic Periferi. Did Mrs. Mihajlovic not visit the settlements in Serbia, it is that she went to Leskovec and Piroth and went to Cačka to take a picture and take the highway to drive? But, please, she couldn't get me a single village on the territory of the Nova Varosh municipality to tour. Did Mrs. Mihajlovic visit Pančevo and go to a populated place called Mali London, a Roma settlement that has about 500 inhabitants, who live there, but have no water, no electricity, no sewers. Well, why didn't she move the ministry there and help the Roma and those poor with no infrastructure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70008	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70009	Thank you, Chairman. With the implementation of infrastructure projects planned in the development strategy, the Serbian government will ensure further development and stability of Serbia. Here, I will relate here to everything my colleague Avramov used to say before me. Just for reasons of equal regional coverage, building apartments for security members has not only remained in the cities of Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Vranje, Kragujevac and Kraljevo, but other cities in Serbia who are interested in joining the programme have been given a proposal and a location where these apartments could be built. Construction of these apartments in Novi Sad was started in 548, in Nis 190, Vranja 186, Kraljev 200, Kragujevac 216, Sremska Mitrovica 190. What is very important, domestic construction operations have been hired and domestic building materials are used, which means there are jobs for different professions and crafts in these works, which directly led to increased employment and overall development of Serbia. Each block of apartments is always followed by new roads, homes of health, schools, kindergartens, new companies are opened, small businesses and shops are growing, and such new parts of the city are spreading very quickly. Today, the World Bank recognises Serbia as one of the leaders in a project dedicated to facilitating trade and transport in the region, and is interested in supporting the development of urban mobility plans in cities and municipalities of Serbia. Thus, it will contribute to a wider overall goal, i.e. improving the quality of the environment in urban areas. I would like to point out that I am extremely happy with the project of building the Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad highway. The deal was signed with the Chinese company Shanghai, and the value was estimated at nearly 600m euros, and I also believe that it is a very important agreement on co-operation and a contractual agreement for a project to collect and clean up waste water from the central sewerage system of the city of Belgrade, which we did not even mention, which was signed with the Chinese company "Machinery Engineering Corporation" in Serbia. The fact is that Belgrade is the only city in Europe that does not have a wastewater treatment system and that this project is of paramount importance because the long-term problem of the city of Belgrade will be solved. This is an extremely important capital project. Research says 190 million cc's of waste water are being poured into the Sava and Danube annually, and only the first phase of implementation of this project will cost 270m euros. By building this facility, we will remove 80% of the wastewaters in Sava and Danube. So, citizens will have double benefits, improve the quality of life, avoid the danger of floods. This year, it will work to realise major projects concerning the protection of the environment and the promotion of the life of Belgraders, who, thanks to a stable financial situation in Serbia, will have a solution to this problem, and most importantly for the city of Belgrade, are wastewater treatment, subway construction and construction of a bypass around Belgrade. I congratulate you on that, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70010	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70011	Dear Oliver, thank you for specifically mentioning apartments for security forces, it is another way for the state of Serbia to repay all those people who work in the area of security, but also the possibility that these apartments, the new ones that we will work and build, will also be for health workers, professors and other professions. It's one way for these people to stay in our country and not leave Serbia. Of course, we promised, that's what we do. The president of Serbia presented the project two years ago and we are working on this project. We will have the first apartments already, or the keys to the first apartments that we will give in March of the month in Vranj, and then in all other cities. So the results are what is most important and what Serbian citizens are interested in. Some others have left behind tears of all those who have been hoarse, and we are making roads, and railroads, and new airports and new apartments, and we really care about the citizens, we don't have any false care about the citizens or the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70012	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70013	It is absolutely unacceptable, again we must address the only professional person here, and this is Mrs Damjanovic, that this text for this member is changed, that is to say, to insist that city urbanist can, in addition to the experience in architecture, have or have no urban experience. We have such a situation in Kragujevac because of the trade in influence of the Nikolic family and Radomer Nikolic. What Zoran is doing at the republican level, that's what that family clan does in Kragujevac. Aleksandar Nenkovic, the city's main urbanist, does not have a single working day as an urbanist. He is an architect, but with very suspicious business. Namely, his company "Vectra System", so I think it is called, which exists for many years, has not contributed anything in terms of building someone or a business or housing facility, because he is absolutely antitalented for the architecture he has completed. But that's why Radomir Nikolic, as chief urbanist in the town of Kragujevac, entrusted him with the work of reconstruction of the building, "Energy", that is, our city heat, and I absolutely must say that the employees were astounded by it as many people who work in the city administration of Kragujevac. The question arises – how do you then encourage urban chaos in Serbia's cities to resolve construction inspections to do their job normally, to control how the Law on Planning and Construction is implemented, at the level of local self-government when in one such and such big city you have such a scandal. If it weren't for us who are representatives of the people we speak, we Serbian did the truth and the truth and always the truth, the citizens would remain unprotected, as would all those who are saddened by your behaviour and all your machinations in the previous ministry and this. Of course, we'll also talk about what you were doing as Minister of Energy, when you got sick of NIS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70014	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70015	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, have been told that the country, or government of this country, near the airport, is also taking care of airports alongside highways and railways. Since we probably won't have time to talk about other laws, and there's the Air Traffic Act, I have to say the following. Since Constantin the Great Airport is of special importance to the Republic of Serbia and the city of Nis, no moment has been questioned, continuously, permanently, operationally functioning, as an international airport providing services in regular and emergency air transport through a fixed flight schedule. Since the state took over airport management from the city of Nis, the state has invested about 256 million dinars. Of these, 70 million dinars were interveningly transferred to "Serbia Airport" for the removal of ice and protection of aircraft from freezing. As for further investment at Constantin Veliki Airport, it should be said that from 2020 to 2025 by SMATSA, five million euros should be invested for technical documentation and performance of works on the Konstantin Veli Tower and 120,000 euros for electrical installations for new equipment, 135,000 euros for an extension of the 300m runway. One million and 500 thousand euros for the light-marking system, 5 million and 400,000 euros for the reconstruction and construction of the passenger terminal, a million and 500 000 euros for the upgrade of the platform, 150 times 100 meters of 15,000 square meters and 4 million and 400 000 euros for the construction of a new roller. All these assets to the city of Nis, and therefore it was necessary for the management of the airport to be taken over by the state. As far as passengers are concerned and there is a growth recorded at the Niško airport for 20 percent more passengers in 2019 compared to 2018. 422 thousand passengers have been registered, 20 per cent more than in 2018 when there were 352 thousand passengers. Statistics show that the number of passengers was followed by the growth of the number of aircraft, in 2018 Nis was the destination for thousands and 417 passenger aircraft, and in 2019 for a thousand and 967. Also last year, there was a growth in the number of cargo cargoes, in 2018, of Constantin Veli airport was a destination for 34 cargo aircraft carrying a total of 688 tonnes of goods, while in 2019 it served 45 cargo planes with a total of thousands and 180 tonnes of goods. It means that President Aleksandar Vucic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES, where you are included, is taking care of the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, as last time, I still think the prosecution should launch an investigation into 620 million Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70016	The amendment, added by members 51a and 51b, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Traffic Planning, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 52. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70017	If I remember correctly, the unfortunate civil war was already over in the former Yugoslavia in 1995 by bombing the SRJ in 1999, and just to remind you, today's president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, was a member of the SRS and it's its high funkiconer, and now it's a little unfair by some members of the government, to say that the members of the SRS are war thugs, and that says how much someone appreciates it. As regards Article 52, which is located in the part of the transitional and final provisions that say that all will end the applications for authorisation and licence, both for individuals and for these building permits, and it is said that all will begin the procedures to go according to the law which was in force at the time when they began, and on exceptional occasions, on this law which is likely to be adopted. It's a good picture, a particular minister of construction, because, and in previous days I said, it's the most law, Lex specialis, or special laws adopted under his proposal or the government's proposal, where the minister is competent to explain these laws. That's also one part of which you can doubt. Dear fellow Members of the people, and the citizens of Serbia and we see these highways, and believe that we admire, not only roads, every bridge, every nice street in the city, and I've recently been in one not big place, where the president of the municipality was so successful in his time, and now he's a MP, I don't want to talk about who it is, if there were no problems, I can see that he's not far away. It's not Jesic, it's your patient, I'd say, with a little bit more correct and better people talking, not to say, co-operate, and I've seen the roads done to the village, not in every village, but most of all, what could have been done was done. These villages aren't even far from the place, the township, from the community headquarters, maybe just a few miles away, but what's worrying about all of us is that there are few people out there. They didn't even come to their community to stay alive, to look for that existence, but to develop their place together with hardworking people, but to move on. Some have not even held back, but we must think that the paths are the ways of return and not the ways of departure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70018	The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, India has numbered 31 thousand inhabitants, and now it counts 48 thousand inhabitants. In 2000, after the change, some of us dedicated themselves to building a highway. Borovica was a problem that we had to solve, because within the agreed deadline, he had not paved a single meter of highway. We had to do it in a certain way, under the quote, to remove it, so the highway would be finished. That first stock that came to Novi Sad helped us build an industrial zone in India. So by 2007, we kept building an industrial zone. And today, regardless of the population's growth from 30,000 to nearly 50,000, the unemployment in India is less than 5%, which says that at the time where the situation solved the highways of the industrial zone, that these people were being held back. In 2007, after the construction of the industrial zone, I was replaced by yellow cockroaches in the water management building, at an illegal session where, behold, wonders of some coincidence were chaired by a committeeman named Divjak. So in a wild session chaired by the Wildman without a secretary, the Vice President, I've been appointed president of the assembly, and at the same time some people are angry in Ruma. But, my God, it was an honor to be replaced in such a way. Today unemployment is less than 5% there. The situation we found in the Republic, when we came back in 2012, was bad, not bad, but tragic. There was not enough black paint to paint the situation in the Republic of Serbia in all areas, especially in the building. Why doesn't anyone today say, let's just say, in 2019, the value of construction works in 2018 or 2018, when it also grew compared to 2017, seems to me by more than 15%, that in 2019, it grew by over 25% compared to 2018 if I'm not mistaken, the value of construction works? It's a major impact on GDP. It was previously severe financial solidarity operations. Why doesn't anyone say that these former unfortunates spent 6.7 billion euros in privatisation and that they didn't build anything, that they left us without highways, that they left us without industry, that they left us without any economy, that they left us without jobs, empty funds, broken banks, that the rate grew 50% in a few years, that inflation was almost double-digit or that it was already double-digit, that nobody would say? Today they resent us for not solving the problems they left us with supersonic speed. But we must be aware that we all live in the Republic of Serbia, that all of us should be worthy and dedicated, diligent, and with our energy we are building the Republic of Serbia, that Serbia will be on a good path when we are all on a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70020	Thank you. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70021	Article 54 is the last member of this bill, and when only this member is seen then it seems to be a clear sense of the whole of this law, but it seems that the MPs have not even read the text of the law or this member. They were all racing here today when they were talking, and a man would have the impression that they were coming from work. We've done so many highways, we've done so many miles on Corridor, we've been here so many miles, we've been there, God damn it, like they've all rolled up their sleeves and made highways. And what's pointless about this article? This is the last member to say -- that this law is in effect on the eighth day since its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that only this would have been completely normal, regular and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is said that the provision of Article 3 of this law comes into force only on 1 June 2020. And then the provision of Article 43 concerning, in fact, nine other members say -- will come into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. So, never. It's amazing to us and we've told it many times, it's not the first time we've had this kind of nonsense that the National Assembly is passing laws that will come into force when Serbia joins the EU. You laws like this, in fact, deny yourself and your official policy, when, as representatives of the government, not only MPs, but also representatives of the executive and representative of the state when you say that you are doing nothing at the EU's order because it is important to you because of the EU and because Serbia may enter the EU, because you know that it will not, but you are doing it to make it better for us in Serbia. Now, if these nine members who won't come into force until they join the EU, I don't know who, we won't, if we're the best in the world, they mean nothing to us because they can't apply to Serbia until that day, "D". So, Serbia's entry into the EU is no longer being spoken, and neither are the biggest optimists among you thinking about it anymore. In addition, the president of the state recently said that he was perfectly clear when he was there for an international meeting, that even if, God forbid, someone in Serbia recognized the fake state of Kosovo, we would not enter the EU again. That is, of course, clear to us from the very beginning, but it is not to you, and therefore you are also passing these laws that will come into force, I said never.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70022	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70023	Thank you. There was a lot of talk here about a broad topic, such as planning and construction, but quite a little said, at least I noticed a special process to realize the construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. I think it is very important that this process will speed up the process of expropriation and other procedures, that we will not waste time, that the Republic, together with local self-government, will speed up the construction of line infrastructure. I want to remind you of what kind of line infrastructure objects are, of course I'm going to miss something and there's more of them, they're electrical networks, underground, underground, travel network, TT cables, sewers, heat lines, gas pipeline, plumbing network, I probably dropped something. All of this is of special importance to the Republic, and in particular, water supply in all of this. I will say about water supply from the "Stubo Rovni", which is located above Valjevo and from this accumulation, through the cave in Valjevo, or where there will be a water purification plant, will be supplied to seven municipalities, namely Valjevo, Lajkovac, Ub, Mininica, Ljig, Lazarjevac and Koceljeva, which has entered this year as the new seventh member of this regional water pipeline of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. Of course it won't be so fast, but it won't be so far away, so one large territory, a municipality where there's an unworthy part of healthy, proper, drinking water, will be supplied with the accumulation "Stubo Rovi", or via a water purifier in the cave of Valjevo. Of course this is great news. Congratulations on the adoption, i.e. after the vote of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, as well as this Act on Special Procedures in order to speed up the infrastructure procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70024	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70025	This law is changing for the tenth time and this is an opportunity to say that Zorana Mihajlovic, we informed the public in December of last year, involved in the oil trade and storage of oil derivatives in Serbia. Namely, the Association of Oil Companies of Serbia asked the ministry and also through the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to extend the deadline for meeting technical requirements for many companies that invested huge funds by the end of 2020, however, it was deafened. For what? Because Zorana Mihajlovic takes 10% of the commission from the company Mitan Oil, which has the exclusive capacity to store oil derivatives, whose son is formerly the infamous communist official Mike Spiljak, a certain Vanja Špiljak, who is doing the job uninterruptedly. I must remind, here it is likely that Mr. Matic and Mr. Atlagic also remember Mr. Risticevic, that when he was director of the Zagreb INE, Mika Špiljak stole 10,000 tons of oil in the Atlantic Ocean. Well, you can see that the splinter doesn't fall far from the log. And that's exactly the kind of guy, now Mike Spiljak's son, Vanja Spiljak, is connected to Zorana Mihajlovic. Otherwise, she would have heard all this. No, it's not a lie, you can raise it again, you can put those 300-euro gloves on your hands, if you're cold and here, to raise that transparency. We just got word from the oil company association. They ask, Mrs Damjanovic, as a serious person, that the deadline for their re-registration, i.e. to meet all these conditions, be extended for a valid reason. It has already been done and similarly chosen by gravel and has been defined by a member of the law, Article 60, so that they can bring it into line by 31 December 2023. So this is absolutely true, because if someone wanted to help these Serbian businessmen, and they were really a large number would do it. Of course, she doesn't want it, because of this personal interest and the stretching of the company outside the cave.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70026	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of this Law, where I asked that words "need to river traffic" be added after the word "ministration". Of course, the government did not adopt this amendment, although there were all reasons to accept this amendment, but I am not surprised, I would not even be surprised that it stands here instead of "ministration" that it says that Zorana Mihajlovic is in charge. Speaking of this law, at the ports and sailing on the inner waters, we know that God has given us several great rivers that are watery: Danube, Tisa, Sava, Morava, perhaps in its lower course, but now I'm interested in one other thing. Maybe the people who live in Vojvodina may know that, but we down from southern Serbia are certainly not referred to the situation with the situation on the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel. We all know from a long time ago that this was one of the largest projects of the communist Yugoslavia since World War II. We know even before World War II, and they even have some stories that it's from time to time, the construction of that channel, the first foundations of that channel have been hit back in Mary Teresa's day. We have neither seen nor read in this law nor heard from the minister in her exposé, nor in response to the MPs, what about the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel? Is there something planned to be done and is it even possible to sail at least that projected sailing, as it was imagined when the canals were built?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70028	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70029	Thank you. Since we are already talking about amendments to the amendment of the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, I would also like to point out some information about the transport of 7,500,000 tonnes of goods in 2015 to the Danube and the Sava in 2019, and about 14,000,000 tonnes of goods are expected to be transported by 2021. As for project activities, after 30 years, the Republic of Serbia has significant investments in water transport. The total value of ongoing and planned projects is 518.8m euros. At the realization stage are the following projects: hydrotechnical and baggeric works on critical sectors on the Danube River in Serbia between Backa Palanka and Belgrade. The completion of work in 2020 totalling 9.3m euros is expected and will all contribute to improving the conditions and safety of navigation. Then, adaptations of the ship's conductor in the form of HE ‘Gerdap 1’, then the extension of terminal capacity for the scattered and general loads of Smederevo port. Then, building a new railroad from the Mali Krsna-Smederevo railway to the new port of Smederevo. Then, privatization of the port operator of Novi Sad. Then, extracting a submerged German fleet from World War II, an international passenger port in Zemun. As far as planned port development projects are concerned, construction of a new port in Belgrade is worth 190m euros, and the deadline for implementation is 2023. The development of a general project and a previous study of Belgrade port justification is under way. Then, extending the capacity of the port of Sremska Mitrovica, then, extending the capacity of the port Bugojno and expanding the capacity of the port of Prahovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70030	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70031	A very important area is water traffic. Also, a few years ago we could neither dream of talking about water transport investment projects, and today we can stop here and say that the projects already signed, which are being implemented, have a value of more than 250m euros, and that new investment projects in ports will all amount to half a billion euros in water transport investments in Serbia. Somehow water traffic as if it didn't exist in the previous period. We have seen it differently, thinking that all kinds of traffic must develop and that we can't even think about making progress in infrastructure if we don't invest in water traffic. So the state, for example, passed certain laws 10 years ago, asking all economic operators to adapt to that law, for 10 years some entities did not adapt to that law and then, of course, there were some problems, but that was solved. All economic operators who had any problems managed to comply with the law after 10 years. Of course, some others have explained and spoken, under that false story, how they care about the economy, how they care about the citizens, accusing both the ministers and me personally, but do you know how I do it? When accused, then I writely ask the prosecution to examine all the allegations, therefore, all those, and to examine me and the complete projects or everything suspected, which has been done for this law that was passed in 2010, and to mention companies such as Mitan Oil, etc. So there are institutions, if something doesn't comply with the law. I personally sought and written, for which there is evidence, to examine it. What is much more important than all of this, everyone does their job, is that these projects that are started both on the Danube and on the Sava and that will start with the construction of the translator and on Tisa, therefore, are as important as any highway and as any railway. Because today we're talking about modern, intermodal, first of all, traffic. Without it, there is no further development of infrastructure. Half a billion euros, the state of Serbia is investing in water traffic. Half a billion euros is huge money for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70032	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70033	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to give a kind of answer or comment on what the minister was saying earlier. I think there is no need, Mrs. Mihajlović, to spend energy and time, and the prosecution and anyone who spends their time and energy on certain things that are absolutely unnecessary, because we need to focus our energy on exactly what we talked about a little bit earlier, which is to improve water traffic and use the maximum resources that we have when it comes to water and, of course, attract as many domestic and foreign investors as possible to make water traffic better and be more competitive as a country in that area, especially when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the transport of goods, because I think it is a very, very good and very big resource for our country. As for these speculations about these companies that previous speakers spoke about, here, I must say again clearly welcome all companies that want to invest their capital in Serbia, who want to invest in new technologies in Serbia. The fact that Mitan Oil is a Croatian company absolutely has nothing to do with it if they want to invest their capital, if they want to hire people here, if they want to revive some port here in the Republic of Serbia. We, absolutely, like the majority in parliament, as the government and the president himself, are not immune to development, we are not immune to capital, we are absolutely not interested, we are only interested if the capital is speculative. Of course, we're going to fight for investment in our country to be the ones that, let's say the economists have a overwhelming character, that they're healthy investments, so capital that can fertilize well here, hire people, hire some new technologies, and, of course, have such an effect on our economy in the sense that those companies that invest here employ highly qualified and highly educated people. We don't care if the company... Here we have Croatian investment in Jelen Do, quarry, we have some more investments. People, if you want to invest in Serbia, welcome. South Korea, China, the Russian Federation, the United States, Azerbaijan, Greece, anyone who is welcome. I don't want to, and I don't think it's very bad for our country's economy and a very bad message for us to say -- we're disgusted now on capital or someone who wants to come and invest money in our country. I can never agree absolutely with this approach, especially I cannot agree that because of this, the Minister of the Government of our country must be forced, of course, to defend his honor, his family, his child, her parents, her friends, to confirm something that is clear to us all, and because someone wants to use it for daily-political purposes. And in my previous speech, I said it was very important that we today and in the coming months discuss key things for the future of our country. Gentlemen, the MPs are waiting for us to resolve key political issues for our country and we are talking about some pointless things here, we are losing energy. We should fight for Kosovo and Metohija, fight for the defence of our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Today in Mrkonjic City, in Drvar, in Čipuljiæi, in Bugojn, the president is fighting daily for the protection of our country's interests, as is done by Zorana Mihajlović and our entire majority here in parliament, and you have found that you are talking about "The same news bridge", about some Mr. Jovan Kovacic, some things that are not interested in Serbian citizens, and they have never heard of it, nor have I heard of it. I'm interested in the results as a member of the People's Parliament. I ask you once again to engage in the debate by making a good proposal or perhaps bringing in a good investor from the Russian Federation, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, some of the countries of the former Soviet Union or perhaps Iraq, as you maintain great ties with them. Maybe that's not bad. Maybe Iraqi companies are better than American, Israeli or any other. Welcome. Let's go back and talk about some normal things and topics, not about conspiracy theories, whether Zorana Mihajlović is a member of some association or not I know the Rotari Club. In the end, you'll say that, I don't know, he's a member of a "Thirty Council" that creates a world policy and a new world order. That really doesn't make sense. What's worse about all of this and having me for moral reasons as a man and your fellow MP, it's that we're ready all of us here to endure the attack of someone's family, to attack someone's child, to attack someone's parents without any reaction. People, I guess we're some people here, we're MPs, we're protecting the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's change this practice a little bit, act according to what is the High House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, fight here with our ideas, our programs, our policies. Here, here, I'm ready always with my colleagues to come out on the line, talk about the economy, talk about investments, talk about what's better for our country on the foreign-political agenda and the level and defend my views, but of course I'm not ready to enter some debates that I don't think are meant to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70034	You have no right to a replica, colleague Jovanovic. I realized that all this was about the discussions of Katarina Rakic. Members of the 12th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70035	I have to look back on this previous discussion. This looks like a working battalion defending the smoker. That's how Mr. Marinkovic defended the attitudes, the children, the family. We don't know whose children or whose family they are. We don't know anything, but it's marketing. You know, when it's presented to the public that we're attacking someone's children, right away the public logic of things is side by side with someone whose children are at risk. Whose children are at risk, Mr. Marinkovic? Who's attacking someone's children in this House? Nobody. You're making it up. You're going so far in hypocrisy that we're discussing the Port Act, and you sell all the ports, about sailing, and there are no domestic shipmen. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? fairy tales? You're telling us some economic categories. He knows anyone who's opened any economic literature or who's connected to that area that water traffic is the cheapest, but where's your story about highways? It's the most expensive ride. Water traffic and transport is cheaper than road to road three times, than rail one and a half times. Everyone knows that. Where are your boaters at home? What are you defending? Foreign capital. Where did this foreign capital develop domestic economy? How about an example? Especially in this way, as it is potential in Serbia to further subsidise foreign investments. Other foreigners produce semi-products that export and install into the finished product. So where this develops that economy, say you who are constantly imposing yourself as an expert in the economy. If you want to impose on Alexander Wolf, here I take over. A real opportunity after the election, I'll recommend you. How can you defend him when he's being attacked by his resolute minister and say that he crashed, that he was cooing, that he was destroying. Do you think a little bit about what you're talking about? It is repeated nonstop that the matrix that Aleksandar Vukic participated in the destruction, destruction, in inviting other people's children to go to die, it's always that. That's what the Serbian radicals are all about. That's what my colleague Martinovic was doing. By that logic, he did the same thing. Look a little bit to protect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70036	Thank you. Right to the replica, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70037	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. This is exactly what I wanted to achieve. So, one discussion exactly what you were talking about. The president has just visited those houses that were burned in the war, so his family, so in the Chipuljiæi, if you'd like that answer. I just wanted to talk to you about water traffic. I wanted to talk to my colleague Mircic about roads, about building infrastructure and how to build the future of our country and how to build what is most important for the development of our country's economy, for our children, and these are highways, and these are railroads. That's what brings us together, but what brings us together with all the countries in the region. That is what our vision and strategy is to make economic alliances, to make economic integration. I will answer you directly to one of the questions when it comes to your position on how much foreign direct investment can develop the economy of a country. I'll just tell you that the People's Republic of China, I know that you know very well the economic situation and economic development of China, that in the People's Republic of China most of the money in their banks actually has Taiwanese banks and that it has Taiwanese capital regardless of what they have a political problem and that the People's Republic of China, of course, does not recognise Taiwan and considers it part of its territory. Because of the economic interest of its own country and its own people, it is ready to co-operate on economic, trade and all other plans with everyone. It also cooperates with the United States, which is one of the largest political and economic rivals of the People's Republic of China. That's what I'm telling my colleague Mircic that we don't need to be and should not be interested in whose capital comes to Serbia if it's the intention of these companies to hire our people, to hire our children, to open up companies, to modernise the country. We actually need to be an open country. We're too small to be isolated. That's what we're different about. We are prepared and much more open to co-operation and these are our views, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70038	Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70039	Mr. Marinkovic, you here, with a simple jargon, say mix your grandmothers and frogs. You state the case of the pandemic of China. China by population, by economic potential is far above America, far above the more developed countries, not Serbia. Everyone's interested in investing in such a single country. Over a billion inhabitants. Just to count on an average per capita per euro being realised, so that's a billion euros a day. It's a simple logic. You're not talking about the essence of the problem here. Here, by transporting water transport, there are more and more represented Germans, German companies. Look at the Danube, monopoly established. From the source of the Danube to the Black Sea, all you have is Germany. What are you talking about? We are going to go to some benefit Serbia is going to have to take care of. So we sold by the logic that Miroljub Labus advocated, saying it's not ours to produce, it's ours to sell. We sold Luke Pancevo, Mr. Marinkovic if you didn't know one technical piece of information. She's trained to dock overseas ships. So it's deep, gauze. It's for the transport of cereal. They sold it. Sold the same ones as these now that have logic things while he was DOS. I hear Phillipe throw, but I don't notice that person at all. It's not my fault everyone makes a mistake. He also made a mistake of the rope, so he came down from the fish brush, not Milorad Mircic for helping Arsic in his political career.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70040	Right to the replica, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70041	I was really surprised, I thought the SRS was a party that promotes market economy and fully supports an even faster transition of our economy, so the economy of the Republic of Serbia towards a market-based liberal economy. Why is it heresy if it's a company, and it's a port, it's sold? What's the problem, I guess all of us here together should advocate private initiative and private capital. What are we talking about here? We can also agree that state-owned electricity can remain, that they should remain possibly railways, but of course I don't think there's any dilemma about what's more effective in the economic world and in the economy, that it's, of course, private capital. What I was saying earlier, an esteemed colleague, is absolutely one support for a private initiative and investors who have enough money to invest here in Serbia, to introduce new technologies into our factories, and in our economy, and in this way to hire, you mentioned Panchevo well, I am very pleased about it. In Panchev, a few months ago, the president opened a factory that employs 360 people where the average net earnings are 1700 euros. That's gross 2700. This is the policy that slowly brings about, and that is what I say, three and a half billion euros of foreign direct investment last year, we strengthen our own economy, we strengthen our private initiative and we strengthen our entrepreneurial spirit. We introduce dual education, we build infrastructure. So, soft, hard infrastructure, clear our vision of what modern Serbia is, how we will hire Serbia and how we will ensure the well-being of our citizens. That's what we do. Could someone have imagined, just a few years ago, that in some company, imagine in Panchev, that the average salary would be 1700 euros? It couldn't have been anyone, but it is, it's doable, we're working on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70042	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70043	No one is against privatisation, but you're obviously not in progress, Mr. Marinkovic. This law is about making promises to build ports. Who's gonna make them? They'll be a real country. What were we selling? The last one is the privatized port of Novi Sad. Imagine how far it went. Pressure has been put on people to buy ports and land. Pressure's been put on. I'm not saying it was done by the foreign government ministry, but lobbyists did it, so different economic acrobatics were made to sell the country. How far did it go? We need to define ourselves, to say it's rational, and it's worth it for private citizens in Serbia to deal with transport, with water traffic, you're right, to train our railways, to train our roads, to see that Serbia is benefiting. These stories of foreign capital investment and that someone has so much benefit, giving subsidies, paying the one coming from abroad, these stories are neither economic nor practical. No one's evolved like that, Mr. Marinkovic. You know that well. If it were good, the Germans would be the first to do it, first to do the countries of the European Community. They don't, the more developed countries don't. This way she advocates, we become more and more a colony. It's about hiring a workforce, it's numerically right, but don't forget -- the compensation for their work is getting lower and lower. Competition grows higher and higher for the workplace and makes up for lower and lower. Don't get carried away. Don't talk in Serbia about what a futuristic perception of you as an individual is. Serbia lives in real life.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70044	Right on line, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70045	I'll be very brief. I absolutely believe that most of our hall has nothing against, in fact, supporting that there is as much investment in Serbia as possible from Germany. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know, therefore, that German companies currently employ more than 55,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These are companies where workers' rights are respected, these are companies that introduce the latest technology here, these are companies that when they invest their capital here, it's a clear signal to all companies in the world that we're a safe country, that we're a reliable country, that we're a stable country. This is what will determine further our progress and our goal that we have outlined, which is that we have an economic growth greater than 5% that we need to reach our strategic goal, which is unemployment that will be brought down below 5%. Comrade Mircic, you know that very well. And Milan Stojadinovic, during his government, brought "Simens" to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and co-operated at that time, therefore, and at that time and previously cooperated and tried to bring our people and our government to foreign companies, co-operated with Count Chan, co-operated with Benesh, with Masarik, with Kemal Ataturk. And then we had, remember that time, economic growth of over 10... You can't remember, of course, but I know you've read a lot about it, that we've had an economic growth greater than 10%. We weren't then, because we were pragmatic, we were disgusted at anyone's capital, because we ran one policy that is still being run today, which is a policy of orientation towards our interests. So, we love and respect our country and our own economic interests, and we are ready to cooperate with everyone, so that our people are more employed, so that our people live better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70046	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70047	You've heard, Mr. Marinkovic, the finding of the minister of resistor who sits here as a fresco, who said we don't read. But here's to you, when you touched Stojadinovic, Nikola Pasic did it before him. He introduced foreign capital as shareholders in Serbia's railway. There's a very interesting, interesting story, you might find it instructive. Not to pay attention to those who say we don't read. Lazar Pacu, a rheumatologist, was the finance minister in the government of Nikola Pasic. He took a large loan from Serbia from France, as the Serbian dinar was then appreciated. Laza Pacu is investing in the Paris subway loan, becoming Serbia's shareholder. Pasic asks Lazu Pachu that it is not too big a loan, how we will repay it, and Pasic suits him - let whoever gave the loan think about it and let it go. The economy is developing, its economies, by investing in others, if they can work for you, and not vice versa, so we can be a cheap workforce, a raw base, as they say. In the economy is the basic rule - if you have cheaper energies and you have production, you are competitive, you have a chance to come back to life. We have the energy on the other side of Russia. No one here rules out German capital and German entry, we're not exclusive, but in Russia there's a perspective, there's cheap energy, there's raw materials cheap, there's a market for Serbia. We have a chance for development to be more energy-competitive, and we can do that if the gas highway passes, which finally happened, because that's why the former Energy Minister, not to name it, is sitting here as a fresco.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70048	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? You don't have time. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague. I didn't understand the question. The 12th amendment was submitted by MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, if several MPs from the same parliamentary group submit amendments which are identical, they will be deemed to be the same amendment that submitted several Members of Parliament together and the provisions laid down in Article 5 shall apply. As you can see, I'm not distracted, I'm very focused and I'm looking to do my job right. That's what it says to me, and that's what the Service said. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70049	We're continuing what we started, regarding this bill. Whether we want to or not, we just have to do our job and bring out what we see as the reason for changing some law. This is the tenth time this law has changed, and we have every time drawn attention to the reasons why the law is changing, because we knew that something was hiding behind it, so we also talked about the sale of the New Sad port, etc. And every time we were right. What do we do when we get good information before we start doing this? It would be really good to remind the public prosecutor's office from this place that they are obliged to respond to any information they find out in public. So they have to react, and if they read something in the newspaper, they see it on television, so of course, especially what they hear in the National Assembly. Because what concerns this information that we got from the Oil Company Association is something that really points to obvious organized crime. It's interesting that since December, since we raised that question, no one in the country has responded. Then you say we're making something up, etc. No, we're not making up anything, we're just making up the dry facts. The fact is that this "Mitan Oil" is the owner of his Vanja Spiljak and that those from the association and not only them, but many knowers say that they got that license because various changes to the law came about that almost all companies except two, one of them was "Mitan Oil", that they were simply prevented from opening up these oil-derived warehouses, driven because they simply can't meet the conditions, because every law is more rigorous than that of the previous one just to put out the competition and that those in the business would remain in the process, in the soil, in this particular case, "Mitan Oil" and Zorana Mihajlovic. What else is wrong with this company, Mitan Oil, Mrs. Mihajlovic? Just hold it, if your arm doesn't hurt, put on those 30,000 dinar gloves and hold it, show your desperate attempt to defend yourself against the truth. But it's not working. No one defended themselves from the truth. It may seem to you right now, but the truth breaks like water, it always finds its way where it should come from. So this "Mitan Oil" and this Mika, or Vanja Spiljak, descendent of Mike Spiljak, are doing something other than this criminal job related to oil storage. They are doing something absolutely against the state of Serbia and Zorana Mihajlovic knows it. They are the exclusive suppliers of NATO oil companies in KIM, and that is something that should be a fundamental reason to deny them hospitality in our country on this job. Then some colleagues try to cloud it with a story; we are against foreign investments; they are; let whoever comes. Well, he can't. He can't do it that way. First, unfortunately, there are very few foreign investments in Serbia. These foreign plants, the plants of foreign firms that come to Serbia because they receive incentive funds, at 10,000 euros per job, are not foreign investments. Foreign investment is something else that, unfortunately, there is little in Serbia. Of course, today, within this agenda point, we are particularly focused on this business and on the inability of other companies to deal with these oil derivatives, by selling. Because we repeat, Zorana Mihajlovic will say "radical lie", but no, because we repeat that Zorana Mihajlović is dealing with "Mitan Oil" and Vanja Špiljko, who is the son of Mike Špiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70050	National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70051	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, good domestic investment, good foreign investment. Small countries, like us, we have to live off exports. Their need to buy goods, especially in these foreign trade chains that replaced industrial chains during the reign of these former unfortunates, yellow, these trade chains sell goods. We can't buy foreign money for foreign money if we don't earn it. Countries such as Serbia must live off increased exports to finance population standards, but also to cover imports from these exports. Foreign investments are good, not only bring new jobs, bring new technologies. Foreign investments, which someone here ignored, bring in a piece of the market. Let's say, for us in India, all foreign investors, founders of our foreign capital companies, so these are domestic firms, these factories can't be taken to the backpack and carried away, they stay here, they're just the founder of foreign capital. Some of the founders are changing, but these foreign investors have brought us part of their market. For example, Croats think they cheated on Serbs by investing in Serbia, but today they also had a surplus with Croatia. If we're against foreign investment, then we're against the Chinese, then we're against the Russians, then we're also against Sartid making steel, then we're against the Bor production of copper. The question is whether the Chinese would invest in Serbia, not to count the CEFTA market, and there are MPs here who are against CEFTA markets. So the question is whether they would invest, if they weren't thinking about the European market, or not using a pre-accession period now, and later perhaps if we came in, which, of course, isn't safe, count on using one big market, it seems to me with hundreds of millions. The question is, would they invest, is that right, Mr. Arsic, that they don't count on making a profit, which brings jobs. It is not an exact claim that foreign investment will give labour too much competition, so it will be cheaper. She's upside down. The number of jobs will increase, workers will be more appreciated and the relationship between capital and labour will be brought into line. Work will be more and more appreciated, because there will be a lack of labour.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70052	On what grounds, colleague Radeta? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70053	You haven't done anything, you've already commented on what I've already commented, so we're not against foreign investment and we never said we're against foreign investment, but we want more attention to domestic production, we certainly are. We are not against the arrival of the Chinese in Serbia, on the contrary, if it hadn't been for the SRS, the question is how to end "The Iron" in Smedereva, and thanks to us, we stopped that American project, so the Chinese came. We couldn't wait for the Chinese to take over "Bor" and we were happy when it happened and that's why no one can complain to us about something that's completely the opposite of SRS policy. We were against the conclusion of the CEFTA Agreement, it is absolutely true, it was at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but now that there is this CEFTA Agreement, for years, when there are certain obligations, etc., then again we cannot be told that we are against CEFTA Agreement, because today they are against CEFTA Agreement, those who are for "mini Schengen", because "mini Schengen" and CEFTA Agreement are in collegiate. You need to define whether you're for one or for the other. At least we're precise and clear always, we don't turn around as the wind blows, we have our own policy, which citizens sometimes say is more good, sometimes less good. It is important for us to be consistent in implementing this policy, and it is important that we believe in what we do, believe in our ideology, and that we are convinced that what we offer to the people is the best solution to all problems in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70054	Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that some of the MPs in the Republic of Serbia live in some utopia and in some times that have passed and can no longer return. You know, when some of my esteemed colleagues say we should compete in the price of energy, I ask the question – who should we compete with? With the Russian Federation? It's a lost battle in advance. You know, one more thing surprises me, too, to say, I know, the numbers are right, the number of employees has increased, but the labour price is getting lower. Let me explain this mathematical, any other economic logic. (Natasa Jovanovic: It is not on the agenda, but Zorana Mihajlovic. ) I just want to say that to show what it looks like when someone repeats the mantra that even some EU officials are telling us, and allegedly fighting, one part of the opposition is against Serbia's EU membership. Here, and they say – you have to decide which side, east or west. That's what some in the EU said, so they told them, no, Serbia has its own way, it's an independent sovereign country, and we decide who we're going to, when we're going to, how much we're going to do and what we're going to do. One more thing, in terms of these famous subsidies, when someone asks whether a country has secured economic development, I can mention countries that were at a far lower level of economic development 26, 27 years ago than Serbia. Here, first of all, I mean Poland, Czechoslovakia, today's Czech Republic and Slovakia, Hungary. I'm just asking a question, since they subsidized investors both domestic and foreign, are we in front of them today, around them or behind them? I think we're at the rate of economic development behind them. A Poland today has an average salary of over 1,000 euros. But when you say something's wrong, they never take the exact data, but they make arbitrary estimates that have no justification for being made. That's right through the whole discussion. Here, even there was a story – so what do we sell ports? Well, do we know we're taking them? Why didn't those ports do a good job? Because private capital wants its profits. In order to secure the profits, he must have a favor. In order to provide a service, he must be competitive with that service he will do. The state has proved to be a very bad employer in these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70056	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Professor Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70057	Dear Ambassador Arsic, it is clear to me why some people like to shut Serbia down and that Serbia is not even a member of some major and regional and other organisations, because it is very good for some to do business when Serbia is closed. Because when Serbia is closed they know how to do great business and know what it looks like. When Serbia was once under sanctions, then everything can happen and everything can be done. Serbia is a modern democratic state that respects its constitution and its laws and Serbia, of course, takes care of ports and, unlike all before SNS, so the Serbian government has singled out port land and port infrastructure, just to avoid selling port land, so it has ensured that it invests in everything else. So what we're going to do in the future in the investments in the ports that are important to us in water traffic, so maybe there's going to be a potential concession, not a complete sale of one part of the port, because we want to remain the owners, because we know what investment in water traffic means. Those who have no results and who have only produced results for their own personal needs, interests, because, as I say, during sanctions and closed Serbia, there is no system, there are no rules and anything can be done. Well, that's not how we do it. We work transparently and transparently. In this our party and our Government differed from some others who had other interests. So, one more thing, when all these companies are mentioned, we have a market here. When we talk about capacities, therefore, Mitan Oil has a capacity of 50,000 cubic metres of storage at Smederevo port, NIS has a capacity of 200,000 cubic metres at the same port, OMV - 19,000, MOL - 12,000, Lukol - 30,000. That means there's no monopoly on some of the companies mentioned, because we're not interested in having a monopoly, right in the ports. We wish we didn't have a monopoly, and we did everything in that sense that he wasn't there. So a lot of half-truths have been, but even more lies, but fortunately I believe, because of the citizens of Serbia, that the truth is still in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70058	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 19 speaks of a limited number of port service operators in one port. I asked my amendment to delete that member, precisely for this very reason, because I don't think there should be any restrictions here, because this is an ideal place for any corrupt actions. As you can see, Mrs. Mihajlovic, the ministry you run cannot pass anything without some particular suspicion of certain corruption. What is this criterion that someone will get a service authorisation and someone won't? This is a situation where competition is destroyed in the most direct way. Let there be competition in that area, and whoever endures, endures. But apparently, this is how they stretch out to their own people and you can see that even Marian got angry, and he probably figured out something that wasn't working with this law here. I'm saying that everything that's about your Ministry can't do without an affair, starting with the Bechtel affair. Now we've also heard about this oil affair here and today, related to a son or grandson of Mike Spelic, outside the cave. So this article 19 needs to be deleted, not to prevent any competition, but to have free access to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70060	Thank you. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70061	There, you talked about foreign investors but you didn't mention, Mr. Marinkovic, how these domestic businessmen should do business. They are protected by the amendment of this law and all of these so far because, according to the law which is now the tenth time in the change, I tell you, the port port area at a specific location is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Port Management Agency, and that you founded or your predecessors, it is irrelevant. However, the establishment and interpretation of the provisions of the water traffic development strategy and urban planning documentation to decide whether or not to establish or not the port area is being established, this is being taken by the ministry. This obstruction for these people who have made these terminals and invested huge funds has received all the certificates, prevents exactly the minister, Zorana Mihajlović and is deafening all their demands, proposals, the initiative to form a working group, that their deadline for bringing them in is extended by law until the end of this year for this reason Vanja Špiljka and "Mitan Oil" on concrete stretching such a thing. Wait, if you're up for the development of the domestic sector, if you want to help people who've definitely hired a certain number of people, if they've got all the technical conditions to meet, fire, environmental protection, why are you all deaf? It has not had a number of people who belong to this association on their demands, then, let them go after the free market economy, Mr Marinkovic, who is represented by the Serbian Radical Party, and you will not, you are monopolies, or you support a specific minister, so you agree with such a concept of the economy in Serbia that wants certain companies to hold a monopoly. I really don't have time to name all these companies, but these are people, Mr. Marinkovic, who don't get paid in the Assembly, like most MPs here, they've invested their money, and now they can't get permission to do jobs that they can normally do.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70062	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70063	We submitted this amendment because we believed that Zorana Mihajlović was a valuable minister, so we wanted to shorten the procedure for the adoption of sublegal acts to 30 days from the 60 days she predicted, and we especially realized that she was, in fact, in particular, in a hurry to change these laws as soon as possible, precisely because of her partner and those 10% commission with that "Mitan Oil" and Vanja Špiljak. Now, we don't know why she didn't accept it, I guess our amendments won't accept it, and it's not too important. With this amendment or without this amendment, with or without these changes or without these changes, we have monopolies at the storage and trade in oil derivatives, we have two companies. Many companies have been shut down because they have not met the conditions to be added to them from one to the other. Unfortunately, you in power, who will vote for these laws, somehow I'm afraid you don't take what we're saying seriously. If you think about it carefully and if you listen to us carefully, then it should be clear to you that we are here talking specifically about the bill's proposals, and above all about the consequences of the application of these laws or possibly the inability to apply the law. Both are something that Serbian citizens should be familiar with. We don't care about Zorana Mihajlović, nor would it ever be if it weren't for the information we're getting all over the place, which I'm sure you're getting, too. Because, in addition to having certain sources, which introduce us to many details, we believe that there are people who address you, who draw attention to you, but we don't know why you don't want to react, and when what's inevitable and what your colleague Peric said happens, when Zorana becomes "one of the five million" publicly and openly, then you'll all hit yourself with your hand on the forehead and say - where we don't listen to those radicals, which we let her pass so many of her laws, and each of these laws is the personal benefit of Zorana Mihajlović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70064	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on hydrographic activity. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Marijan Risticevic, Sreto Peric, Milorad Mirčić, Nemanja Sarović, Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Ružica Nikolic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Filip Stojanovic and Verica Radeta. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70065	Because of the irregularity of this area by a serious law, we have had, unfortunately, major problems in Serbia so far, we have them today. But this law will not solve any of these problems, at least not in the way we expected them to be solved. It is enough to see that the law will only apply with the moss since 1 June 2023. You remember everyone, and we remember all the promises that happened when those terrible floods happened and when there were all kinds of skating situations, etc., when we had a lot of trouble with riverbeds. Here we were talking about the river Morava, we were talking about artesian wells, we were talking about the need to bring down Tomislav Nikolic's villa on the Sava, because the most direct threat is to wells that provide water, cleanses water for all the lower Srem. But it's just that these specific cases don't reach your senses, and I really regrettably have to realize that maybe one of the MPs who's going to vote for this, when he sees the Law on Hydrographic Activity, doesn't really know what this law should get rid of everything. These are very life-threatening things and good legal solutions in this area depend on much. You know, as much as you boasted about what you were and how you quickly solved the problems both in Obrenovac and Krupanj, etc., that was not so. There were a lot of problems, and unfortunately, if, if God didn't give up, something like that would happen, they would still be, because you just don't want to. The most important thing for you is to explain to us some of the EU expressions in this law and in other laws and to make the laws under these directives and to be, in fact, somehow adapted there to some regulated countries and regulated not only in the legal sense, but also in this technical and technological sense. You cannot pass such laws for Serbia in which, unfortunately, when it comes to hydrographic activity, we are at the very beginning, in preschool. That's why this law had to be very different. And Zorana Mihajlovic owes an answer to the question when the villas of Tomislav Nikolic will be destroyed. Did she really promise what she had brought to the SNS through Tomislav Nikolic that these villas would be protected or something else? Maybe she'll answer someday, when she has to in front of the authorities anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70066	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70067	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on hydrographic activity. With this amendment, I asked for a change in the position of the 2nd law, as it clearly states that hydrographic activity is of public interest to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. As proposed in the law, there is no doubt whether this law applies in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija and whether the AP Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Have you seen what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says before writing the law? Each country must first be state and national interests and the state of Serbia in this regard should not be any exception. At the end of the NATO aggression, I had to leave my native Gjilane, and I personally felt that it seemed to run out of my property overnight. Ask my Gjilans and other citizens of Serbian nationality what they think of this. Ask them if Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and you will get an unequivocal response. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia under Resolution 1244. So I ask you to think carefully about my amendment and make the only possible decision. By accepting this amendment, it is best to protect the state and national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70068	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70069	Thank you. The paper in our legislation is this very law on hydrographic activity, which for the first time detailedly regulates the conditions and methods of measuring water streams, the necessary qualifications and the human potential of legal persons to deal with measurement, but also the opportunity to determine in the right way what we have in mind when it comes to our country's hydropotentials. It's just amazing that no one's ever done it before. So, the proposed legislative solutions provide for detailed measurements of all water streams, as well as river and lake bottoms, coastal access, possible navigation, and much more, much more detail that we can use in the future. Also, the fact is that some waterways often change the direction of movement. The rivers pour out, blue households and agricultural land and cause great damage to both the state and the citizens. Since the last few years have worked intensively to build infrastructure through Serbia, I think, first of all, on the highways we've built, which we're about to build, we need to know precisely the terrain with all the details of the construction and the precise data relating to the construction of the waterways next to which the traffic is passing. We will also, among other things, warn for example. and the changes in projects and the implementation of additional works, so hopefully by adopting this bill, we will avoid these possible problems in practice. Given the fact that this law and this law are newspapers in our legal system, this is a good start for both this government and the Ministry show that they also advocate creativity, but also for finding the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70070	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70071	Here I want to point out, this amendment is more technical, but the issues that are important for Serbia's water flow, above all, for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry to date, except indeed, it has to be honest, it speaks of these regular appearances on the Foreign Affairs Committee of Foreign Affairs Minister Ivica Dacic. So far, you have not informed us at all, as the ruling party, that you have formed some interstate Commission with Ustasha Croatian authority, as you have so far moved, because you are well aware that any power to change in Croatia is looking for 10,000 hectares on the left bank of the Danube. What is very important is that we know that in the field of hydrography and not taking advantage of the full capacity of the water flow of rivers in Serbia, primarily Danube and Sava, as well as many lakes, the direct responsibility lies with the government of the Republic of Serbia. They are not people who are registered for the field of nauticalism, first of all, those who have the function of providing tourist services, who are obliged to educate themselves. Why did you put a new director in the Waterway Directorate there? Why do you have the chiefs of administrative districts? What is the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic doing? To help these people put their capacities, and of course with professional and financial assistance, into the use of resources in Serbia. Don't you think it's a large number of people who come to visit the meaningra Uvac and some other destinations, and where those very boats are used to spend both Chinese and tourists around the world coming to our country? (President: Thank you. ) Therefore, the Serbian government has not done enough in this term to make use of this huge potential, which the Republic of Serbia has in various locations, and above all in the Danube and Sava waterway, in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70072	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70073	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to conditions that must be met by legal persons for the conduct of hydrographic diameter affairs on the inland waterways, which is regulated by Article 6 of this Law, we had to intervene because of precision. In fact, we believe that the conditions regarding the technical equipment of measuring devices, material and technical means for the implementation of works that legal persons must meet are prescribed by the Ministry, not by a resolution minister who is in every sense subordinated to the rest of the ministry. We believe that too much jurisdiction has been given to a resorient minister, or too many powers he has and that someone whose name is associated with numerous affairs and whose work has been followed by various scandals should no longer be seated in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to all Serbian citizens that your performance of important state functions is exclusively the will of a foreign factor and that the jobs you do are exclusively in your personal interest, but also in the interests of foreign agents, and not in the interests of Serbian citizens, as it should be. It is necessary for you to resign or resign as soon as possible, or to be replaced, because every day you spend in that post, the minister is executed for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70074	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law on hydrographic activity is compatible with the law that we have previously discussed, which is the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. In fact, this article 10, which I have submitted to the amendment, speaks about port operators, and many of the members of the previous law also talk about it. In this Article 10, it is said that the port operator is obliged to deliver the results of hydrographic measurement in the port area at least once every five years to the Waterway Directorate. I asked the amendment to reduce that deadline and make it three years instead of five years. For that, of course, there are several reasons, because lately there has been significant and pronounced changes in this sphere. It doesn't need to be stressed, because we all remember the huge floods that we had four, five years ago in Obrenovac and a few years later in some other places, then there's a slide, there's erosion, etc. And I think that this deadline should be shortened, because indeed, unfortunately, the changes have been intensified, so this measurement has to be done more often, in order to have the right picture of that situation on the ground. Serbia is not the Netherlands where it has been for years, and even centuries ago, it has all the data in this area. It's just that here still, I don't want to blame this government, but the previous governments, we don't have the right picture of what's going on here in hydrography, and this is a whole new law. It's not bad that it's brought, but it's got to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70076	Thank you. Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70077	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 12 of this Bill proposal, where I have requested the removal of the said member for the reason that the ban on scanning and multiplying navigation cards loses meaning in the age of information technologies, and where everything is available on the Internet anyway. This small law of only 24 members aims to regulate the legal framework for carrying out hydrographic activity that has not been established so far, i.e. He wasn't legally regulated. This is an interesting area dealing with measuring, describing the physical characteristics of rivers and lakes, and in order to safely sail on the waterways, including support for all navigation activities, economic development, security, scientific research and environmental protection. There are collection of data from hydrography, cartography, sailing, riverbed geology and publishing and maintenance of navigation maps, publications and the like. In order to implement modern systems in this area, it is envisaged that the Water Roads Directorate shall establish a management of a central hydrographic database, as well as an integrated information system that will perform hydrographic activities, exchange data of importance for the safety of navigation, environmental protection and exploitation of water resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70078	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70079	This Article 15 speaks of responsibilities in this area, and among other things, it states that some things are in the jurisdiction of the Republic, some things in the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province and some things in the jurisdiction of local self-government and now not to mention what this is about. If the text is carefully read, then these things are in the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. I asked for an autonomous correction, which is essentially not just a lexican, but is essential that instead of an autonomous province, it stands for autonomous provinces. The text of the law unequivocally concludes that there is only one province, meaning it is a single province. Literally, this law is initially exempted from the AP Kosovo and Metohija territory. That's why I asked for this. It's just that the law has to be respected. This was said by my colleague Filip Stojanovic, who was born and raised downstairs in Kosovo and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the ministries must not in any way exempt Kosovo and Metohija from this area, but any law that is passed must be precise and clear, that all this applies to the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. However, since it is the ministry led by Mrs. Mihajlovic, I am not surprised by such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70080	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70081	Well, we go all the way from area to area, that is, from the draft amending and supplementing the law to the proposal, and we make sure that this is a folirant job doing a resolute ministry. This, which is the holder of this transparency, has now set out at the end of the mandate to bring changes and additions that will regulate the obligation to record and measure river waterways and regulate traffic. Seven years does nothing but show up on TV in the latest models, with creators, with all those scythists, and then now we're here to discuss something that... I can give you something to hold your hands rather than bother you, that would be good for you. You could use it. We have the holders we Serbian radicals, as Serbian nationalists checked out the good ones, so you don't have to torture yourself. What's very important here, it's that at the height of the penalty when it goes, then the fines are drastically prescribed, and in the area of jurisdiction of Luke Sremska Mitrovica, you have total chaos, Javaljuk, mildly put to life. No one moves a finger from the fact that no riverbed is known to any state, to the point where sand, gravel and everything is applied, literally wildly extracted, streams change, crusts change, shapes change. The Sremska side knows that, counterpart Mijatovic, she is otherwise quite vulnerable to say, she is quite shrewd, prone to skating and nothing at all. It is now proposed that those who do not comply with the law and instructions of the ministry with 150,000 will be punished. In this impoverished poor Serbia, there is nothing more to do than punish people with high sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70082	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70083	Mrs. Mihajlovic... (Milorad Mircic: Ask the minister if she needs a holder, should I give it to her now?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm interrupting the session. I'm setting a five-minute break. These are completely abnormal working conditions. We'll see what we can do next.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70085	We'll continue with further work. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70086	Mrs. Mihajlovic, in a people better known as one of the five million or outgoing ministers, this problem proposed by this bill was supposed to be on the agenda, but to be much earlier, but we will not now, of course, expect it from you. There are several reasons why this area should have been dealt with by law earlier, as Belgrade is not the only city on the water. We on the Drina River, a beautiful, European beautiful and worldly beautiful river, have countless objects that have been erected and no one cares and cares about removing it, so before the Drina River serves as a source of drinking water for many citizens on the part. It didn't occur to you to decide. It didn't occur to you to solve, we repeatedly asked the question when some houses, buildings, Tomislav Nikolic would be removed from Sava. But here we have proposed an amendment which should essentially be accepted, because given the importance of this matter, these problems, we have proposed this deadline from three years to two years, and this should be quite acceptable, perhaps if the intentions are good, this should end in a year. Given what rivers and waters mean and how important this hydrographic activity is, this amendment should have been accepted without any dilemma. However, we understand why you will not do so. Nothing, just keep going, so you probably won't get far. A large number of people who were interested in getting involved in this matter, above all representatives of the "Vojvodina Water Leader", public enterprises in the water area were interested in including this, to make their full contribution in a professional and any other sense. You, I don't think you've seen enough of this, weren't ready to accept it, and that this problem is solved in an incomparably better way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70087	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, another minute and 18 seconds from the remaining time of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70088	Thank you, Chairman. Here we could hear about deposits of gravel and sand on our rivers, and I wanted to say, according to the Ministry of Construction's estimates, on the basis of the cargo of goods in illegal places, the annual loss is about two million euros, of which 30% or 600,000 euros of this amount is the loss of budget, and 70% and 400,000 euros in loss of port operators only on the basis of unpaid port taxis and re-loading fees. The construction ministry has taken the following steps. It has identified all illegal locations on rivers where gray trade took place, a total of 147 illegal gravel dumps and songs identified on the banks of Danube, Sava and Tise. 30 illegal cargo stations have been closed. In addition, in co-operation with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the City of Belgrade, a city decision has been made to set up temporary deposits of gravel and sand on the territory of the city of Belgrade, which envisions that temporary deposits of gravel and sand be made possible at 14 locations instead of the current 54. At the end of a six-year transition period and these 14 locations will have to be relocated to... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70089	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want the word%? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70090	This amendment is, I would say, a formal legal nature. Otherwise, we submit such amendments to draw attention to the unnecessary introduction into the law of such formulations. But the essence of this law and the essence of what's happening in air traffic is all that happens to our national air carrier, and then beyond that, every day nothing, with the question of how cheap it is or how not worth it. You know, it's not enough just to brag, say – we're opening this airport, we're opening that airport, we're investing a lot of money, but how long does it take to achieve some effect? You're the last one to open up as Morava Airport at the King's. There's only one flight from that airport. There's a joke about people around the airport, they say -- oh, what they did to us, we can't close our eyes, but not from flying, flying planes, but expectations when your planes will fly more. You've invested a huge amount of money, and we've been asking you this question of our own time and you've never delivered us an agreement, because there was no need at all to extend the annual flight path at this airport because it met all the conditions. We had all the technical conditions at the time, and that's the original of the boing that the conditions need to meet some runways so that such planes would land there and that they could stay there. Of course, you don't care, instead of investing this much money in agriculture in the territory of the Kingdom municipality and if it really had any effect on that, you'd probably invest 155 million needlessly. Without that 155 million, you could have released this one line, which exists, from that airport Morava, and not to say that the same airport was opened by Dragan Sutanovac, and then you opened it. Nothing has changed today and you are announcing other airports, and you have not yet made all the details available for "Er Serbia". We have been telling you for years that this is one of the most corrupt jobs and the most economically invaluable job for the Republic of Serbia. You are trying so at conferences to portray it as something Serbia should benefit from, but unfortunately the data is deadly and the data shows that it is also one of the very bad, or harmful jobs for our national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70091	Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70092	For the most part, the surface of Morava airport is in the Attar of the village of Katrga, where my father is and where Jovanovici live, therefore, my close relatives, my brothers-in-laws, my daughters-in-laws and their children. The family house of my family and the property is located 800 meters from the Morava airport. When the airport started to work, when the pompous flight with difficulties and fog started that morning, the teams of various televisions left to ask the locals first of all, my village, what good would that do? They said many of these people don't have passports. Many of them are devasted agricultural production, many of them do not have a fertile land, a irrigation system because they deal with vegetables, and Zorana Mihajlovic, who has tailored herself a wardrobe of tens of thousands of euros, is probably laughing at these people and peasants from my village of Katrg and the surrounding villages and says – it will be a kargo center when we build a sea corridor, so people will be able to place their products. Now I ask you, do you know how an average household in the vicinity of that airport lives? If you want to do the profession, and airports and commercial flights are related to tourism and the arrival or departure of people, have you done before, you constantly target Mrs. Mihajlović with some figures. You say there will be 20,000 flights in this year, and then 15,000 flights, so gather around and tell the MPs and the public if you've made a clearer elaborate on the cost of that airport?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70093	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 4 refers to Article 49 of the basic law, since it is a matter of amending and supplementing the Law and it speaks of the concept of services and informing aircraft during the summer. I asked the amendment to specify this in a better and more precise way to define it, because it is not necessary to stress at all what an important area it is. God forbid one mistake here and that's it. So the point of the amendment was to define this in a better and more precise way, that there was no more dilemma. We've seen despite all the measures we've taken, unfortunately, they always happen around the world in some accident. We almost had a tragedy where basketball player Bryant died and it really rocked the whole world. It is simply necessary to take all possible actions and possible potentials to eliminate and some possible consequences. As for air traffic itself, as a man who comes from Nis, I must say that the situation at the airport is something better than it was, however, there is much more to be done. The bats are pleased that JP "Serbia Airport" is based in Nis, but a lot of people have called me and contacted me to open some more lines from Nis, for example. like the Nis-Moscow line, Nis-Sankt Petersburg, Nis-Tel Aviv etc, because there really are interests in such lines. I was from this pay phone about half a year ago saying that the Nis-Malt line should be opened and that line was open. So, listen to what's coming from the field and get... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70095	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70096	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 9 relating to Article 132 paragraph 1 where the words "air carrier" are replaced by the words "air carrier". Let me ask you right now, I don't know who cooked this kind of linguistic nonsense? The Serbian language does not know such a term – the carrier, would be a carrier, a prayer, but the Serbian language knows the expression – the carrier. I don't know if you had an expert in that ministry of yours, someone who used to learn the native Serbian language, so probably this, too, so I wonder if this term will be incorporated into the text of the law. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, interventions in terms of changes and additions, concerns eight topics, mass of airspace, services, information of aircraft in flight, certification of air navigation services, as well as medical security at the airport. The other four refer to the security area in a controlled and security area in a restrictive zone of the airport. Which includes a sign of identification, security clearance, security and instructor training in the area of security. Other solutions do not change significantly, but the existing ones improve and edit in a clearer and more detailed way. Generally, some things are centralizing, sharpening, and some things are heading towards facilitating conditions for users... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70097	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 10 speaks of the need to keep a record of aircraft owned by the government service and these aircraft, we all know, used for the transport of government members, heads of state, high state delegations, above all, it can also refer to delegations that come and visit the state of Serbia, and in this respect nothing has to be disputed. However, I have requested an amendment and the essence of my amendment is that the service in this respect keeps strict records, in order to avoid any abuses, and if concluded or entered into such abuses, it is mandatory to get to know the public accordingly. Unfortunately, a few years ago, we had a tragedy with an air carrier from the government, where there was a kind of abuse, and there may have been motives of the most humane, but later it turned out that something was wrong and there was a tragedy, it was the fall of that helicopter a few years ago. Therefore, the point is that strict records must be kept and no one has the right to any abuse, but to strictly comply with the rules and rules in this area, who, when and under what conditions can be transported by state aircraft, or by air vessels. If abuse occurs, it is mandatory to inform the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70099	Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70100	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, have mostly been changed in terms of terminology, i.e. new terms and later provisions in the provision of air space security and management. It is also said that the rules for the enforcement of this law will be passed within 18 months from the date of entry into force of this law. In other words, the essence of the changes is to improve safety, both at the airport itself and in the entire air force. Article 13 of the proposal for a law concerning the intervention of the SRS extends through persons who fall under air personnel who indirectly affect the safety of air traffic. In such a way as not only do security personnel involve persons who carry out security checks, at the airport, but other persons who carry out security checks, access, surveillance, who are called security persons by common name. There's no area of social activity that's so sensitive and where every kind of security is so much needed, and there can't be bounce or improvisation here, because even a small mistake can't happen, because that's when the consequences are mostly catastrophic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70101	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70102	Article 16 refers to the 188th applicable law and speaks of proof of health skills, so it is said that flight crew, flight controllers, students and flight controllers, cabin staff, as well as security staff should, or may carry out that activity only if they have certain medical checks. The fact is that air traffic is a very risky business activity and therefore needs to be able to be at a satisfactory level at all times. Through changes and additions to this law, you did not take care of certain things that could have been very interesting and interesting, for Serbia, and Serbia once had good competitors in this area, such as members of the sailing departments, motorbikes, parachutes, dragoneering and the like. I, Madam Minister or "one of the 5 million", is surprised by today's response to Dr. Jokic when he asked if there was any possibility that the airport in Divers could be put into operation. Here is a great opportunity to do this as a sporting activity at the airport, but if the tourist potential of our country is properly considered, you also know it, and you could see it from those who use the services and the airport "Nikola Tesla", and other carriers, that tourists from abroad are very happy to visit those destinations whose distance is an hour to an hour drive from where the airport is located. In this context, in this context, the problem of the airport in Ponikva should be resolved rapidly. It would be less used because you might be more emotionally bound to that airport in Tuzla, less would be used by that airport, as much as this one would be put into operation on the Ponykwa.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70103	National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It notes that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70104	Perhaps this is a chance, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the cost of these airports that appear in recent times. It is simple to think that Serbian airports are niched like mushrooms after the rain. The airports that were for military purposes are being transformed, in a way, into a civilian, with an explanation that it is for the needs of the economy, that it is for the needs of tourism, that it is for the needs of the population. Now that you look at realistically how capable in Serbia is the financial population that can afford to fly a plane, pay for a ticket and fly somewhere. It's like that story when they took down sanctions, and then they boasted that the sanctions were lifted, and how many people could fly with those planes that didn't interest anyone, but it's a marketing good that every major place in Serbia, possibly a potential candidate to open an airport. What security, what cost-effectiveness, what security, that will be cared for by the Civil Directorate, although there are overlaps when it comes to both the Army and civilians, but no one cares. The Royal Airport, according to all real economic parameters, is not as cost-effective as it is. Now that we start talking to each other, it would cause a certain effect where the local population would feel discriminated against and then tell us what they're denying us. He'll come to know when he finds out it's just a new load. Here's your best example. The sports airport in Cheney near Novi Sad has no conditions to be worth opening for business needs or tourism. No, because it's near Surchin Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70105	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70106	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. With this amendment of mine, I asked for this member to be defined in a different way. It's about the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts. The law is passed by emergency procedure, which is not disputed. Dispute is one other thing, and that is that the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts are unwarrantedly long. That's how the law is made up. You did not predict that the sublaw must be passed within 18 months, which is absolutely inappropriate. What's the reason not to bring it in any shorter, within six months as I asked for my amendment. Perhaps the reason for this is that many high - government officials have come to their academic calling in a suspicious way. Cases of suspected diplomas and suspected PhDs of some state officials have never been resolved. The one who has come to the academic calling in a suspicious way is logically more susceptible and corrupt than the one who has come to that call in a regular manner. At best, he is incapable of doing his job on time and in a valid way. As long as things like this are going to happen, the situation will be what we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70107	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Transport. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the opinion of the promoters and Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70108	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 1. The draft law lays down a condition regarding the financial capacity to be met by a company, another legal person or an entrepreneur. You added this to the condition that it reconciles all tax and business obligations and that it has a certain amount of capital and cash reserves. We have amended this member of the law and your proposed amendments, by asking for the erasure of the proposed text for the reason that it essentially changes nothing compared to the existing law. In fact, since it's traffic laws and traffic infrastructure, I would point to certain problems. These are impact holes on the roads where citizens break their cars, then lack of traffic control ramps, lack of local roads. It's just some of the accumulated problems. Then a frequent asphalt repair where in three years, the asphalt is changed three times. We all know that there are even the biggest thefts, that they're stolen on material, on asphalt bases, and there's a huge amount of money invested that disappears without a trace. So another kind of corruption and crime in your portfolio, Minister Mihajlovic. There is no surveillance, and this is why there is millions of damage on Corridor 11, by decommissioning the support walls, then, the Obrenovac, Ub, Lykovac, Ljig, and by not counting where there was no adequate inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70109	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70110	The question at all is when will passenger traffic organised by carriers in Serbia suffer a complete collapse due to the state's inability to provide these, above all, businesses, adequate labour force, or Serbia at this time lack 5,000 drivers with this category. All those who deal with this economic activity every day are terrified whether one of these drivers will, God forbid, get sick, that something happens to him in the family and simply, the ride stops. I am often a user of such intercity transport and in the end, and some of my acquaintances and friends are owners of such enterprises, people who created and provided for themselves. So, the question arises how is it possible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Minister and the Ministry to praise just how many roads have been built without thanking those people who have their taxes, their efforts, as well as the citizens of Serbia who pay high tolls, who pay registrations for vehicles, here as yours, Mr. Arsic? It's an honor to meet you. Here, as your "C5" is written in, I remember when you bought it yesterday, it went, what, 500, 600,000 kilometers? There are many such colleagues who have cars similar to the age or category. Is it normal for you to pay for your car's cubicity as someone who has now exported the new Restaling C5 from the salon? Of course not. Is it normal that in countries they want to encourage, this very development of infrastructure, because they take from citizens money. You just know who the mantra is to repeat - we've built so much, we've built so much. It was built by citizens of Serbia, those who gave for registration, for toll, for fuel.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70111	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The promoter, the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70112	I just wanted to thank the committee responsible and the promoter for accepting this amendment that I have proposed and which I have asked to delete Article 3. Proposal to amend the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Transport and to maintain Article 56 paragraph 3 of the basic law, for the simple reason that there is a possibility of reciprocity, so that we can get into a situation where our car carriers, that is, transporters who transport passengers abroad, come into a situation that they cannot sell tickets via the Internet. The second reason is that we are trying to get to the smooth traffic of goods, services and capital. I am pleased that Minister Mihajlovic is holding onto himself, not only her, but all the ladies in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not entirely true that Minister Mihajlovic is not building highways, but it is true that Serbia is building them. But it is also true that Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia, has given the SNS trust in the elections and it is also true that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted Alexander Vukic with the elections, so that we are coming to the situation that we, MPs, SNS and Aleksandar Vukic, have given the task and trust to Zorana Mihajlovic, in the position of minister, as resolute minister, are building, that we are building with her and that Aleksandar Vukic, together with her, is building. So, everyone does their part of the job, and that's probably why Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said -- my job is to raise Serbia, floor by floor, step by step, board by plate with you. Thank you for the opportunity to build Serbia's future together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70113	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 3rd Law refers to a member of the 56th existing Law on Transport in Road Traffic. I asked the amendment to add a new position after the 3rd article's position, which would allow the sale of train tickets and other travel documents via the internet to those carriers who do not have a seat on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, I do not know why the government has denied selling these tickets to carriers whose headquarters is not on the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Of course, it should all be done in accordance with the law. The fact is known to everyone that the largest number of carriers, i.e. passengers from Serbia and Serbia, is with Republika Srpska and Montenegro. So, this is how we literally punish our fellow citizens, our countrymen. Why couldn't someone from Podgorica or another place in Montenegro, Kolasin, Mojkovac, on the internet buy a ticket to Belgrade or Belgrade, especially if we see, and we witness what's going on down in Montenegro today, that Serbs in Montenegro are today the most vulnerable people, not only at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but the most vulnerable people in Europe, and they are courageously and heroically, in accordance with their tradition, fighting for their rights, and we hope everyone and we support them to endure it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70115	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70116	This proposal was actually proposed by our colleague Katarina Rakic, but it is certainly from the resort of Zorana Mihajlović and here, we cannot avoid it when we talk about this bill. Some colleagues in power, actually one colleague praised Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, I just have to remind him that his praise is not very long a century. He, a man not long ago, as a member of another party whose mandate he has transferred to the current party, spoke ill of Zorana Mihajlovic, especially as his former party chief Vela Ilic was minister before him. Get people a little reality into what you're doing and what you're saying. What's the problem with transporting passengers in road traffic? There's a lot of problems. But we can't solve the problem that, again, I must say, was induced by Zorana Mihajlovic, which is the problem of Kargo's driver. We had a problem with Jandex, it's kind of arranged, introduced into legal frameworks, but now we have a problem with Cargo. They buy huge quantities, actually a large number of vehicles, they work in Belgrade, some say they work against the law, some work in accordance with the law. She was such a pearly Ana Brnabic when she said they only found a hole in the law, and before that statement only two or three months before she proposed amending the laws adopted here. That problem definitely has to be solved. I'm using every possible transport in Belgrade, and then I'm listening to stories from both sides and thirds. They say Cargo is tied to Anna Brnabic, her brother, that she has a lot of vehicles there. The others say that in the Pink cab partner Zorana Mihajlovic has a lot of vehicles and that it is their personal conflict, and from that personal conflict, the citizens of Belgrade have serious problems that they don't know who they're driving with, or how they're driving and what they believe or not, if two drops of rain fall, you have to ask for a half hour if a taxi, whether Cargo, whether Jandex, is any kind of transportation in Belgrade. On line transportation, on drivers, on the departure of drivers, on the fact that no one thinks that these people are increasing their wages so they can work normally, that these people work 10, 12 hours, which is absolutely illegal, that nobody else in this country is interested, and least-resistant Minister Zoran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70117	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Transport, the amendment of the SRS refers to Article 5 relating to Article 65 of the existing law, the words "30 May" are replaced by the words "June 15th", of course, with the reason that the amendment requires an increase in the time limit for the application for registration and an over-arrangement of driving order in inter-urban transport. In this way, more opportunity will be given to consider and adopt possible objections. As for the transport of passengers in road transport, it increased by 25.5% at the same level as in the first half of last year, with a decline in the volume of work of 5.6%, while, for example, the transport of goods increased in the same period. Although the situation in freight transport is far more complex, because of the complicated procedure, and we know that it is about licences, as well as provisions relating to the reduction of compliance deadlines, you have stated that they aim to save time and costs for domestic carriers in public line transport of passengers. This, as far as I can see, is the fifth amendment to the law in a short time, and we've had not long ago the blockade of Belgrade Street by a taxi association due to uncleared relations in the area of public transportation of passengers. The protests were of that intensity that even the president of the state had to react. Therefore, the SRS considers and advocates that the laws that are passed are much longer and would certainly be much better quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70119	On Article 6 of the amendment, MP Dubravko Bojic, the Proposer, the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill, does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70120	I'm glad for this acceptance of the amendment, but I still have a few sentences to say. I will start the 1968 Vienna Road Traffic Convention, which was adopted to simplify international road traffic and standardise road traffic laws and rules within the signatories. Let me remind you that this Convention is not signed by the United States and Canada. The vast majority of countries have regulated their traffic with a number of rules and a system of signs, traffic signals and rules that are valid in the general sense. However, road traffic is not only made up of rules, it is made up of infrastructure with all roads, loops, bridges and tunnels on which the rules are applied, as well as vehicles that make it all designed. According to application, appearance, speed allowed, the rules applicable to them both in the way and in the construction of roads are divided into highways that have three and more one-way lanes and physically separated directions, then fast roads and other asphalt roads, and these are all those that are not in the category of fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70121	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70122	Article 7. The draft law concerns Article 67. Road transport laws. The proposed amendments to that law shall read as follows: The Ministry shall adopt a solution approving the carrier to amend the timetable until the expiry of the registration order. This is something that in practice rarely or never happens, and if it happens then it points to a certain kind of problem. What could be the problem? The problem is that the line has already become invaluable, it is not profitable, there is no economic justification for the carrier to maintain it, so it is said that it can reduce the number of departures, reduce the number of bus stations, change the name of the line, etc. What the Ministry should have paid attention to and made a certain kind of analysis is that a large number of rural, suburban lines remain, or are being abolished. Carriers can't handle that pace, because they're not economically justified. Local self-government is not always in a position to subsidise the work of these carriers so that citizens of their inhabited areas can come into administrative seats, do a certain job or very often when students go to school in those environments. Furthermore, I couldn't believe it when I almost listened to a story, it looked like an insert from a movie, when a young man, who was 21, got one line in the City Traffic Company in Belgrade, and had never been to Belgrade before, had never lived in Belgrade. Imagine, now that that bus gets into 50, 100 passengers and this one doesn't know what his next bus stop is. It's a very big problem. Is that what you're thinking? You remember that old folk - the road will wish for Turks, right? We'll have, apparently, highways too, we'll have some roads, but they won't have anyone to drive the buses. I don't know if there'll be any passengers, I hope the passengers will be. This should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70123	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski and MP Milorad Mircic. The promoter, the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70124	Dear fellow MPs, watching this footage from the National Assembly several times during the afternoon session, caught the camera at one point by a resolute minister that we could read from our lips how we, the Serbian radicals, were sorely cursed by our mother. You know, it's not nice, it doesn't suit a lady. It's not nice to mention mother or father to anyone. She has a folk, she says. It's not what he said. It's who she's from. In this case, we're not angry, but it shows personality instability. Can you imagine who's running our country? Someone who can't stand the criticism, suddenly starts cursing our mother. My colleague, I'll give you a handle, I've got a good handle, you can... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70125	Comrade Mircic, you will not give to anyone who does not ask of you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70126	Thank you, Chairman. I suggested that this article be 8. The proposal to amend the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport deletes, for a simple reason, because if the verification provided for in Article 87d of Article 2 finds that the taxi carrier has ceased to comply with the conditions regarding the conviction of the driver, which is already prescribed in Article 87d of Article 2. In that case, it would be excluded if, for this reason, a taxi authorisation was lifted. For these reasons, I asked to delete this and thank you for adopting the proposal. As for the criticism of your account, Madam Minister, you know, when someone starts to work, there is always someone who will criticise, there is always an individual or some political group that will bother you with the way you work, there will always be an individual or some political group that will be critically turned towards personal solutions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only to you, but to all ministers, according to Ana Brnabic, prime minister, and even to Alexander Vuk, president of the state. It's all understandable, but no one should dispute the will, no one should question the effort, and especially no one should question what has been achieved in the last seven years, and these are the results that you have achieved. I see no reason for anyone to be against 350km of highways or anyone to be against hospitals, bridges, airports, to be against the fast track of Belgrade – Budapest or plans for the road crossing of Lepenski Vir or for the highway of Belgrade – Sarajevo, for the bridge on Drina or for the fast traffic from Novi Sad to Rumi, Indjija, Šapcu and Loznica, to be against the highways, i.e. roads in the Raška area, Novi Pazar – Tutin or Novi Pazar – Sjenica, if that is the case. (President: I thank you, colleague of Pekarski. I don’t see any reason anyone can be so, I don’t know what word to use, that they can all argue because they have something personal, and it’s evident that someone has something personal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70127	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a total length of 38,000km of road network in Serbia has been relatively well developed, although its quality has been reduced due to lack of investment and insufficient maintenance between 1990 and 2000. On our territory is 792 kilometers of Corridor 10 with its shorts "10B" and "C". About 600m euros are estimated for rehabilitation and road maintenance since 2001. In the traffic accidents in Serbia, 900 people died in 2006, and 18,407 were injured more or less. More than 18,000 people have been killed in Serbia since 1990, and 2266,000 have been injured more easily and more easily. As far as road transport is concerned, it accounts for about 8% of the total number of goods transported in Serbia, i.e. 74% of the total number of passengers transported. Economic operators engaged in road transport and social property are mainly privatised and operate under free competition conditions. As for international road traffic, it operates in the quota regime of bilateral and multilateral permits. Road management is given through Serbia's roads, and a network of municipal roads and streets are run by local self-government units.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70129	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by this amendment to Article 9, I asked for a meeting with the carriers and for the deadline for meeting certain conditions to be increased from three to six months. In fact, we all know today that transporters are in a very difficult situation. There are fewer and fewer passengers, even the largest transporters in the country such as Lasta and Nis Express, are in trouble, not to mention those small ones that have several buses, etc. The main reason is that the number of passengers is getting smaller and the fuel prices and the toll prices already know what they are. When it comes to this law, I thought something would be proposed here about going out to the passengers, when it comes to bus stations, we all know that bus stations charge peron tickets, but nothing is said and nothing is defined as what includes and what goes into the price of that peron map. It would make sense that when you buy a peron map, you enter a bus station to have a toilet service within that service, to those who need it, and to have a tap with, if you don't drink water, but a water fountain when you can wash your hands in summer heat, so you can wash yourself, etc. However, in most bus stations there is no such thing, especially not in these larger cities on bus stations, as it is not in Belgrade, there is neither in Nis, but the charges of peron tickets are charged additionally for these other services, and I don't think there should be a triple penalty for passengers, but it should simply be regulated through one charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70131	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. The proposed government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70132	Thank you, Chairman. I suggested that this article 12 be deleted because it's a logical clue. When we deleted Article 3 then the need to delete or amend Article 169 paragraph 1 paragraph 13 ceased, so there is nothing to add here. This is just a logical lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70133	Thank you. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70134	I was just surprised to hear a few minutes ago that colleagues from the government are proposing an amendment - is deleted. How do they understand what that means now? Before I say anything about this amendment, I have to tell you that you can all look at the "you tab" clip - radicals handed a gift to Zorana Mihajlović. For three minutes and 54 seconds, you can tell exactly that she's gonna see Mommy for us, we'll see. So you can tell exactly. Of course, she said a full curse. When it comes to this member specifically speaking and giving sentences, we have one principled position here when it comes to the range of penalties. Whatever it is, this kind of punishment is always the source of corruption. Even if the minister wasn't someone who was prone to corruption, if he were an honest man, the minister and his employees could be tempted to abuse their function because the range of fines from 300,000 to millions of dinars is simply unacceptable. What does that mean? Who's the one on which to estimate that someone is for the same offense, I don't know, he says -- if he's carrying out a public transport that's forbidden by this law, who's going to estimate that he's supposed to be punished by 300,000 or a million dinars? Someone who's going to get half that money in his pocket to pay a small fine, and then to pay this guy a fine, he's going to stay a good part of the money he won't pay through the penalty. No one can convince us that whenever we have a proposal like this, a range of penalties like this, no one can convince us that it's not the basis for corruption. When it comes to these very high funds, let us immediately remember this Miroljub Jeftic and ask ourselves, whoever takes this money, how much will he give to Zoran? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70135	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70136	I have proposed here in the amendment of Article 14 to replace the point in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and to add words – except for Article 5 of this law, which enters into force on 1 October 2020. This is about the process of harmonising new driving lines that should enter into force on 1 February. Since we're a little late, and then this law will come in, we assume February 8th, then we skipped the deadline for meeting new driving orders. That's all it's about. I wanted to say, since someone said there was nothing to do about maintaining state roads, I wanted to say that 11-stakes are under way, worth over 77 million and the rehabilitation of state roads, which are expected to begin in the first half of 2020. Work on six shares of 130km in length is under way, investment values are over 52.5m euros. The project is under way for five shares, some of which are divided into several sub-divisions over a total length of 287 km, totaling 1.7m euros. So it's still done, and what's said to be out of road maintenance, it's absolutely not standing, and I think we should pay a little attention when we charge, turn around first, read, find out something, and then make a flat-rate statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70137	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the amendment of the Law on Special Conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law on details. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70138	When it comes to this law, which let me translate it briefly, the law on which apartments are built under more favourable conditions for security forces, we, when this law was passed, made our position. In principle, we have nothing against such a law, but we also said then that the number of persons, i.e. professions that should be covered by such a law, must be significantly expanded. We said that in 2018 when the law was passed, and also a year later when the changes were first made, and then we were promised that the government was thinking in that direction and that it would certainly happen. However, it has been two years and nothing is happening on this issue, as not everything that is river-like is not realised when it comes to housing for security forces. There was something going on there, some of the accommodations will, as announced in some cities, be, but it's not even part of what Zorana Mihajlovic here promised us in such a camp, she claimed, there would be this many hundreds, thousands, millions, billions and so on. Of course, it is good to do any of this, but what is promised in the National Assembly and what is promised in public must also be respected. We don't know exactly why this change occurred, the amendment of this law. There are no particularly significant reasons for these changes. Once again, we draw attention to what we have talked about, both times when this law has been discussed, that local self-government, or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, must take care of the location selection, because the fact that someone gets apartments under more favourable conditions, those apartments buy, has not been resolved for decades. Anyone who can afford to pay for that war will accept that, but certainly these people don't deserve to be in some kind of ghetto, but they should be in apartments, in buildings where other citizens buy apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70139	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70140	Of the 216 apartments for which there will be opportunities and to be built in Kragujevac on the location of Denina hill, 139 security forces have so far registered. So, this interest and the announcement of Minister Mihajlovic was not so pompous, and if that number is filled, the problem is great because of the location being reluctantly accepted by SNS committees in Kragujevac, but that is how the current mayor conditioned them, because your coalition partners in Kragujevac know very well that there is really no tenth part there, if you were on the ground, but the Kragujevci know it well, the necessary infrastructure. Additional infrastructure, fellow MPs, will cost tens of millions of euros. Believe me. It's completely one, it's not a location in Belgrade, although here it's really problematic from the point of view of what Radeta's colleague said, that people live in some ghettos, or that security forces are only in that one place right now. When we're making up a new part of the city, we call it the airport, because sometimes someone else used it for those purposes in the city, one housing block, of course they could have chosen people who worked in the military and the police and other state authorities, the possibility to settle there, but something like this amazing, and on the other hand you didn't even send out the reactions of all the other employees, even though we were about to give more money to both the military and the police and the doctors and the scientists and all the others you didn't allow under these conditions... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70141	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70142	Here, this shift intervenes when it comes to the flooring of objects, because it was up to six floors, now it is increasing to eight floors, plus a attic, or a mansard. And that's good. It is a rational use of both space and construction rational, and it is all good and solving these housing problems, as Serbian radicals have repeatedly pointed out, we have advocated to expand it to other services. Yeah, let's say that this is how young doctors are tried and this is how we keep them here, young scientists and the government at the end, and the president himself said it would be realized. But what's weird about it? Look, distinguished colleagues, an explanation of this amendment and addition. It's a pure political pamphlet. A political pamphlet that explains the importance of security forces and everything, and does not talk about how rationality, in building and using space, the government has decided to do so. How can a man interpret this? The only logical interpretation is the pre-election campaign, that everyone thinks that the only government and resolute ministry attaches importance, thus increasing the flooring of future buildings in the building. You just can't believe it. Here, when we Serbian radicals speak, we warn, we are not saying that to stop this process of building apartments, not just to have some measure. And, when an explanation is given, it will be for the purpose of these amendments and the addition of laws, not by writing political pamphlets in the form or in the form of arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70143	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law on special procedures for the implementation of construction projects and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a serious law. a legal proposal and a very complicated one, not just in a big name, but in a structure at all. The Serbian Radical believes a new law on the area of construction and urbanism should be passed. We believe that the existing law on expropriation is not a good solution, but it is always valid and should be implemented as such. Projects that ended in 2019, then projects that are under way, as well as those that are planned until 2025, and which will represent one transport functional continent in the area of all modes of road, rail, water and air transport, which will allow for a better integration of the region and the integration of Serbia as a whole. These are bypasses around Belgrade sector B, highway Moravski Corridor, highway Ruma-Shabac, Preljina-Požega, Kuzmin-Rača, then the Forest Corridor "Vozd Karadjordje", bypass around Belgrade road railway, reconstruction of the Novi Sad-Subotic railway line, reconstruction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin railway line, construction of a new Luke Belgrade, construction of a subway in Belgrade, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70145	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70146	Here, you noticed Mrs Damjanovic, what was the intensity of such a reaction by the SRS parliamentary group. We believe that it is absolutely unnecessary to pass specific laws and that one regulated law on expropriation and establishing the public interest of the Republic of Serbia for all infrastructure projects, this way can be different and resolved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We were also against that special law, when it came to determining all the conditions for the Moravia Corridor, because we believe that there should be no such exceptions in the future and that aspect and the price that we dispute, the work that was entrusted to Bechtel and the inability still of the citizens through whose inhabited places, we had the opportunity here to see that map, to pass this Corridor, to know, which are exactly the plots that will be the subject of expropriation. Serbia needs many more, many infrastructure projects. First of all, to make the whole network of roads and to tell colleagues Orlic and all the other colleagues who are here in the O.R., that the SRS is for making, building roads, but also roads that are regional character, roads so-called. First row, such as the road from Novi Pazar to Sjenica, from Ivanjica to Sjenica. You can't put that somewhere in there and say it – if it's going to be in another cycle afterwards, because those people out there who may never or may rarely go on the highway, ask for their problem to be solved, and especially for all those who live on agriculture, I mean all those slopes, the mountains of Golia, I mean the area of Zlatar, I mean the whole move of western Serbia, where and how much more to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70147	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70148	What causes a large reserve is the very fact that these laws, which have and special treatment, appear to be, signing a contract with "Bechtel" and announcing the making of the Moravik Corridor. We've been listening to everything and everything, and so far there's been problems, let's just remember when the government decided less in the same system to make the right path, but to mention Ub-Lig, it went from field to field, because it was negotiated, it talked to the owners, it didn't want to violate that uninterrupted right of ownership, and it made it difficult for the project itself. Here, all of a sudden, a cross-section is made, and everything in the principle of lex specialis is accelerated when it comes to the interest of the state or projects that are of the interest of the state, then it is first built, and the right to appeal for inadequate compensation that was owned by the owners before the construction, or expropriation, and in modern democratic Europe, it will always cause a certain reserve. We Serbian radicals for construction, for construction, but there must still be a border where it must not be crossed or crossed over unbroken property rights. There are previously regulated legal provisions that are the right to prevent construction or the interest of the state or something that has special treatment, but this is after "Bechtella", simply for not to believe. In all the projects, you just make, and then we'll pay the owners. Whether there will be adequate compensation or not, no matter what we care. When it comes to the merger of parcels, the same principle, what is appropriate or what is needed by the current authority, it will also be combined, and what does not correspond, it will be separated. I do, but roughly, it turns out that there will be more and more expressions of self-will.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70149	National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70150	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and to Article 10. The bill of law, we have submitted an amendment asking for an erasure of this member. Namely, the basic reason for this is that for us MPs of the SRS, it is unacceptable to pass such a special law. A member whose erasure we've been looking for, who can be a party to the expropriation process, and when it comes to expropriation, I'll remind you that we recently had this topic on the agenda. I'm talking about that Lex specialism you adopted, and we've been showing you and telling you what's going to happen as a result of one bad law, so I'm going to tell you again. Changes, the purpose of land from building to agricultural land, which is much cheaper, and thus citizens get far less money than they should get for their land. So, in a completely illegal way, you treat land expropriation and citizens are visibly dissatisfied with the price offered and it can be concluded that in this way a large number of Serbian citizens have been damaged and robbed. Then, problems in the part of the Moravia stream where a large number of parcels disappeared because of the theft of sand and gravel. As we can see, all the problems that obviously the Resort Minister is either not capable or not fit to solve, because her personal interest is above all else.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70151	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70152	Someone in the debate on amendments to some of the earlier laws in today's day said that we are a small country, that we have to endure something. We are a small country, but the citizens of this country are proud and should remain that way. I must remind you that when you came to power, it is well known how you came, that the yellows stole and robbed everything that was taken. And there was Zorana. And did she, too? I trust you all, so I believe that. You promised to fight crime and corruption, the citizens of Serbia expected it, and that is why they gave you support, not which you later managed to provide, because it was important in that moment. Of that, in the first phase of your rule, there was nothing, even the fight against corruption was never honest and real, but certain things went forward. With such bill proposals, respected colleagues, you can expect this popularity in the people of Serbia to stop growing very quickly. I look at this as a graduate lawyer, a colleague and you agree, as a longtime judge, you know this really doesn't look like anything. If a man would take a reading, he'd get the impression that Serbia is a banana state, because look here, there's something threatening here, fellow Rancic, in health institutions there are some interventions in hours, sometimes on days. Here in this Article 12, if there is a public interest in the determination of expropriation, then the user of the expropriation is obliged to deliver all evidence in addition within three days, and then this body that conducts this procedure is obliged to review it, so if something is missing that within three days he requests it. Then when it's all complete, the expropriation authority, in this special way, not in the regular expropriation procedure, then he's obliged to deliver the immobiliser further for five days to declare himself, so if there are any shortcomings, then he'll schedule a hearing within three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70153	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70154	When we spoke two days ago in the principle debate and this law and when I mentioned the problem of expropriation in Batocina, Zorana Mihajlovic said that I am not telling the truth, but people from Batocina appeared. They say it is true that there are almost new houses, which are about 80 centimeters away from the Batocina highway – Kragujevac, but that these houses will not be torn down, that these people will have to turn the entrance to the other side of the road, and how they will live next to the highway that nobody lives. But something else is happening in Batocina at the same time. In Batocina, an expropriation of a number of local officials' houses, municipal officials, was carried out. Houses that are 50 metres away from that road where they are still living, where they will continue to live, and these officials have received almost 500,000 euros for those houses. There were also arrests and only when Zorana Mihajlovic was with those officials there on the tour. Right after she left, some people were arrested. So, it's not good what you do, like it's not good that you're in expropriation, that you take in expropriation, that you own people before you pay the fee. You, put down that transparency. She's a minister, and you're just an officer. Put that banner down and do it now. Mr. Arsic, please, if you can't get Zorana Mihajlović to do anything, then tell this creature to lower the transparency. This really crosses all the limits of normal behavior. (Katarina Rakic: Explain what this creature is? ) The fact that Zorana Mihajlović, by a similar law, will steal 300m euros from Bechtel, cannot correct what she wrote - a radical lie and what she keeps here to see. Please, Mr. Arsic, intervene to get this out of the way. Don't let us take away again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70155	Please remove it, or lower it, your political position if you have asked it to be visible. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party speak out loud. A colleague finished the presentation, so please... Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's one thing, at the very least, a strange law for which only Zorana Mihajovic knows why he was brought in. Although we of the SRS have seen through her intention, and this best shows the anxiety she has here to the MPs. In fact, this law is strange of its own name. The law in the name has exactly 20 words. If we know that the average Serbian sentence has four to five words, then this is a law of four, five sentences and I guarantee that none of the MPs present here in the hall can repeat the title of this law without reading. I admit I can't, and if there are any who can, I really admire them, and I believe there aren't that many. No wonder Zorana Mihajlovic acts like this. Because of her, we missed today, we broke the Rules of Procedure, we're sitting at 10.00 hours without a break, so that she can provoke here and conduct her whim thanks to the protection of someone she has, and about everyone knows who her friends are in this country and I'm asking Mr. Arsic to interrupt this session, and that the minister has some obligations tomorrow private, or some other kind, that's her problem. I'll remind you, the minister literally translates as a servant. So the minister is a servant of the people. The MPs are representatives of the people and the treatment of the MPs is indeed inappropriate. This kind of provoking with this transparency and resisting the MPs of the SRS is something that is inadmissible and I would end up with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70157	None of it, counterpart Savic, nor Minister Zorana Mihajlovic insisted that we continue to work, we already have obligations to finish this debate as soon as possible. As you know, we have a special session tomorrow according to the Rules of Procedure, so I expect that on Friday we will finish the second debate in the particulars that are scheduled, so that we may be able to vote on the laws that we are now discussing. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović here.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70158	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The draft law on special procedures for the implementation of the project of construction and reconstruction of liner, infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. This amendment I asked for this member, like the other members of the law, to be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party's stance to enforce such a law is inconclusive. The amendment is in line with the position of the Serbian Radical Party and it is unacceptable to pass such a special law. All the jobs of this bill on expropriation and others, so it is necessary to finally, after twenty years, to build a systematic law in the area of construction and urbanism. The amendment of this article will not contribute to the improvement of this law. The law is basically bad, which is why I asked my amendment to delete this article, because it is necessary to pass a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70159	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must say that I'm really tired, since I've been in the National Assembly since six o'clock this morning, writing these huge amendments. As you have stated, this law defines effective procedures, so that citizens get roads, railways, airports and water ports as well as communal infrastructure as soon as possible, helping to develop Serbia evenly, even if it stands on paper as well. My colleagues here talked about the dissatisfaction of citizens with the price and relationship for their plots. As you can see, here praises the project of parceling and preparation through the implementation of procedures in Catastra until the very process of expropriation that is long for roads and railways, because thousands of parcels are built which are not purely legal property solved or are not listed in Katastar or are to be displaced into the population. Then, appeal solutions for enrolment in Katastar or expropriation solution. I will underline once again the view of the SRS that it is unacceptable to repeat, to pass such a law, because all the jobs in this proposal are already contained in other laws, such as the Expropriation Act and others, so it is unnecessary to approach one serious, comprehensive law for this area after two decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70161	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70162	We could see it now in the press today, but we heard in person from Zorana Mihajlovic that she is talking about a new project that needs to be built in Serbia, which she will certainly not build in this place in the future government, but also that she does not know what it will look like. It is about the new Project "Vozd Karajordje". We all know that the water was a brave and determined man and that, of course, when he left with the rebels to free Serbia he knew what his goal was. And we have a minister who says, yes, it may be a combination of highways and roads that would have a second category of first row road or how through part of Serbia and through a part of the Forest that doesn't know what it looks like yet. First of all, we have to tell you that what one colleague from another party mentioned today is very important. You should have, you had a lot of money, at the Ministry to do a complete reconstruction of the stock of the road from Topola to Kragujevac by now. Because of the fact that any delay in doing so is dangerous, people avoid using the highway, many of them, for reasons, above all, that they are cheaper to go through Topola, shorter, of course, and many of them because of the jobs that connect those two places. We've heard a lot about that if you decide on this variant, and we've heard it first of all from Alexander Vukic and from you, to combine the industrial complex of the Simens factory with the Corridor, which is basically a good idea, but you can't leave one whole part of the Woodland uncovered and ignore the fact that however, Kragujevac is a place to be covered by a future highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70163	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70164	There is no direct TV transmission, there is a question of what the purpose of this debate is to lead to in parliament, as this will be broadcast in delayed transmission, but it does not matter, it will remain written, recorded, that in this meeting, the majority of the debate was simply silent, obediently listening to the representatives of the executive government, even the one who runs the assembly should not oppose the minister, when the minister showed the index finger, threatened silence. Everything can work, because for unknown reasons it is a newspaper in the work of parliament, executive power commands us who are chosen by the people. But it won't take long. We hope that the elections will show quite something new, new in the sense that they will not have to suffer representatives of the executive government in this way. This is about the special law - lex specialis and everything that was intended for public procurement, by calling the competition, it is now in direct agreement and imagine what a challenge it will be for the current minister when it comes to this way of negotiating certain works. That is what you would say – you give the goat to keep the cabbage, in this case we know who the cabbage is.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70165	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70166	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 27 of this proposal prescribes the process of removing objects, and I would remind you that Serbian radicals have repeatedly prevented the destruction of unfinished private family houses. I would point out that we are primarily in favour of respect of the law, but that there is no justice, legal order and the rule of law in a country where when law is violated, the highest state officials are not struck, and only then are ordinary citizens. No one should collapse in Serbia until three illegal houses of Tomislav Nikolic are collapsed in New Belgrade in a protected Sava River Belt, where any construction is absolutely prohibited. Tomislav Nikolic built his houses on a state-run land that he unlawfully usurped. We are ready to help all citizens and prevent the destruction of any property owned by citizens until the very private facilities of Tomislav Nikolic, which have been erected on state land, collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70167	National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70168	Public transmission of this part of the session isn't that important. This scandal remains of the bill's proposal as a one-time testimony, of a time that resembles more and more than parliamentaryism. Some of the colleagues here, I don't know how many of you there are, my colleague Arsic is sure, remembers the strong conduct of Gordana Komic. And where is she today? She voluntarily decided not to come to this room, but before that she had no right to her own opinion, which would be normal. That's how everything that's done to the others will catch up with you. It's not good. I'm not worried about the outgoing minister. And she thinks these special laws will protect herself for her illegal acts. You, Mrs. "one out of five million" will not be able to get away from the courts of the people, neither you nor anyone else. I recognize these few civil servants who have been since that time right after 2000, and you probably had more freedom. You may enjoy sitting here today, but you've had more freedom with that, I'd say, completely unhuman destroying powers. Do you remember, a few days ago, when he was a Professor? Marko Atlagic said, perhaps I didn't understand you well, Professor, that you had to write a review for some who didn't deserve you to write a review for their work, and that it wasn't their work? You said that when they probably can't repay you anymore. Many fellow MPs today enjoy this pleasure, I don't just know what. This is more and more like a debate, and a team before this bill is on the agenda. One who understands the Serbian state's legal system knows that there are special laws that regulate this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70169	Thank you. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70170	In normal and regulated countries, lex specialities are rare and are actually passed in some cases that are not regulated by any law, and something happens in a country that is so important that it has to be regulated urgently. And such laws of lex specialise in normal and orderly states may have in 10, 20 years barely one, if there are so many. This is where the fashion lex specialis became. Because lex specialis law is the most suitable for stealing, for avoiding public procurement, for thieving of every kind, for stealing land. Lex specialises for "Belgrade on Water", Lex specialises for Preljina – Pojate, Lex specialises for all future subways until I don't know if it's ever been built or if it's been installed here and that map of Aje Jung to drive a methroom. She doesn't care, she has a ticket, the subway doesn't have to. So the passing of a law like this to actually hide something behind it that is not in accordance with the Expansion Act, no one would normally accept. The claim that this is brought in to build some infrastructure facilities faster, etc. It has nothing to do with the truth, and it has nothing to do with the brain. There's a law on expropriation that, truth be told, has certain faults, but these faults should have been corrected long ago, and the one with the faults is better as a system law than the laws that will... It's a good thing everything's written in this law. So, there are no public procurements, you've been making free of charge, the EU has told you that the Law on Public Procurement is no good for you, and then you're recently bringing in new ones, and now you're going to vote for a law that will, in fact, abolish public procurement in the construction of infrastructure facilities, which, of course, means a huge amount of money that will go through your hands, certainly not Zorana Mihajlović, will be someone else in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70171	The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, Veronica Radeta, has now presented here one thesis that this is a kind of Lex specialis and I absolutely trust her as an excellent lawyer. This isn't the first Lex special we bring to this House. Mostly those laws that carry the lex specialis index refer to the ministry to which Zorana Mihajlovic is chaired. There's one problem here, and the problem is that all of these laws are written in conventional terms. So, just, if this is gonna be what, if this is gonna be it. If that's the case, there's really a question of why a law like this was even written and passed. I would rather have this condicional, or if it were, to refer to Zorana Mihajlovic, and if she does not give God to be a minister, and we all believe that there will be no more ministers in the next government after the elections that will be soon, so that perhaps this ministry will be reached by someone who is still a little more sober and rational about these things and that this law will put an ad act in place and, if necessary, to the real situation, assess what needs to be accepted, what should not and lead to one harmony with the reality and what corresponds to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70173	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our position on this legislative proposal of the most complicated and massive title since I've been in this House has been known not to repeat myself. It is particularly important to underline the fact that a special law for the implementation of the construction project Moravia Corridor achieved the expected results in a very short period of time, so it logically influenced the adoption of a new law for the construction of all line infrastructure facilities. The complexity of line infrastructure projects clearly indicates that it is highly complex and demanding projects in terms of planning, preparation, technical documentation, funding, as well as realisation. By passing such a law, it will enable and contribute to the completion of the preparation and implementation of these projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70175	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70176	In addition to being a lex specialis, this is indeed one of the papazians of the law, because the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, of expropriation and many others are contained in this text, which has such ridiculously written legal norms which, as fellow Savic said, are also clumsyly written in the Condicional and because of the fact that what we have been saying here is now revealed. I'm going to speak to Mr. Orlic again, who's probably in a hurry, so he's not in the mood for replicas. We claimed a month ago and a few days ago that the whole Bechtel business had been set up since the beginning for a known company, for political, above all, reasons. Bechtel is a company that also has close ties to the Republican American administration. Mr. Marinkovic was also informed that William Casey, former director of the CIA, as well as Videberg, who was the chief military strategist of the US administration, the people who had the greatest influence in the company and that, as they say, if Vlasi had failed, had avoided all the procedures, as prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, first the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Memorandum of Understanding on Infrastructure Projects with America, and in the presence of Kyle Scott and seven days later, was Zoran Mihajlovic, when Scott said that Kosovo was independent and when she was standing next to him, she also signed with Bechtel's Memorandum on Strategic Project. Bechtel is a company that builds and works only where there are political ties. They've been subscribed everywhere. We've already talked about it, but I'll continue, because I have two, three amendments left.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70177	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70178	Based on the fact that we're comparing some things, since this is about a special law where a lot of it will be taken away from the public's eyes. You, gentlemen, have assured us here that the real price paid for the construction of the Moravia Corridor, you have said that 800 million starting prices are quite realistic and there is nothing unclear there, that it is so transparent that we are also advocating it when it comes to the region. Meanwhile, the other day, they announced that a protocol was signed with the Chinese company on the construction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin road -- Novi Sad. The length of these highways is about the same or approximately, it's not a big difference that we could say now – it's such a difference, so that price difference came from the length of the highway. This highway is 110km from Belgrade, Zrenjanin to Novi Sad. This Moravia corridor is 112 or 115. Now look, 600 million are planned to cost the construction of this highway, Belgrade – Zrenjanin – Novi Sad, and here 800 million. So now, what's the question? The question is, well, isn't digitization in the Moravia Corridor making that difference to 200 million? If digitization is there, why didn't you digitize it here? What are the deprived Zrenjanis or Novosadjans not to have a digital highway? No, you're getting involved. You're in the middle of events. You think you'll fool the public, you'll easily do it with radicals, but the events of you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70179	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70180	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 42. The bill sets out criteria for selecting a strategic partner for construction and reconstruction projects. We've also deleted this member, but I need to look at the choice of partners for the construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway, which connects Corridors 10 and 11. Although, besides Bechtel, one Chinese company was interested, Bechtel was elected, as the US's intention to push off all competitors from the east from major projects in Serbia is obvious. With the lobbying of Zorana Mihajlovic and Kyle Scott, this firm has succeeded in achieving its interest sphere and financial benefit. In fact, it is clear that this job has been set up and all of this could have been done for a much lower amount than the agreed one. However, due to current Minister Mihajlovic's interest, Bechtel gains 300m euros from the budget. I'll remind you that just for those 300 million could have been built over eight and a half thousand apartments, 70 square meters, and at 500 euros for young couples, scientists, doctors, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70181	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70182	This bill puts a few laws out of force. Of course, he puts it not in the case of Serbian citizens, but in the case of untouchables. Those untouchable do not believe that they draw strength from the will of the people, nor even from the support of the President of the Republic, but, of course, some others, to whom certain jobs are given and assigned. How do you avoid regular procedures here, related to expropriation? It's not enough. A step further should be taken here and public procurement procedures avoided. Here it is prescribed in one part of this law a special procedure for selecting a strategic partner. So, the government can, in the event that it decides and assesses the need to reach a strategic partner, empower a commission to review all the applications received and then propose to the government who it will choose as a strategic partner, or as performer of certain works. Now if you Serbian radicals ask us if we think they need modern roads, modern railways, waterways and everything else, if they need -- they need it. Is that supposed to have its normal procedure -- well, of course. In the last month, in the last few months, is it necessary to avoid regular procedures? This is where we ask the question and guarantees of private property. Surely, when such a law is applied, when it comes into force and applies, private property will not be protected. And you've passed some laws under pressure, I can't remember now, I think it was the DOS government, but you've accepted it, about restoring property, where once an injustice can only be solved by creating another wrong. You're getting into something that doesn't have to, and I don't know who put the fire in your hands, so now you have to do something quick, to do harm to your own citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70183	Thank you. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70184	This bill provides projects of particular importance, defines them as something special, which is actually the basis for avoiding regular procedures, the basis for abuse of basic laws, above all the Expropriation Act, and based on this lex specialis, the minister will declare whenever she comes to her senses, something that is of particular importance, and whenever she advances to know who the contractor will be, for which amount of money these works will be done. So what has already been agreed in advance will be covered by this formulation of a project of special importance. That's what happened with Bechtel. For a year and a half before the Bechtel contract was concluded, we claimed that Bechtel would receive the job for 800m euros and that it was 300m euros more than anyone else would do, i.e. a concrete Chinese firm. You've been pulling our eyes out claiming that we're making it up, that it has nothing to do with the truth, that it's not going to happen. When it happened, you all rolled up your tail and nobody would react when we talked about it. So you're passing a law, dear colleagues, which will make a bigger thief of the minister, because the law will be the one behind which she will be able to hide if she happens to be a minister who will apply this law in some future period, although this is as short a time as there is until the end of the term of office of this government quite enough for a series of abuses that you will actually serve with this law. I really recommend you, fellow lawyers, take a good look at what it says here, and explain it to your other colleagues. It's bad, it's bad for the country, it's harmful for the Republic of Serbia's budget, it'll cause a series of abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70185	The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Lex specialis, as I call this law, predicts, or here in this text, what is to be done by those funds that are intended for this purpose. Approximately, when we look at one of Serbia's territorial maps, most of Serbia is covered, except for southeast Serbia. Now, if finally, after who knows how long, this Corridor 10, the southern and eastern arms of Corridor 10, does not mean that this region should absolutely be neglected. Let's just get the pyrot and the pyrot environment. Pirot is one of the largest territorial municipalities in Serbia, if not the largest, and from the point of view of the natural environment, it is convincingly the most beautiful environment in all of Serbia. There's the Old Mountain. I know that the local government of Pirota was doing something from its domain, related to connecting the highway to the Old Mountain, that is, Babi's tooth, and that would be the shortest link, for some 20-25 km shorter than the present road over the Srlig and the turret part of the municipality. I don't see here in this law that such a thing is foreseen, and I think it should stand. Because we're gonna miss that highway if we don't connect our natural beauty to that highway and get to it in the easiest and fastest way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70187	Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70188	So, here and around each amendment are essentially the same reasons why we have submitted the amendments and why we think that this law cannot exist in our legal system. In addition to what I was already talking about, there is another dangerous trap in this law, and these are particularly cases of urgency and threat to the realization of a particular project. So whenever someone comes to mind who's going to participate in some of these projects, you don't know which one, so much as someone might say that this isn't a Lex specialis, because it doesn't know exactly what works and what investment works are related to, but a team worse than that can appear any minute somewhere who's going to say it's an emergency, that there's a particular threat to the realisation of a project. It's something that's unproven, which can't be supported by any arguments, but it'll be a reason to close the deal. The big money is at stake, these huge investments that the Prime Minister and the president of the state have presented, and even if it's not all realised, if one part of it is realised, it's huge funds. That's why Zorani Mihajlovic thought of providing himself, calculating that he would continue to be a minister, and that under this law he would take a serious part of these funds that are planned in some investments in some five-year-old or I don't know which plan he is, I say, presented to the public. So, we repeat, this is a law that will avoid public procurement. Public procurement was your oath when you took power, that is, in that campaign. Before you came to power you swore – you will arrange public procurement, they will be spared on this new law based on public procurement. I said, you passed the law, you applied it. All the authorities who came here, who filed reports, representatives of all the so-called. The independent authorities, they all told you not to apply the Public Procurement Act, all of you. All the reports here that we discussed had that item and then they made you these Europeans change that law and now you're passing a Lex specialis law that will fully derivate the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70189	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70190	And without the education of this working group that you are predicting by this law, you have chosen Bechtel as your strategic partner for this job, which costs 300m euros more to build the Moravian Corridor. To continue that story from a moment ago, so not only here in Serbia, but after the American destruction of Iraq, the murder of Saddam Hussein and everything they've done to that people, imagine who got the job right there to build and work? ‘Bechtel’. Because American spies are appointed to power and because they have similar connections and lines, as they have at Zorana Mihajlovic. I believe that she was absolutely ready to go to the end of this business and insist on it, and on the other hand, your concern about how you will achieve and what political contacts and how you will be treated by the American administration is your problem and your matter. Again, to return to that Marinkovic-known Truman doctrine that was promoted and held by Americans today, that their system that applied in America was absolutely worthless if they didn't apply it in other countries in the world. By doing so, the US company Bechtel has performed explicitly in the area, as you like to say, of the Western Balkans. Before that and in a part that isn't treated like that. I have to remind the public, because this is now the last member of this law, that a minister in Croatia had to resign because of this and because of the mutilation with Bechtel. We will ask that this law be put out of force in the future assembly of the Assembly, which Zoran will watch, or... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70191	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70192	The SRS parliamentary group now points to certain gaps, lacks of the amendment proposal and the addition of the law in time. Not for the reason that we would make cheap use of their affection before a wide audience, or get those votes, but for the reason that we could say tomorrow – we warned you in time. You know, experience is very valuable. We have a lot of MPs here who have certain experience. We even have an MP who fought against self-will when it comes to the chairmanship and leadership of the Assembly. No one could believe that this personality could at any time be like those he fought against. However, time and events deny the thinking of some who are positive. Overcame, not that word, he decides who is expert, who is not, who speaks within the agenda, who does not speak. It's just surprising. Maybe it's not personal for me, because I'm used to everything and everything in this House. But, look, many of us will be in this House in the next session. The fact that some midwives are keeping an eye on whether the SRS will cross the census or not, don't worry. We hit that criminal Young Dinkic harder, attacked Miroljub Labus since he was importing oil from Syria, Miroljub Labus. You know who his first associate was? The current minister, the one who won't take the holder, so it hurts... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70193	I give you a warning, colleague Mircic. The 50th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70194	I suppose this is the last amendment to this bill and expresses the view of the SRS that this law should never have been passed and we still don't think it should be brought in, because under this law, it will actually formally fall into some form of alleged legal act that will not be, which will actually legalise what is already known and what arrangements have been made with certain banks abroad, with certain companies abroad. We repeat, large amounts of money will be laundered and be robbed right through this law. If you are not afraid, then say - we will not pass this law, we have the Expropriation Act, we have other building regulations, and we will finely expropriate the land under the Expropriation Act, before that determine the general interest. This is how the Government will determine the general interest, this is how the Minister will muddle with various foreign banks, with various foreign contractors, and on this basis he will take money from the budget, from this Investment Fund, and everything under the auspices of these projects of special importance or urgency, etc., which you have provided for by this law that in any serious state, in any serious legal system would never be brought into existence. I'm really surprised, I know some people and in government legislation, I can't believe they're releasing laws like this, that so much is the influence of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, that she's able to break such bad and unconstitutional, after all, laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70195	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law on the register of spatial units and address registers, you have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70196	Well, look. The relation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, I guess, is best seen in this amendment. We predicted here in Article 1 and now I'm not wasting time not to explain it, because there's no point in telling anyone, but we did it to keep track of it. We said that part of the sentence of this Article 1 of all maybe a dozen words should be deleted, because there is no point in being there, because everything that was meant to be said is said in those first five rows of Article 1. But the government says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why erasing this member would violate the reasons and objectives of passing this law. Who asked to delete this member? You're illiterate. You're rude. You're insolent. You're not interested in the National Assembly, you're pushing what you think you should, you don't care what it really means to do what you do. You are Mrs. Mihajlović, I told you today, and I will repeat as many times as it takes, you are the person who nailed the nail in a box of parliamentaryism in the National Assembly today. He boasts about you in his biography with these Western bosses of yours – you say I got them. No vice president can say anything to me, the head of the largest parliamentary group can say anything to me, do whatever I want, I can. And you act this way, but whoever acts by the system “can feel sorry for me” was bitterly repenting, and so will you, believe me. I'm surprised by your associates, there are some serious people and some we know as experts who've been through, they've seen the backs of various ministers, and they'll be left with the men of the profession. I'm surprised they let themselves do something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70197	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70198	The register of spatial units is important for both the state administration and, above all, for the economy and there are many situations where it appears in holes between two populated places for which it is not identified and that is what needs to be settled in many parts of Serbia. In particular, in western Serbia, in mountainous and rural areas, but there are such cases, here also in central Serbia, with me in Šumadia, I believe in some suburban municipalities, the city of Belgrade. Why does it matter? It's important because of the fact that all these planning documents, and above all because of people living in these places, and because of local self-government, have to be arranged to the end. Now, if you were to ask someone, of course, more skilled and some young expert from Orlic's profession, in how many days he could take care of one administrative district, someone who has a valid program for it and someone who doesn't use the resources of the state administration, but some others, maybe he could do it in two weeks, or less. I really don't know, because I don't really understand the details of that part of the job, as far as taking care of it, that way, but in life and practice, I'm telling you, it's really a big problem. Locals of the local community, Rudnik, spoke on several occasions to the local government in Kragujevac, saying that because some of the Rudnička villages, and in some parts of the plots they do not know which private property they belong to, they are looking for because it was an unsupervised administration, in Gornji Milanovac to join the town of Kragujevac, and it has some logic, but the way for it is very long.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70199	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70200	What is essential is that the promoter insists that the names of the streets be determined as soon as possible, that the numbers in those streets be determined, and that there is no one who thinks soundly and who disagrees with it. However, these deadlines simply do not correspond to the reality in which we live. Since this is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, local self-government should do so all through the congregation procedure to bring, and the assembly procedure involves, above all, the appointment of meetings of certain committees and the session of the Assembly, in order to adopt all of this. But it is quite clear that these laws will hardly be applied in this form as proposed by the Proposer, because there will have to be changes, and changes will take place after the election. It is a great pleasure for me personally, that the vice president currently gave me two warnings, and if I remember something from my political career, it will be my greatest success, which I have experienced to the man I have helped most in my life that it is the same and almost the same as Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70201	Well, you helped my colleague, Komic. The National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted the title above Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70202	With pleasure. So that you don't read the amendments that you're not in the mood to settle it, you can see it from this explanation, which is why you didn't accept the amendment. Article 5 The bill reads – data registers of spatial units and address registers are a public part of national infrastructure, geodetic data and are kept in the context of a real estate and water catalogue, in accordance with the law. We in the SRS have suggested to place a point instead of a point, words - in accordance with the law deleted. You do not accept it, and yet in an explanation why you do not accept this amendment, you say – you do not accept for the reason set out for not accepting the amendment to Article 1 and you say – that erasing Article 5 here would be completely pointless. No one suggested that Article 5 be deleted but only this part of the sentence be deleted in accordance with the law. You say there's not an eye, but you're there to explain the bill's exact data of three million 028 thousand, 20 citizens who don't have a home number, and you say there's no street of two million 676 thousand. I don't think it's a good thing to know personally that last year, a large number of local self-governments appointed a Commission to determine the name of the street and squares and that those parts of the job have been dealt with by a large number of local self-governments. The truth is, home numbers on those streets don't exist, but the streets do exist. Maybe some small number of local self-governments didn't finish the job. This is certainly an important fact to know that we have from the security obligations of citizens to the state in tax terms and a number of other obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70203	The 6th Amendment is attended by the MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic in the afternoon. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing that the law of spatial units and the address register is passed, and no one has anything against it, of course, but there's always that -- but. The question now is whether the main motive here is really to settle one thing that needs to be arranged in a way that suits it or what ours would say, is it "if Vlasi doesn't remember"? Let us write down everything and what is used and what is not used, and what is worth and what is not worth, and then share the tax on it. You see, up until maybe a few years ago, taxes on houses, housing units where people live were symbolic. However, from year to year it is increasing, so perhaps it is one of the main reasons why this law is passed. But then let's wait and see what happens in the end. However, there are many problems here. There's one big job where big problems arise and where this job won't be possible to bring it to an end. Here, we saw only through one slow event that took place about a month ago, when all of Serbia was on its feet, waiting for what would happen to little Monica Karimovic from around Nis, where the entire police, the gendarmes, rose in search of it, and thank God, an epilogue happened the way we all expected. But their biggest problem was that the housing units that were abandoned, which had no owners, had owners whose owners they didn't know about, and there are heirs in Serbia who don't know they're the heirs of some housing units. Now, that's the biggest problem, and I don't know how or how the government's gonna deal with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70205	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On page 12, MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the title above Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On page 12, the MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to the title above Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 12 of this bill, where I asked that this abbreviations "AR", replace with the text Address Register. So, I asked that this initial abbreviations be written in a full name and last name, so, address register. The proposal for a law on the register of spatial units is necessary to the address register, because in this area the government is a chaotic state. This is a brand-new law of 40 members. This area was previously governed by three regulations: the Regulation on the Address Register, the Law on the Register of Space Units and the Address Register, which were united in one regulation - the Register of Space Units. The address register was at the Register of Geodesy. There are 55,000 streets in the database, and through the promotion of the Address Register, another 67,308 new streets are foreseen. There are over two million home numbers, we heard a little before from my colleague, Peric, I don't know how credible this information is. While digitisation, we satellite footage of 2015 and 2016 recorded over four million objects that are not listed in the real estate catalogue, three million and 28,020 citizens have registered a place in the streets without a specific home number, of which 2,676,898 citizens are registered at addresses for which no street name is specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70207	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70208	The law that would regulate the register of spatial units is the Address Register, should certainly exist in Serbia, but this bill is bad. This is really written as new. So many abbreviations in the law, nobody's ever seen JLS before, it's a local self-government unit. (Catarina Rakic: Terrible. Well, that's amazing. I don't know what you know, colleague Rakic, but there's nothing like this written in the law anywhere. So, this poorly written law not only in this formal sense, but also essentially this law will not solve the most important things and we have all done it through amendments and said, that follow this problem that has really never been regulated in this way. The provisions we see in this bill as some kind of legal norm, this is nowhere to be found. The legal standard must be concrete, precise, concise and does not allow for a description of a situation such as that in this law. More than half of these members of this bill's proposals are more like an explanation of something that was wanted by this law than is essentially a legal norm, because this really can't be a legal norm. And you're hiding something here, hiding something pretty dangerous. You've also inserted the polling list through these spatial units. The area of the electoral list, gentlemen and everything related to the electoral list cannot be regulated by any other law other than the Law on the Election List. It's very little for you to use copies of the voter lists in your campaign when you go from man to man, but also in this way you're going to abuse and you're going to use this in your future campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70209	The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70210	To get all Serbian citizens an address and the number should have been completed by mid- 2018, then by mid- 2019, and there is still a huge number without home address and number. You know, no one's comfortable with him writing no street and no number, even though the state said that every time he got the street and the number, finally, the state on its cost of issuing documents and replacing documents would execute. This is really amazing, especially because it creates a big problem with Katastra, who is doing extremely badly under the leadership of your Draskovic and because of the fact that you have passed the housing law, so professional managers who usually wander from the building to the building, the streets and seek it, can't even do this job properly without talking about citizens who have a permanent, everyday living environment problem because of it. Who's responsible for this job not being done all the way? What kept you from doing that? You say from the Ministry, the D.A. isn't up-to-date, they didn't do it on time. Was he in the way of work? Here, my colleague Savic mentioned Nis, but there are many other cities in Serbia where it is and how it should be the main job of anyone who cares about citizens. How would you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, feel if you were in such a situation? It is easy for all of you who, when you get out of your buildings, step on asphalt, have built infrastructure, and what can we tell the citizens of Serbia who pay both taxes and contributions and registration without having anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70211	Thank you. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70212	According to us, Serbian radicals have much more priority jobs when it comes to the setting up of populated parts of local self-government. You have not a small number of streets that are only on the territory of the city of Belgrade, which, to this day, have no asphalt, no plumbing, no sewers, not to mention these other cities of Novi Sad, Nis and others. What is alarming is that you have literally ignored for seven years one life issue of the largest population in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The largest number uses invalid drinking water. Your best example is Central Banat, Northern Banat. And for seven years, you've been promising these people, with a reason when they're a single government, we're going to do it. Well, in the past term, the SNS has now had both in the local and regional and the republican authorities one-brave. You didn't do it. No, it's important to start up some of the questions that are being postponed, they've been going on for many years, and now they're being re-adjusted by leaving the impression that they're being taken care of. This debate is coming to an end. Since the resolution minister cited an example that we Serbian radicals are illiterate, we do not read Prevere. There's a song called "Barbara", it could be instructive for a resolute minister because it starts - remembers Barbara. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70213	Thank you, colleague Mircic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70214	Mrs. "one in five million", whatever you've reached in this ministry, it's chaos and disaster. The housing law and the Law on resolving the housing issue of security employees in different ways define what a residential building is. That's what we pointed out when it was on the agenda. And here, and here this article 21, you're using some jargon expressions. You started out well, how and how to determine the number of residential objects, so you defined which one is left, which is on the right side, where it's going and that was a good start, and then you end up saying, if it's a crashed-type settlement. Sometimes it's hard to define something and find the most impoverished expression, but here you are -- a broken-down guy, and then you'll be from the center of JLS's administrative seat. Yeah, it's already been said to be local self-government units. Well, it can do in free speech, it can jargon, it can legal regulations, legal norms don't suffer. Here, and here you have said that the amendment is not accepted for reasons explained for not accepting amendments in Article 1 and you say – the amendment is not accepted, you wrote, the amendment is not accepted for the reason why erasing this article would violate the reasons and objectives of the adoption of this law. None of us suggested that a member be deleted, but to delete this JSL. So, really, one simple regulation doesn't look like you can fix it, you can't fix it. And someone said, colleague Mircic, how far away this Ritopek is from here, they don't have any water. So it's not some periphery there, some remote villages east, south of Serbia, west, here, so the city area has no water and no one cares about it. She doesn't care to take a nice form. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70215	Thank you, colleague Perich. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70216	This article 22 is written so when you read attitude by attitude, it seems as if you are listening to the conversation of two half-drunk men. This is indeed a miracle of God's text. If you really want to edit this area, then this member can't exist at all in this law. How can it be that you want an address register, and you have 100 reasons where you'll have letters? Well, I guess it's starting now to do something at the beginning that's never been done before or that's been done badly. You have to do everything you can to make sure there's no possibility at all of the letter marks in street numbers. Every entrance must have its own address, it must have its own home number, every entry. So that what happened recently in Leskovec, when the executioner missed the entrance, wouldn't happen, would have taken some very valuable things from one family. They couldn't prove it wasn't their entrance, because it wasn't well written. And that's what happened. And it will happen when this law is applied. How can it even be planned that if a building is already built between two buildings, after the number of home numbers has been determined, the number of the first adjacent object between these two numbers will be determined. I don't know if anyone understands now? This is what it says. But how is it possible, if the home number is to be determined for both buildings and construction plots, that's what it says here, and that's basically how it should be done, then how is it possible that the law plans that some building plots will probably be skipped, so it's going to add letters instead of numbers again?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70217	Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70218	Article 22 speaks of a way to identify home numbers in special situations, and this is really a pushover here, and I wouldn't agree with my colleague Verica, no, but exactly the one completely drunk two people talking about this. My colleague Orlic, in England, when they sow grass, they want to build a park. (President: Comrade Peric, no direct address. Excuse me, will you pass on to your colleague Orlic? They sow the grass, let the citizens make where the track is going to be, and then later they arrange that trail. Well, this is Mrs. "one of the five million" someone worked before you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70219	Mr. Pericic, you can think of ministers whatever you want, that's your right, but these ministers were elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, Minister, as you expect to be respected as you sit, at least you have the elemental decency to call someone Mrs. Minister or Minister or Mrs. Mihajlovic, not to give her an ugly nickname. Believe me, for every member of the SNS, it is an insult to say that it belongs to the movement "one of five million", an insult. It may not matter to you, it doesn't matter, but it's an insult. Would you like to continue your discussion, Mr. Perry? You've got another minute. Comrade Mircic, please let Mr. Sret Peric finish his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70220	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I used this prepaid time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70221	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 23(1) and refers to the submission of requests for a home number. It can be said that this amendment is linguistically interesting. In one sentence, one word is repeated several times, which is considered inappropriate, that it is also in simple chat or optional communication, rather than embedded in the text of the law. In the long term application of this law, there was a need to update the names of settlements and cadastrian municipalities for the reason for the existence of word and technical errors that occurred in earlier laws, as a need to bring them into line with the earlier situation on the ground, in terms of the emergence of new or the end of the existence of settlements and catastrian municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no register of dwellings, buildings and an address register in Serbia today, which is not yet complete and up-to-date. After an unnamed street, home numbers are missing, and where they exist, they don't match the records from the register. So much for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70223	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70224	I have a keen desire to read this article, so that you may hear that you have not read the bill of law as to what this looks like. ‘In the cases referred to in Articles 25 and 29 of Sections 1 and 2 of this Act, the residential community, i.e. the owner of the facility, i.e. the lease on the building land of public property on which the facility, i.e. the investor, or the applicant of the claim for the law of the facility, is required to enable JLS... “ I don’t know if it’s some kind of drug ”... the designation of the street and/or marking of the building or building land within the catastrian plot by a home number. “ Now, who can understand what this says on quick reading, I am really taking off my hat. This is the best example of what this law looks like. This is just something amazing. There may have been a good intention to settle this part of life, there is a need, but we claim this law and this law will absolutely not be possible. I don't know, colleague Arsic, what you're nervous about today at the end of the day, you've been in a good mood all day. Just before you let my colleague Mircic quote some song, you didn't mind when Zorana Mihajlovic mentioned Prever.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70225	She's not a colleague. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70226	Allow me, I'm wasting my time. Wait, fellow Arsic, for God's sake, what's the rush, is someone touching you? Tell them we're defending you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70227	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70228	Please don't. Relax. So how is it possible that you don't allow to meet Perić that Zorani Mihajlovic, who doesn't know what she's told us, bothers you that he says she's one of the five million. But it is Arsic, and so are you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70229	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conversion of the right of use to property to the building land with compensation by Members of Parliament. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70230	We, the Serbian radicals, insisted, by adopting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, that the issue of the use of the right to buy out construction land be resolved by a system law that should not be changed. This would provide legal certainty and a legal framework for citizens, as citizens must know that the building land is divided into that building land belonging to that city, i.e. the unit of local self-government and other building land, most often and untegorized in certain parts of the city. Today, however, it is also a big problem for any of the people who have their own houses to have parcels, and when a boasting investor is allowed to do so. Indeed, this government has shown that there are also ways of understanding for all those who have money and the route have come – come on, now we're going to make some salters, to build an unplanned building. You've all traveled around the world. Did you see any giant salters near the Eiffel Tower? You're not. Have you seen them in the narrow center of some other cities? Have you seen any salters near the Acropoly? Did you see that there was a conversion of building land in such cities just to build and build huge capital? Don't play with some things that will remain a mockery for generations to come. Many of you mentioned former mayors of Belgrade and other cities, so as well as the plans worked between the two world wars, after the First World War, where Serbia really had major problems in every sense. You're watching it today... (President: I thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I just wanted to talk about the Fireman and those bright moments of your city's history.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70231	I'm sorry, but you've taken your time. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70232	You, Mr. Arsic, I suppose you remember when a similar law like this was passed that the minister was Oliver Dulic. Then we had a lot of amendments to that bill and one of the amendments was about this particular conversion. I then told Minister Oliver Dulic – Ministers, accept our amendment, this law will cost you your freedom, because of this law you will go to prison. Remember that was the case? He disobeyed and ended up the way he ended up. Of course, I don't want to warn Zoran because I don't care if she goes to jail. This will be a small matter for her in relation to everything she's already earned for prison, but you can't really say, as it's written in this attitude 2, that you're talking about the corresponding right of use. No, it can only be a belonging plot. It can't, because it's the plot where the conversion takes place. You have more, through this law, amendments, but all your colleagues aren't here to talk about these amendments. In fact, you don't have here, just like it was in that Dulic law... You don't know what a plot is, you don't know what a plot belongs to a property. We all know that time-consuming privatisations in 90% of cases have been made precisely because of these parcels. We remember that these boulevard privatisations were such that contracts were made. Based on these contracts, the new owners of these former companies committed themselves... I'll follow the next amendment, because I can see that you're impatient.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70233	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70234	This member is very much talking about this attractive land which was the reason for most privatisations and certainly not to those new owners of this law or any of them should not appear to be a concession. So hundreds of thousands of people are out of work during these barrel criminal privatisations. You promised, though, that 24 privatisations would be resolved and that they would be given a court epilogue. It never happened, but it's no wonder. We're talking about something else here. They were sold and they bought factories with four, five, six thousand employees. People bought them, these new owners, tycoons, because they were interested in getting that location. They concluded contracts where they made a commitment not to change the purpose of the facility in two years. After those two years, no one got fired, no one got paid or got any change. When those two years passed, he no longer had any obligation to those thousands of people who worked in these companies. We today, instead of 5,000 Dragon people, have, I know, Rodu, IDEU, what's there for these malls. We have hotels around Belgrade, not only in Belgrade, in the centres of all the cities in Serbia, because once these significant factories, which were well-run, of which both the state and the people lived, and the factories were in good locations, they were sold out. We are now doing this law a favor to those who have reached these objects. These objects were destroyed, built new or not destroyed, but only upgraded, arranged and now they do not have a specific plot under this law, no parcels needed for normal use of the facility, and that is otherwise an absolutely incomparable term in the building. No, but to determine how much someone will get for conversion and get for free location in centres in the most beautiful places in all the cities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70235	National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70236	It's about the part about the restitution. When it is established that it is, say, a plot object of restitution is suspended. You're playing with fire. We warned you. All that restitution stuff, it's blurry stuff. After so many years, you look to honor your private property, to return it, and on the other hand you take away your unfavorable property. It's just a man can't believe it. It's not worth talking about, it's not worth it for us Serbian radicals to discuss this professionally. When we get to the opportunity, we're going to spend everything we bring to you right now. Maybe that time will come, maybe it won't, nobody knows. But what I want to end. I would like to apologize to my fellow Members if today's debate brought to the bile of bile by the representatives of the executive government. That's what you directly made possible. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the Minister for bringing family to me and my colleagues and colleagues. It may not be appropriate, but we give her a gift...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70237	That's not what happened to my colleague Mircic. Please talk about your amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70238	I'll talk about the amendment. Honestly, I want the best for her family and her father and mother, if they're alive, mine aren't alive, but what do we do, that's how it is. You can't always fight back with the same measure, nor is it our wish. Good luck to you, but we hope that Serbia will no longer have the opportunity to look at you. I hope this is the last performance as minister in front of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70239	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70240	Thank you, Vice President Arsic, ladies and gentlemen. Here at the end of our debate today after 43 years of life I realized that that theory that says "homo hominis lupus est" man to the wolf, that it is actually correct. We could see it today in our Parliament, given the amount of bile, insult in person and on any other plan. This has overcome everything that involves a political debate and a debate between political opponents, however conflicted they are, however different their political options or ideologies are. I find it very ugly that we allowed this today, that we discussed in this way, but in any case, I hope that together with Minister Mihajlovic we will continue to do this job, continue to work for Serbia. I'm sure and it shows all the public opinion research that this option of ours has these so-called so-called. 50 plus 12%, so about 62% of the support headed by Alexander Vukic and that what you have shown this day is really a small, small part of our citizens' support, and we will continue to build and support construction and highways. Just now, a colleague mentioned the construction of a solidter, the construction of some modern buildings. Of course, we are proud of "Belgrade on Water" and Zorana Mihajlovic also signed the contract. You have a few months ago it was built and Washington on the water, it's something like this. Yes, we travel, we watch, we learn and do what the most developed countries do. So in this "Belgrade on Water" now, until the foundation is dug up in a new tower where the hotel "St. Regis," one of the biggest hotel chains in the world. It costs somewhere, as the finance minister, Mr. Mali, has already told me, already costs about 9,000 euros. If that's not a success, if it's not something we've all wanted for decades, for Belgrade, for Serbia to be a country that's very interesting for people who are business, who have money, who have some profit here in our country, for foreigners, for our diaspora people who want to pay so many square meters, then I don't know what success is, and I'm sorry that we haven't talked about how to make and how we do everything to influence the country's evenly and regional development, that Belgrade is an example and that we help as we do, to open a factory and to open up in every, and even in the smallest place in the Republic of Serbia. What do you think, without these people, that without President Vukic, including Minister Mihajlovic, the Jinsi factory in Krupanj, would have "Teklas" in Vladic's Han, have factories in Vranja, Leskovac, Pančevo? 150 factories have been opened over the past few years. I think it's going to cost us this kind of negative approach, this absence of need, or responsibility to come to something. Something that's good, what someone does well, to say, to finally be rational. This rationality and blindness and the emphasis of hostilities on the personal agenda is something that, in my opinion, is very expensive for Serbia. What's my appeal to all my colleagues, to discuss it in an argument, to discuss it on the basis of facts and on the basis of the results that someone achieves. I thought that we had been over the debate a long time ago, which involves personal insults, which involves the private lives of certain people and, after all, we should also be good hosts here. Whether we are representatives of the government or we are representatives of the opposition, we need our guests here, which is the Minister or Vice-President of the Government, the President of the State, when we come with our associates, to be good hosts, and to discuss ideologies and to discuss here, that we are fiercely polymize, with arguments, and not to allow today to bring this debate down to something that is real, I can express myself freely, the devastation of Minister Mihajlović from, now I really cannot rationally explain for what reasons, because no moment did you hear - e, Minister Mihajlović, is not a good highway, it is a bad highway, bad contractors are bad, it is a bad bridge, you misrepresented this country when you went to Moscow, when you went to China, when you went to any foreign country. No, I don't. At least we in parliament follow it. We can be proud when someone leaves, as she does, and it represents a good country in both China and Moscow and the EU and the United States. So we need people of reputation. Unfortunately, we don't have many. If we're going to do what we did today, with the best people we have, I can understand both political differences and everything, but it's not good for our country, no matter how politically and in any other way it's different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70241	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70242	This was a school example of explaining the amendments a little while ago, and I just don't know what you're not letting us speak the same way. He says that today’s conduct in the National Assembly was offensive. I think if someone insulted the National Assembly today, it's the chairman, who's allowed something that's never been allowed before, that the minister is even cursing his mother to the MPs and doing and saying everything he says. But, well, that's your choice, your thing, and we're not going to be the team. You'll all regret it, believe me, very quickly, and you'll be uncomfortable about all this when you find out some things that will definitely happen. This article 8 on which the amendment was submitted, you know what he predicts? It provides for the application of this new position that so far the users will continue to use construction land without compensation. And then you explain that it has nothing to do with Zorana Mihajlovic and the way she's used to doing it. He says we didn't say it-- it's not a good way, it's no good, it's no good. We said everything that wasn't right, how we weren't. We said, it's no good to steal, it's no good to take commissions, it's no good to take money for expropriation, we said it all. But hopefully, dear colleagues, in fact, we're quite certain that this food taster that replaced Scott will not have that much influence and will no longer be in this place where he is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70243	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70244	Let me just say, ladies and gentlemen, that the motionary would not have done anything wrong even if he had accepted the amendment of his colleague Risticevic. But regardless, Mrs. Mihajlovic, all congratulations on the extraordinary results that have been achieved in the portfolio you take care of and all congratulations on the excellent proposals of the law. You see, when you hear for one whole day that the only objections on the subject are anything about the law, not the content of the law, but the fact that someone doesn't love you personally, then it's clear to you that the laws are more than good. So, all the congratulations on that. That is why you will receive support for these proposals from our parliamentary group. And as far as these stories are concerned, you know how, if any of us were to praise one who wasn't good new highways, one who wasn't good housing for security forces, one who wasn't good modernization, or the success of this country, we'd probably be worried if we were doing something wrong. When such ones, you know, everything is done just right and their words to anyone who comes as poisonous and with evil intent directed gestures can only come as a medal. Congratulations on that too, and get on with the good work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70245	The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, although he has promised something.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70246	Very brief, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, we had a chance today to hear a lot of things and a little bit about the law, a little bit about the legal provisions, a little about the essence of the law, a little about what should have been discussed. Unfortunately, anything else that was present in the vocabulary of many MPs is not suitable for this home, it is not appropriate for something that involves democratic confrontation and exchange of views, particularly opportunistic views. Given that in no way should the work of this Assembly be appropriate, we in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group are convinced that, in the course of the work, when it comes to the laws we are discussing, the session will be far, far more appropriate, with a vocabulary that corresponds to something that implies both decency and culture and everything that needs to be depicted by the MP. Given that the set of laws you represent in the Assembly has given certain indicators in terms of quality, we once again highlight the support of one such way and the approach to the normisation of the law, the systematization of the law, and we hope that all future laws will be even better, even more quality than those discussed and we hope that in the future debate on the proposals of the law they expect from us, and we are obliged to meet that expectation, this implies a culture of dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-29-0.u70247	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
