ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 146 MPs present. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 202 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2020, and that is the first point of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 205 MPs voted, for – 202 did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put on the agenda of the session of the emergency proceedings, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 205 MPs voted, for – 202 did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, in general. D n n e d d: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, with his associates, and that: Dr Goran Stamenković, V.d. Assistant Minister of Health, Dr. Spec. Rasa Milanov, from the Ministry of Health and Mirjana Veljkovic, a state official at the Ministry of Health. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, under Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. Does the proposer's representative, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, the health minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u583	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. Please consider this bill another set of measures that the state has taken to control an epidemic of the coronary virus. With this bill, we are forming a legal framework for measures and procedures that we will try to keep the epidemic under control and reduce the adverse effects and consequences of the global pandemic of the coronary virus in the coming period. In line with the above, this proposal for a law in infectious diseases, by categories and specific health issues against which epidemiological surveillance is carried out and against which the prevention and control measures for infectious diseases are applied also included the coronary virus, i.e. Kovid 19, a disease caused by the SARS-KOV-2 virus. A contact category has been introduced, such as persons who are obliged to follow the prescribed measures and instructions set out by the competent doctor of medicine, an epidemiology specialist during the epidemiological study. The Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law defines concepts which are not covered by the original text of the law - countries with an adverse epidemiological situation, personal protection against infection, home isolation, quarantine in domestic conditions; as a special measure for the protection of the population from infectious diseases, in case of emergency, elemental accidents and disasters, outbreaks of infectious disease, the emergence of new or insufficiently known infectious diseases and in case of suspected use of biological agents and others; which may endanger human health and life and where there is a direct risk of mass transmission of infectious diseases are introduced - transport, isolation, home isolation and treatment, health supervision, quarantine and quarantine in domestic conditions and personal protection against infections. The draft law stipulates that the solution to determine the quarantine measure, issued by the sanitary inspector according to the notification of the competent epidemiologist, is a confirmation of the prevention of the work of persons employed while the measure is being carried out, and for which time they are subject to the appropriate remuneration of earnings, i.e. wages in accordance with the law. A measure of restrictions on the movement of users and employees in collective housing is introduced, and the Minister, on a proposal from the Institute, with the consent of the Commission, sets out the types of collectives to which the measures apply, as well as the closer conditions on how they are implemented. It is prescribed that the minister may adopt an act establishing mandatory or recommended immunisation for certain categories of persons if the risk of transmission of infectious disease is identified, as well as in the case of introduction into the country of a specific infectious disease in accordance with the plans for the removal and maintenance of the status of eradication of certain infectious diseases. In order to prevent the introduction of infectious diseases into the country, to prevent and prevent them from being transferred to other countries, the Minister may, on a proposal from the Commission and the Office, order measures to protect the population from infectious diseases and compulsory medical examination, laboratory examination or submission of a report on laboratory examination when entering the country from certain countries in accordance with international health rules. In the event of emergency situations, natural disasters or disasters, outbreaks of infectious disease, the emergence of new or insufficiently known infectious diseases and in case of suspected use of a biological agent and others that may endanger human health and life and where there is a direct risk of mass transmission of infectious diseases, the Government may prohibit, or restrict the entry into the territory of the Republic of Serbia to persons who come from countries with an unfavourable epidemiological situation, decide on the opening of temporary facilities for the accommodation, isolation and treatment of infectious diseases, decide to refer those who suffer from infectious diseases to treatment abroad to fill all available facilities for isolation and treatment in the Republic of Serbia, educate the crisis headquarters and determine other appropriate measures to stop the epidemic. The Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence provide assistance to the Ministry within the limits of their responsibilities in implementing the inspection supervision measures, as well as in implementing other measures prescribed by this law. The financing of the prescribed measures shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. The highly recommended immunisation provided for in Article 32 of this Law can be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with a special act of the Government. The supervision of the application of this law and the rules adopted for its implementation, in addition to the sanitary inspection, as a certified job is carried out by a unit of local self-government through a Community inspection, and in units of local self-government in which the National Police Service is educated, the control of the application of the measures laid down in Article 46 of this Act is also carried out through the Community militia. The Sanitary Inspector, in addition to the powers he has under the Law on Inspection, the Law on Sanitary Control, may establish an infringement order, and the Communal militia, other than the powers it has in accordance with the Law on Municipal Activity, may also require the emptying of the facility, i.e. the space in which the prescribed measures have occurred, to prohibit the exercise of activity in that facility, or space until the competent authority has taken the prescribed measures for 72 hours at most. I must say that the citizens of Serbia know well that we are not meant to punish anyone. Simply, it is clear to all that there is no punishment to punish, for example, a man who knows he has a coronary virus and goes to a coffee shop or a nightclub, a restaurant, but we want to protect these provisions from all those responsible citizens of Serbia, 95% of them, who have been respecting measures for months, wearing masks, avoiding gatherings. They celebrate their children's birthdays in the innermost circle of the family, not celebrating the baptismal glory as it is custom, with their friends, family, but modestly, only with their loved ones. They don't make weddings and weddings how it's right, but intimately, without great celebrations. In one word, they act in harmony with the measures and the current epidemiological situation, and in the best way they care about the health of their parents, the health of their children. Therefore, fines for infringements for natural persons from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars are prescribed in the event of non-compliance with the prescribed measures, as well as if at the border crossing no application to the competent health care authority, or authorities responsible for controlling the crossing of the state border, and if they do not report at the place of stay to the competent institution, or public health institute, in accordance with the approved resolution of the sanitary inspector within 24 hours, they will not report to the institution, or the Institute of Public Health to the place of residence for the purpose of monitoring their health status, refuses or does not comply with quarantine in domestic terms of fines of 300,000 dinars, if they do not take action and activities to apply personal protection measures against infection, as well as if they do not determine the person responsible for direct application of these measures. The infringement of Article 1 will be fined by an entrepreneur with a fine of 150,000 dinars. The person responsible for the offence referred to in Article 1 will be fined in a legal person with a fine of 50,000 dinars. The fine of 30,000 dinars will punish a person responsible for the application of the personal protection measure against infection if they do not provide for the direct application of these measures. The fine of 5,000 dinars will punish a natural person for a violation if he does not adhere to the measure of personal protection against infection aimed at protecting his own and his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/her/his/her/her/his/his/his/her/his/her/her/his/ his/her/her/ his/ his/ his/ his/her/ his/ his/her/ his/ his//////// his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ Dear People's MPs, the Ministry of Health, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic have been doing everything since the start of the epidemic, and even before that, when it became clear that there is a major challenge in the public health sector, that our country feels as little effect in meeting the crown virus and citizens of Serbia, and as we fight the virus as a country and what measures we bring, the best show facts, and the facts show that today the richest and richest countries of Europe, Italy, Spain, Britain, Belgium, France, have 25 to 35 thousand positive ones in one day, and the countries of the region are 40, 50 and more dead. Bosnia and Herzegovina 72, Slovenia 40, Croatia 28, Northern Macedonia 26, Austria 65, Hungary 101, Romania 203 and so on. All these countries would change today with Serbia, all of them would like to have results as Serbia has. That is why, gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that you will be responsible and that in the interest of Serbian citizens, you will support this bill. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u584	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u585	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these measures have been extorted because we do not respect what has been recommended so far, that there are not many people in certain places, that wedding celebrations, baptisms are not made, which is not respected, what the profession said and what is the recommendation. I took this crown seriously maybe by the time I got the crown, but I wasn't scared. However, here today, of the eight MPs from the United Serbia, two have a crown. I don't know from other MP clubs if that's the case, but I ask all those who have certain symptoms, not just here in parliament, but anywhere, not to go to work, because when they go to work... Let me tell you, these are MPs Vojislav Vujic and Slavenko... That's two of our MPs who got the crown. They say they weren't at public gatherings, they weren't hanging out with those who had symptoms, and they don't know how they got the crown. So much, I can say freely, propaganda on television stations, and respected ministers, we will have to cut down on television stations by those who have a national frequency to talk about the crown every day for three hours, because psychologically it began to work on the citizens of Serbia. There's some fear going on. Now more people are afraid of the crown than during NATO aggression. During NATO aggression, Serbs sang on bridges, and if those villains were in the sky throwing bombs and destroying Serb objects, they would drop bombs where civilians were. Depression. You know better than I do what depression is. Now to conduct a survey of Serbian citizens in any city, each third will tell you that from time to time he falls into depression, not because his salary is low, his salary is higher than it was before, not because one of the family members is not working. The biggest employment in the last 10 years is this year and last year happened in Serbia, but the fear that the profession sends every day, we need to give recognition to all doctors, of course, because they are in some way exposed and they go into some big risk every day. Here, for example, there are five doctors and six nurses in Jagodina, and until 15 days ago, 38 days ago, we didn't have any infected or staff, we'd have citizens if they were positive for the crown. So I'm asking you to slow down a little bit. I don't understand, it takes two hours for the Kroll to go today so much and so much tested, so much and so much infected, and not to scare the people, I can tell you that. You know, it's a different way of thinking from the inside, citizens think differently in Belgrade. (The People's Messenger throws out of place, "Oh, yeah, we're stupid"? Who said that? Nobody said you were stupid. Don't throw it away, 'cause that's true for each of us. One who lives in a village 250km away from Belgrade thinks differently from those who live on the 7, 10th and 15th floor, that you know and do not throw away. It's not an insult, it's a finding. I live inland and every day I have contact with the citizens and I know very well how they think, so we need to give credit to doctors, medical staff, but we also have to give recognition to educators. They have the greatest responsibility, because we send our children, our grandchildren to school, to take care of them, to take care of them, etc. I am glad that this bill does not prohibit labour and does not say that we will have a curfew, because if that happens, Serbia will experience a capitulation in economic terms. We are now very well in relation to some other countries, even the most developed EU countries and based on the Serbian budget, most in Europe are given to small and medium-sized enterprises, three times 30,000 times and two times 18,000 subsidies, i.e. those entities are not returning funds, but to reroute employees' salaries. If it hadn't been for the state, we would have at least one 70,000 or 80,000 workers without a job and in a way indirectly you have an obligation to become social cases in Serbia. So Serbia fought well with the crown and no one can dispute that. But also, ladies and gentlemen, prevention is very important. The budget rebalancing that happened, the budget rebalance he did not create the category, I don't know, that these are Serbian children and some other national minorities, citizens living in southern Serbia in the Raška area, etc., all citizens and all children for the government of the Republic of Serbia are the same in Serbia. It's very important that we know what our priorities are and where these funds are going. When it comes to the Ministry of Health and I want to give you a big confession that the Ministry and employed a large number of workers, as many as 15% I'm sure, and perhaps up to 50% of those who were waiting for a job as nurses, as doctors got a job. When it comes to protection and protection equipment for employees and here we can boast that the state has done the maximum level to protect those who treat Serbian citizens. To take the seriousness of this crown and when did we take the seriousness? When someone we know dies, one of our friends, friends, etc. Yesterday three men died, all three of them I know personally, and I can't say that the crown is nothing. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have to work, Minister, to get to work, to use protective measures. I'm sure this bill of law will not make our citizens serious in Serbia, but it will, in some ways, be an obligation to know that without a mask from the house, you cannot leave to protect yourself from others. Unique Serbia will vote in favour of this bill, and what is more important? After China, which is the largest state in the world and made a hospital, I don't know how many days from now, we're treating ourselves economically, professionally with China, and we're building a hospital in 70 and a few days, right, Minister? (Zlatibor Lonchar: three months.) Three months, yeah. Three months from now, people, I've never heard of a new facility being built in three months, and it's not a house for housing, it's a hospital for the most difficult patients if there are, and as the indicator suggests, there are more and more infected from the crown every day. So let's have someone tell us from the waist, how to carry the crown, how? If people get a crown, and he had a mask, he had contact today, I don't know, with two or three men who had masks, too, and got a crown. Here, Voja Vujic, our MP doesn't know how he got the crown. Come on, I was in the campaign back then, but I was in the campaign, I tested myself, and when I got the result, Dacic sat next to me and the message was that I was positive. I give him my phone, I say, "Read it." He read, I say, "Take now and wash your hands after I've given you the phone," nothing to him. Imagine, he has immunity and health and politics, I mean him. So, nothing. Then how is it transmitted? Come on, somebody tell me? I live in a family where there are 12 members. I have five grandchildren. The day before that, I hugged my grandchildren, kissed them, nothing. One grandson got it later, but not from me, nothing. It means we know how to get it. Why did you take off our gloves? If everything goes hand in hand and touch, for me like a layman, I don't want to say that I am a politician of general practice and that I understand everything, but I'm a man of life, so we in Unique Serbia will vote in favour of this bill. I never look forward to punishing someone, and for example, the city of Jagodina is the only city in Serbia that has the right to municipal police, 25th job and we didn't hire them because what is their job obligation? To punish the people, the one who came to the pharmacy to buy a drug, a peasant, parked a car, to take away 5,000 dinars or the one who poured construction materials outside the gate to build a bathroom or a room, got a son or grandson. I'm not for this kind of measure and we save four million dinars a month like this as a city. What do I need the municipal police for? The people know what to do and to tell you, I have the least graphite on buildings in Europe, and I don't have the communal police, and I don't have that rotation that you have in Belgrade, as it is called, which is a picture of you wherever you appear. What's his name, Light. You understand? "The Hawk's Eye". Yeah, so, without that eye, you can work and save a lot of money, but when you put your hand in the pocket of someone who has 40,000 salaries and you take away his 50, legal entity, I don't know, 150 etc. I expect to reduce the number of people infected after this law, when it comes into force and that citizens need to take a little more care. So, let me ask you, not as someone who is a politician and president of a political parliamentary party, but as a man who lives in the country, to ask you not to introduce a curfew, so let's say, you pensioners are going to buy a burek in the morning from three to seven. Well, you don't know who's worse, whether they're retired or those who work at the market. So the measures are to guide us and to respect what is the recommendation, etc. I would especially like to thank the doctors and those who got a confession from the president, that they were people who didn't work for money. It is, in fact, an indication of the Hippocratic oath and that it does not see whether you are a member of one or another party or a member of one and another nation. There have never been any kinder doctors and medical staff in Serbia than there have been during the crown, and the biggest jobs now have the hardest nine, ten months. I've even made a decision, and I've provided sponsors to take doctors to Greece, I should have been this year, so the crown extends, one 700 doctors, and these doctors aren't just from Jagodina, from all over Serbia, from clinical centres, to go one five days to relax and forget what was called nine, ten months, if we expect to send this evil, which is called the crown, early next year. What else? We need to be different from other countries, to open our borders. We are an industrial, Balkan and European centre, and the economy has no time to wait, along with the measures adopted by the Government, with the laws passed by the Government, to respect these investors etc. I'm saying it for a practical reason. Here, a German factory should be opened in Jagodina, the machines have arrived, and now that owner has sent me an e-mail, he says – I can't come back, or I can't come back, and I have to hire 350 workers. The Chinese factory should start building in 15 days, it says the same thing – how are we going to get back, what if we come, can we go in, etc. That our measures differ from other measures, other states, closing borders, etc. And let's say our borders are open, our economy can't wait. You know what else is the problem? We have a large number of foreign investors who have a market around the world, if they lose customers and suppliers, they can hardly return and have the amount of exports that they had in the past years, and I'm telling you from practice, from experience. I'm not a theorist, I have 13 foreign factories in Jagodina, and I know how they work. So, to make a decision -- there are open borders for investors, there are open limits for all those who want to come to Serbia, and I don't know the test, as others ask us to do, so that it's not more than 24 and I don't know how many hours and that we have faster economic development and that we reach everything and the strongest countries in the world. The economy, the day you lose in the economy, it takes you a month to get back. That's what I'm telling you, too, as a man of experience. And I'm so upset when one of my colleagues doesn't like my speech. Everyone has the right to say what they think. No one's writing speeches to me, and I wasn't getting ready for this topic. People's MPs are getting, "Look at you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u586	I'd like to ask you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u587	That's what to do, but I don't blame them. I don't blame them at all. You know what, when you have a boss who's the most popular in Serbia and you put your bike on the list, you pass. That's the answer to those who laugh. And ask your name, come out, and say, I am Krle Krstic of Vranj, and then earn and say that I am wrong in what I say. I support this power. This power is working well. But also, I want to say what's in my experience. None of you have been a businessman for 39 years. None of you sitting here have been involved in sports for 35 years, and 60 years, or 20 more that he's a sports worker. None of you here got married at the age of 19. None of you here have become the youngest grandfather, like me, in Serbia. I use common sense and experience, what life is today, tomorrow and the day after and what life was 10, 15 and 20 years ago. And I won't let anyone throw me, someone who doesn't know where the left is. Mr. Dacic, if we're in the same direction, the way I express it is different, from practice, from life. Here 80%, if you took the papers that someone wrote to them, you wouldn't even know what it's called. It's always been, it's not just today. It's always been like that. There are also good MPs, and there are those who understand what they're saying, but now I'm being forced to say this. A unique Serbia will vote in favour of this bill. I ask you to pass it on to President Alexander Vukic, which is my proposal, and not only is that my proposal, but it's a request from a large number of investors. We, for example. We have 60,000 employees, where they own these factories. That's a huge number of employees. So, not to have the privilege of coming to Serbia, but to look forward to coming. You know what else? They're pulling each other. For example, if a German comes in to open a factory, manufactures bolt goods and is well received in Serbia, he will tell his colleagues – let's dislocate, because Germany is no longer what it was, and France is no longer what it was, Italy is no longer what it was. Italy is one of the most in charge of the world, and an EU member, and we are in the best position compared to these major countries in the world, etc., and to work together with both America and China and Russia and, of course, with Europe. We need to understand that this political moment now suits us as observers when we look, but how will it physically refer to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? The great success of President Aleksandar Vukic and then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic is that they have placed those in The Hague where they belong, those terrorists who killed the Serb people, are there. Who said that? That's not what I said, Zarko Obradovic and Ivica Dacic. That's what Dick Marty said in his book, Carla del Ponte, and a large number of those foreign citizens who invented Racak then, to bomb Serbia, etc. It all depends, gentlemen. Someone's going to say it's not a topic. It all depends on the budget. I'm just asking you... I'm just finishing one more sentence. So, JS will vote and support this bill. And finally, let me just say, just a little less showing up on TV for two hours to be afraid of the Serbian people and all the citizens living in Serbia, to say in the morning when they get up - I'm done. Here's Žarko this morning when he came in, looking me in the eye, I say – well, did you hear Voja Vujic has a crown, immediately raised this mask to the eye, he says – I was kissing the Army, etc. It's not, he says, a problem for me, it's for the family. That's what people think. Thank you. I apologize for talking 37 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u588	For accuracy, a minute and 52 seconds, but okay, this time I've been lenient. Now, just for a second, I'd like to ask all of you to allow me half a minute of consultation with the representative of the motionary, Minister Loncar. I thank Mr. Secretary. The theme of what we've been talking about concerns our further work, so I just want to inform you that no amendment and addition of this law has been submitted, so there will be no discussion in particular. If the debate ends in due time, and based on consultations with the heads of Parliament clubs, approximately after our break, which we have regularly from 14.00 to 15. 00 hours continued with the debate and the vote would then be around 19.00 hours tonight. This would close today’s session and this weekly session of the National Assembly at all. I apologize for using these half-minutes to consult and now I'm giving my word to Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u589	Mr. Markovic, first of all, I want to take the opportunity to take advantage of what you've done, and that is to thank all the health workers and nurses and doctors and technicians and maids and maids and maids and drivers and drivers once again if I skipped out, so to those of these difficult times, we may not be aware of it now, heroes of this age, and that will only show time. I especially congratulate those who received awards yesterday on the president's proposal and I want to say that this fight continues and that there will be still certain merits, those who will receive the prizes and the president said that it will not end at all because we do not know how long this will last. I listened to you very carefully, I think we can all come to one conclusion from everything you've said, from everything we've been listening to for days, for months, that there's no opinion, no point of view, no attitude, no decision we'd all agree on. So that's no theoretical chance. We'll always have a certain number of people who think differently and think it should have been either one way or another, but not the way we suggested. I think we should all be aware of that. The second thing, this is taking too long and we need to have an understanding of everything, simple and that tank of patience, complexity and the rest isn't what it was at first. There is a need for us to understand each other and that we are ready to listen. The third thing, perhaps one of the most important, we don't know for sure today how this virus is transmitted. We don't know much about this virus for sure today. You'll agree that's a big problem. No, we don't know, he doesn't know the whole world. We get to know him more and more every day. He gets to know more and more doctors who work in hospitals, who treat these patients, they get surprised every day. It's something new, something they don't know, that they haven't learned in books, something they haven't experienced so far, and those who have come to retirement and those who have gone almost into medical practice. It's just that these are facts and we have to get out of it. What we know for sure and what is shown to us in examples, which is that when we follow the measure, and these measures are that we wear masks, keep our distance, distance, and wash our hands, that results. Guys, is it a problem for us to focus on something we know, let those people who do it, let time, draw conclusions that are necessary? No one has come here for the reason he enjoys punishing someone or stopping someone from doing something. It's not a goal for anyone, it's no idea, but we have come to this level that it's necessary to preserve human health, to preserve people's lives, and to preserve the health system and these people that we've all just thanked. People, they can't go beyond what's possible and within the limits that exist. So these people can't clone, these people can't spend 24 hours in a scuffander. It's not real, it doesn't exist in the world. There are no capacities in any country that can accept all people of a country if they behave irresponsiblely and are infected at the same time. It wasn't planned anywhere, it wasn't built anywhere. We can't think about it when we look at the results and see that in some smaller countries than we do, more people die next door and more people die than we do and say, well, we can still be relaxed, there's a worse situation. If we act like that, we'll get into that situation. That's inevitable. Is it possible that we always have to hit our heads against the wall so they know it's a wall? Is it possible we can't learn from other people's examples? I agree with you – too many stories, too much burden on people, is a serious psychological problem. We're working on it, we've turned on those SOS phones, professional people who can answer, consult, deal with this. There's a lot of pressure on people, on responsible people. This is a great burden for responsible people. This is not a burden for those who think the crown doesn't exist. This is a great burden for those people who've been carrying out the measurements from the beginning and listening, it's a great dispensation for them. For those who do not give up anything, this enters into one ear, and the other goes forth. If we can, I ask you, because you have influence, for you have been voted by the citizens of Serbia, you have come out with your names, with the names of the people who chose you to be here and to be you who would represent the citizens. Here's the point of just one thing, that we have to give up some of the things that we've gotten used to so far. That's the whole point. We have to wear a mask, we can't hug anymore, we have to kiss like we used to. People, the biggest problem for us is celebrations, parties and manifestations with a lot of people who don't wear a mask, where there's loud music, where they whisper something in each other's ear. So it's proven to be the most transmitted virus at the time. Of course it's definitely being transmitted in other ways, but our goal is to do what we know, for it's safe to transmit the virus, to prevent these things, and to try to reduce that number of infected people. In Belgrade this morning, there was not a single seat for the corona sufferers. We fired 250 patients, and over 600 had to be admitted to the hospital in the last 15 hours. I'm just asking you to understand that. No one remained unsettled, but one part of the patients goes to hospitals in Serbia, Smederevo, Smederjevska Palanka, Pogorec and other hospitals. We've opened up additional facilities, medical work, rheumatology, prepare to be ready for work tomorrow at 7:00. We're converting our facilities in the spas to treat covid patients, to keep all patients under control so they don't go home, not to be unsupervised, to receive regular therapy, to control themselves regularly so that we can react if necessary. I'll tell you right now, it's rare that the system works that way and finds a way to take care of all these people. As you know, it's about thousands of people a day, and we're not telling you that we have to take care of those patients who are not coronary positive, because the other diseases stopped, they don't care about people, or cardiovascular diseases, neurologic and all that. This is the final moment not to talk too much, to be unique and to respect that temporarily we just give up some things, which are unnecessary contacts. Guys, if it's our birthday, let's move it, delay it for a better time. Is it possible that someone can't live together if he didn't make the wedding, move it for a while? Is it possible that if someone didn't mark an anniversary or something on that very day that would bring down the whole world? I'm sure it's not like that. We're all full of mouths, we're trying to help, we're trying to protect the system, we're trying to protect the blankets, Grandma. Look at how many young people are now, and when we get to the point where we have to do something, it's stupid. Let's go to all those high-risk places, let's not condemn those who try to build a system, as if we don't know. They close at 11 o'clock, lock themselves up, keep on working under the pretext of doing business. People, as the economy works when you can't issue fiscal accounts, you can't do anything, only thing you do is spread the disease. What does the state have to do with the fact that you stayed behind after 11 and put it in your pocket and infected me with no idea how many dozens of people? We've proven that we can function, that all these investors can come, that they can be open borders, that we can do anything but need to stick to these few things. It's just for a certain time. As you saw, there was a vaccine. Very soon they'll get permission to use it, rescue for everyone. I see people here in front of the Assembly, I'm sorry they hate themselves here, who came to protest the vaccine and the measures we bring. I don't know what to say. I don't know if there's any more words to explain how much some vaccine means and how much, since the vaccines were invented, how many billions, millions of lives have been saved, and how much healthier we are and how long we've lived. But someone for some reason doesn't want to accept it. Okay, that's their right and there's no problem, but we have to be and show that we're most. Now is the moment. Guys, here's what we're talking about, we need them, we're getting worse, we're getting worse, so now we don't need ten days anymore, now it takes us two weeks minimum to go all the way to follow these rules. The sooner we start with that, the sooner we get out of this, the better and more ready we'll be to welcome that vaccine and everything else. That's what it's all about. There's no other solution, there's no other thing. Don't argue about some things, don't be conspiracy theorists, don't be bigger scientists than scientists who haven't come to a solution. Let's just stick to what results, save our lives, save our health. That's all it takes, no big philosophy, no big pomp, nothing else. I repeat, we don't do this because we love to punish someone, we just show that when you bring some measures that the state is capable of doing to apply them. For what reason? For reasons to preserve the health and lives of people, to preserve the health system because we're going to need it tomorrow when all this is over. Can you imagine how tired these health workers will be, and they won't have time to rest, because all these people will come because they've been waiting, who have no crown, who can't go to the doctor now, because we've turned most of the hospitals into a covid, because they're afraid to leave without getting infected, to get a crown on their illness. Just think about it. We don't have any others. We just have them. We can't import that. We can't create that overnight. You know, a doctor creates a minimum of 15, 20 years. I mean a good doctor. It's not enough to finish just studies, but you need practice, you need specialization, you need everything else. They show, and not only them, but also the nurses, but the technicians and all those who work there, risking their health and risking their lives... We also have those who have lost their lives for helping others. Let's just appreciate it a little bit, and we don't need anything else. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u590	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Dr. Emesha Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u591	President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, respected health ministry associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft law with amendments and proposals of the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases because we believe that this is what it is necessary to strengthen the measures necessary to protect the population from the epidemic. The Republic of Serbia responded well to the situation when the epidemic began. Practically, this law only regulates the paperwork that needs to be arranged, and these are issues of isolation, quarantine, transportation, possible emergency situations. Comments whether or not this law is repressive if we look at it from the state of well-being, but if we look at this situation today when the number of patients is increasing, and I would point out that the number of workers who are ill is a big problem, then all of this gets a second connotation. So no one's freedom should limit the freedom of another. That's the point. These measures practically enable what we may have forgotten as children when our moms and grandmothers were talking to us – when you're sick, you wear a handkerchief, when you cough you put a handkerchief and hands in front of your mouth, when you're sick, you don't go into society, you don't hug, you don't kiss. So we've forgotten it in culture somewhere, we've opened up, we're communicative, that's why the world loves us, but in this situation it's something that's bad. As far as this epidemiological situation is concerned, there are several things that are important: the law that covers all our moves, then the material investments that are necessary to cope at all with the current problem, infrastructure, equipment and once more infrastructure and once more equipment and never end, but what is most important – investment in people. As Mr. Minister said - our university is the longest, and to the right doctor there is much longer to pass. So, a minimum of about 10, 15 years so that someone can be good on their own, to recognize, to fine-tune, specifically in this case to see who's for the hospital, who's for home treatment, who's for isolation, who's life-threatening. That's why all the things that the government has already done in the previous period are very important, and that's an increase in wages for medical workers, and then stimulation for those who were primarily exposed to contact with positive patients, so everyone who worked in cove hospitals, in covid hospitals. Then it's a very important reception for a certain time, 3,300 workers. Believe me, many of them have waited years for this opportunity to get their permanent job, and that way we've made sure that they don't go into the white world but stay here, try to get some specialization, try to be excellent doctors, nurses in a few years. Again and several times, it is important to underline that it is very important to recognize the importance of all those other workers who are in health institutions. So the non-medical code, as Mr. Secretary said. All those who help us, health workers, get, after all, paid every month. So, both administrative workers and drivers and all those who care about the patient being fed and washed, to be clean and clean. It's very nice to hear so from this level of recognition for all our employees. Now I would just like to point out that there is a positive example. We in Vojvodina have been extremely well organized at the levels of homes of health, general hospitals, institutions, probably throughout the country. Daily reports are sent, cumulated, followed by what's going on, and at the level of home health, we know exactly how many people we have in the territory of our municipality, how many health workers we have. This is very important so that the next day we can reorganize and provide adequate health care. Maybe this is the right time to point out again the problem of a standard that's out of date. Our residents are getting older and sicker, we have a lot of nursing and single households, especially in villages, in smaller towns, and the normatives remain old, 1,600 old residents to one selected doctor. Maybe you should think about it. I come from the primacy, and I believe that in this whole struggle, we may not be so recognized, we don't work in a bunch of hospitals, but believe that we're closest to all of our people. In every small environment, there is a small doctor, perhaps a beginner who is not yet perfect, but is there and can communicate with experienced doctors and help everyone in the field in the right way. This is very important and this network of primary health care, health homes should be preserved, it should be built on. That's what our specialty is, the specialty of this country. Many in the world with much more material resources in health care have family doctors who are privates and many of them are well retired, went on vacations, perhaps even to some sick leave, so that you would not now be exposed to this risk that we are all exposed to. Primar is a place where you can really do a lot of work both on screening and on prevention and on triage and on daily treatment of patients, on diagnostics. So that's where it's supposed to be invested, in addition to, of course, large investments in large clinical centres, in general hospitals. Unfortunately, health is expensive. It's a slogan and we say it many times, but in situations like this we really see it cost. As far as the epidemic is concerned, the epidemic has always been. 100 years ago it was Spanish fever, 200 years ago it was Kolera, many years ago the plague, so I didn't miss the year. Unfortunately, in time, there are some diseases that the current health science doesn't know what to do, we don't recognize many things, we don't know how it's going to happen. It's inevitable, we get experience on these things. I think our Ministry, and yet again, has our entire network of health institutions reacted relatively and well to this situation. There's a hierarchy in health care. That's good in this case. So you know who's doing what's responsible and that's what can lead us out of this problem. In the end, when we look at all this, we think that the law is well thought out, well done. We have had enough experience to see that we need to change things in that direction to be more practical, more usable, and certainly in order to preserve the health of all of us. So, we will uphold the law and greet you and beware.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u592	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u593	The Honorable President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with assistants, fellow MPs and fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on April 29th in this same assembly, speaking precisely about the current epidemic of the coronary infection, I have invited everyone, especially politicians to refrain and respect the profession, and all of us to be responsible for our health and the health of other people. I then presented one at that time a very French study of Italian experts comparing the number of deaths from 2015 to 2019 in March and April and the number of deaths in the current 2020, in these two months, in six countries, the core of the Europe infection. This includes Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, France, Sweden and Switzerland. The study showed, as I said then, that the rate of death or mortality was 38% higher in 2020 than on average in these three years ago, or those 322,720 people were more dead in these two months in 2020. It's these pure numbers, which are fraternizing, that I wanted to point out the severity of the pandemic, because even then, as now, many voices have come forward that have underestimated this disease and acted very casually and irresponsiblely. For the sake of truth, throughout the earth’s pattern, there were those who were underestimating, populist, without any knowledge, underestimating and underestimating this disease. Somehow my main impression, in this overall pandemic so far, is actually the desire of a large number of individuals to have their views on the crown. It's amazing how many wise men and experts we have on all professional issues, from any field of medicine. Unfortunately, there have been many similar examples in developed democracies. The best example is, I guess, leaving the President of the United States, Donald Trump, who has been at war with experts for almost two months, predicting that the virus will disappear, as he says, like a miracle. His irresponsible approach to the pandemic, as well as the initial refusal to wear a mask, has confused the Americans, so America is currently the hardest hit by the pandemic, has confirmed 9.9 million infected, and the death toll has crossed 230 thousand. Its populist approach to wearing a mask, though great infectist Anthony Fauchi, the chief American epidemiologist and infectist leading the United States in the fight against Kovid, has repeatedly pointed out that everyone should wear masks in public and that, under quotes, it should not be a political issue. Mr. Trump initially publicly and loudly refused to wear a mask, then on Fox Business TV in early July said he wasn't wearing a mask, since everyone around him was being tested, that they were negative, and that he would wear a mask if he couldn't keep his physical distance, and that it wasn't for the national order of wearing masks, because there is, as he says, in the United States where people live and where people do jobs very far from each other. On Monday, however, on July 21st, Trump posted a photograph on Twitter while wearing a protective mask, saying: "We are united in an effort to defeat an invisible Chinese virus. Many say it's patriotic to wear a mask when you can't distance yourself socially. There's no greater patriot than I am, your favorite president. “ Then the next morning he went one step further, telling reporters in the White House that, whether someone likes masks or not, they have influence, they are effective and we need to take advantage of everything we can. That's how one populist, irresponsible president acted, and we're going to tell today the most powerful countries in the world, and what so irresponsible political action has led to in one America, which in the medical, medical, bio-industry of the world right now. We see what kind of problems they're facing and what this behavior meant. However, the new, future president, Joe Biden, has already announced that he will change the way he fights the epidemic, that he will appoint a new expert team, etc. Of course, there have been even worse examples in this short history behind us. For example, there were irresponsible leaders in the world, such as Mexican President Manuel Lopez Obrador, a leftist populist whose government printed posters saying this virus was unserious and irresponsible. Brazilian President Bolsonaro, who pressured the federal states to lift their stay-at-home measures. Unfortunately, in our public media world, there were even politicians who denied the existence or danger of this disease, on the one hand, or were presenting incredible stories about conspiracy theories that sought to reduce the population in the world or introduce 5G networks, etc. Unfortunately, we live in a time of severe defeat of modern civilization, regardless of the grandeur of scientific achievements. Mankind isn't just a victim of the pandemic, it's also her cause and accomplice. The key to solving this, but also every pandemic, is knowledge, well-organized health system, new technologies, where I mean drugs, antivirotics and vaccines, as well as, of course, I believe the most important, universal responsibility of the individual. In response to German Chancellor Angela Merkel's pandemic, Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg, New Zealand Prime Minister Jasinda Ardern, and President of Taiwan, Cai Ingven, is the other side of the medal and model responsible for handling the crisis-based advice of medical experts. Where are we? Serbia responded responsibly to the pandemic despite all difficulties in the first and second wave of the pandemic. There have been critical moments in some parts, but we have still avoided the Italian scenario and past, as the minister has already said, perhaps the best in the environment, it certainly is, but also among the EU countries, and some of them have a far more developed and richer medical sector. The measures brought by the Crisis Staff have resulted and we were a country with the lowest rate of disease compared to most European countries until the other day. However, yesterday's number of 3,536 patients and 21 deceased people are deeply concerned, as well as the fact that we registered more newly infected in our country in just a week than in the entire first wave. We are in a practically absurd situation today, in addition to constant and daily calls and requests from the Minister and the Crisis Staff, of all responsible politicians, responsible people, responsible doctors, the most recognized doctors from the profession, we still have irresponsible individual behaviour. Well said the minister, 95% of the people adhere to these measures, but 5%, perhaps less, irresponsible people are causing serious problems and can really raise an epidemic exponentially and endanger many lives in this country. Masks don't wear, there's no punishment. The gatherings are forbidden, but as we hear, we're gathering. Clubs aren't allowed to work, but they work after 11:00, etc. Indeed, the only possible solution that we have today is this, as a first step, and it seems to me a single sobering that will help us all to think a little bit better about the current situation, which is this new bill that will enable and expand the work of those who can control it, which seems to me to be the main problem, that now, in order to carry out anti-aemic measures, in addition to sanitary inspectors, will be competent and communal inspection and communal police. As a newspaper in this law, as we have heard, certain terms are defined, the concepts of home isolation, home quarantine, and that is very important, that people who are positive, and have a lighter clinical picture, we put them in house isolation, and those who have been in contact with them into a home quarantine, with constant contact with them telephone, with the training to help these people, but in the right and only proper medical way to stop the spread of this infection in our country. The law states that if there are reasons for urgency when people's lives or health are at risk in the event of non-compliance with the prescribed measures during a wider epidemic, when more people are gathered than prescribed, municipal inspectors and police officers may ordinarily order certain measures to prevent such behaviour. I must stress, and I underline that we are a country that is among the last to impose this kind of sanctioning against those who do not respect anti-epidemia measures and endanger the health of others by their actions. Gentlemen, in France, which has one of the most difficult situations in Europe, there is a quarantine that should be in place by December 1st. In the last 24 hours, 271 deaths have been recorded, and 40,439 people have died since the start of the epidemic. Due to the rapid growth of the number of newly infected, a partial quarantine is being introduced in neighbouring Hungary, restaurants, high school classes and colleges will be closed from Tuesday, and police hours will be introduced during the night. Police hours will be introduced in Romania as of Monday, teaching will be exclusively on-line, and wearing a mask is mandatory in the open as well. While a four-day closure is in place in England, so far in Wales, the 17-day quarantine is ending and they are already starting a normal life. That's exactly what the minister urged us to do, two weeks of responsible behavior to stop this trend of exponential growth of this infection. Just two weeks of serious responsibility and self-control. That's what medical workers and medical institutions in this country need. So I appeal to you, first of all as a doctor, to the citizens of our Republic, to try to be as careful as possible and to implement the measures brought by the crisis staff and the profession of this state. In Italy, 425 patients died in the last 24 hours, in Iran, 423. I repeat many times that we did not experience the Italian script. Some opposition people often criticize me. You may have seen it, but you should look at the Internet photo from Naples one day ago, where Italians in a car in Naples by the beach give oxygen therapy to a man, while the crowds of people in cafes relax and hospitals are completely overbooked. That's something we didn't have. It just didn't happen at the clinical centers. I'm afraid if we don't take seriously what we're doing today and what the profession and doctors are constantly calling for first of all, then we'll get to the point where all our capacities are overbooked. As for penalties for disrespect, gentlemen, they have been in force in the largest number of countries in Europe and in other parts of the world for months. In Spain, a fine for not wearing a 100-euro mask is provided, both in public and indoor areas. Penalties are mandatory in closed areas in Portugal, Italy, Germany, Austria, Belgium, France. In Belgium, the mask must be worn outside. In France, 135 euros are fined, and if the offence is violated and repeated, then it can rise to 3,750 euros or even an irresponsible person can receive six months of prison sentences. In certain parts of the country, Italians raised the fine to as much as 1,000 euros. In Turkey, an initial 100-euro fine has been in force since June. In BiH, masks are also worn and punished with 100 converting marks. In neighbouring Croatia, the owner of the facility or the one responsible for the facility is in charge of each facility. It must organise the implementation of all protective epidemiological measures in its facility and ensure that both staff and guests wear a mask. If they do not do so, He will bear responsibility and be punished. I stress once again, and I want to repeat what we have heard several times so far, that we are not passing the law to punish anyone, but we are doing this for the sake of education and raising the responsibility of all of us, to act as we should, in accordance with the anti-pandemic measures we have brought, to protect ourselves and others. Penalties are not the goal, penalties are the mechanism to encourage all of us to act in accordance with epidemiological recommendations. This is not the time or problem that allows us to freely define which path we are going to take, choosing according to our own conscience, knowledge or ignorance, and the beliefs that we have. Let's understand that after these pandemic-induced tectonic disorders, we are certainly not going to be the same, not as individuals, not as a community. We could just be better or worse. Maintaining the health of all of us is possible if both practical and declarative adhere to professions and sciences. We know a lot about this virus today, gentlemen. I'm sorry there aren't some people here to hear about this virus, about the corona virus itself, and about the flu viruses at all. In 1580, 33 pandemics of flu have been described and it is not something that civilization has not met. In the database of the American National Medical Library, over 69,000 published works on the Corona virus can be found. A great practical experience has also been gained by treating thousands and hundreds of thousands of patients, which has also given us information about the time of incubation, and about the way they spread and the ways of treatment. I particularly point out the unreal rapid development of molecular biology, genetic engineering, IT technology, virusology, which made it possible for us to have a decrypted virus genome on 10 January 2020 and that in the following year we will get an effective and safe vaccine, here, already around the new year, which has never happened in the history of human medicine. In the media the day before yesterday, she echoed information that the vaccine against Kovid 19 developed by the American company "Fiser" and the German "Biontek" is effective and that it prevents infection in 90% of cases. The company believes it will be able to provide 50 million doses by the end of this year. So we see a light at the end of the tunnel. I am pleased that at today's conference, the president of this country announced that he would get a serious amount of these vaccines very quickly and that we would protect those most sensitive groups of people, as well as those of those people who are on the first strike in the fight against the crown. That's why I appeal to everyone, as a doctor first of all, to be a little more patient, more responsible, because this is the moment when we can, by keeping our measure and by strictly self-preparation, stop the spread of the virus. Not only will wearing a mask completely stop the spread of the virus, but all recent research has shown and proved that wearing a mask is the most effective way to stop the transmission. The fastest way for economic stabilisation and for the health of the nation is to actually control the spread of the virus. That's what scientists and economists both agree on, I mean medical scientists. From Columbia University, they stress that there is a false tension between public health and economic health. Just controlling the pandemic is the best form of preservation of the entire economy. If we fail to do so, it will not only hurt the service sector and tourism, but the entire economy and we will, worst of all, lose a large number of human lives. Gentlemen, this is a common struggle for all of us, in which we lose or save everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u594	Thanks, buddy. The national emissary Dr. Vesna Ivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u595	The Honorable President, Honored Ministers and Honorable Associates of the Ministry, Honored Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, Honored Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today's session of the National Assembly is dedicated to discussing the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, with the aim of passing the law by an urgent procedure, in order to provide an additional legal framework for an even more effective prevention of the harmful consequences of Kovid 19 per person's life and health, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are at war with an invisible enemy, and not just us, but the whole world. We don't see him naked, we don't know him enough, and we don't have an adequate weapon against him. Nevertheless, Serbia has won battles so far. But unfortunately, the war isn't over yet. Looks like he's even more dangerous. The only way to withstand this war situation with the virus is to be disciplined, to apply measures of protection, personal hygiene and physical distance, at least until we get adequate medical weapons. The pandemic has led to global socioeconomic disorders around the world. Compared to her, she started reporting, we could say, infodemia, i.e. the frequent spread of false news via the Internet and conspiracy theory related to this disease, which has become a public health threat at global level. Since the beginning of the pandemic, our country has been run by the profession, practice, science and recommendations of the World Health Organization. The pandemic is still going on, and with the exponential growth of the number of birds affected and I'm afraid it's not possible to predict how long it's going to take at this point. Health care professionals face exceptional daily burdens, moral dilemmas, and emotional stress. The question is what are the limits of the sustainability of health workers and the health system without its collapse. That's why the only way to win a war with this invisible enemy is to fight all of us together to fight ranks, wear masks, physical distances, avoid contact, celebrations and joys, at least until the intensity of this virus weakens and collective immunity is acquired. When all this is gone, there will be joy, there will be celebration, and we will celebrate victory over this enemy. We'll get rid of this aggressor too, because Serbs are known as the people who have always fought the Liberation Wars. The Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases has regulated specific health issues relating to infectious diseases that threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and whose prevention and repression is, I will stress, of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. These amendments provide a framework for the implementation of epidemiological surveillance and measures, the way they are implemented and the provision of funds for their implementation, supervision and other issues of importance for the protection of the population from infectious diseases. Infectious disease is caused by a specific causative agent resulting from the transfer of that agent or its toxic products to infected persons or other reservoirs to a sensitive host, whether directly from person to person or indirectly through contaminated food, objects, transient host, lecturer or non-living environment, and the exchange of fluid contaminated by the cause of infection. The proposal to amend and supplement this law aims to better control against epidemic measures and prevent further spread of the epidemic. The measures that exist are good, but there has been a problem with their implementation and disrespect, which unfortunately results in an increasing number of infections over the last few weeks. The alarm is also yesterday's number, which is over 3,500 infected in one day, 21 deceased, on a respirator of 143 people, close to 3,000 hospitalized. Health facilities and hospital cove are full. So, the virus is not joking, and our doctors work tirelessly and night after night. The whole health system is too tense, and it's obvious we can keep it disciplined. When it comes to concrete solutions, I will comment briefly. Thus, Article 1 of this proposal complements Article 2 of the applicable law by introducing a personal protection obligation against infection, then introducing home isolation and quarantine as against the epidemic measure. I note here that each individual must bear responsibility for his health, because I will remind you, even though we all know that health is the greatest wealth. Let's remember what the term means only when we lose it. A healthy man has a thousand wishes and only one sick to heal. That's why one appeal to all citizens to protect this treasure while we have it. Only a healthy man can contribute to himself and his family and be a useful member of the state community. The right to health is one of the basic human rights. Therefore, the health care system must be effective and provide quality health care fully respecting values and human dignity. However, our health system is getting more and more burdensome and I'm afraid that health facilities will be filled, and health care will be overworked, and patients will suffer non-choice, i.e. patients suffering from chronic non-infectious diseases requiring continued health care. So far, the health system of the Republic of Serbia has shown the readiness of professionalism, expertise, as healthcare professionals throughout the country struggles day and night for every life professionally and devotedly. The government of the Republic of Serbia has helped to function in this sector by equipping and opening up coves of hospitals, obtaining medical devices especially respirators, protective means, disinfectants, health workers and other measures. This has so far resulted in a smooth functioning of the health system and the economy. The official indicators of the IMF and the European Commission are also evidence that Serbia is the best in Europe after the fall of GDP, and the decline is only 1.5%. In Article 5. The laws on the protection of the health of the population against infectious diseases are listed as a list of infectious diseases by category and specific health issues against which epidemiological surveillance is carried out and against which measures and prevention and prevention of infectious diseases are applied. Since Kovid 19 is a disease caused by SARS-KOV-2 virus, a new infectious disease by Article 2. The proposal puts it on the list in the category and other diseases in the additional sixth indent. Article 4, 6, 8 defines that home isolation, quarantine and personal protection against infection are added as special measures, defining the concept of home isolation when applied and who is required and notified by the competent authorities, defining the concept of quarantine in domestic conditions, when applied, who is responsible and who is applying it. As regards Article 9 of this proposal, the recommended or mandatory immunisation against this infectious disease is mentioned. I will state here my position which also coincides with the position of the president of my party, not because the president said so, but because it is my personal position, which is that immunisation, but that vaccine that will meet the criteria of the World Health Organization, that the vaccine must be safe and effective and give the opinion to the profession. Article 10 of this proposal, following Article 46 of the current law, is added to Article 46a, which defines the concept of personal protection against infection, measures of personal protection which must be followed by all citizens, legal persons and entrepreneurs and who exercise the same control. The inspection supervision of the application of this law and other regulations and general acts in Article 73 of the existing law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Health through the sanitary inspectors and that it is now a member of 17. The proposal for this law can issue a criminal order. New views are also added, which prescribe that in the event of an outbreak of greater epidemiological significance of broader proportions than a trusted job, a unit of local self-government is conducted through municipal inspectors, as well as a municipal militia in those local self-governments in which it is educated. I'll stop here for a moment and say there are no alternatives. Since there aren't enough sanitary inspectors, we don't have enough people to monitor, this is a temporary, transitional solution as long as the pandemic is going on. Article 20 of this Bill, following Article 85 of the existing law, is added to Article 85 of which fines are prescribed for legal persons, entrepreneurs, responsible persons in the legal person, for the application of the personal protection measures against infection as well as natural persons. I am personally against punishment for our citizens, because there is no greater punishment than to get sick, but this is obviously the only way to strictly implement protection measures because this wave of patients who are exponentially growing is obviously evidence of a fall in discipline in the implementation of measures. The high speed fills our health facilities and threatens to collapse our health system. What we still don't know much about this virus after all this time, and what we know for sure is that discipline and application of protection measures gives good results and that's why we should appeal to citizens that all contacts should be kept to a minimum. Given the number of infected people, you are more likely to get in touch with the infected than with the uninfected person. We also know that people who have been infected with the coronal have no permanent immunity and can be infected again, because we are still not aware of how long the immunity lasts after contagion as well as the long-term health consequences of those who have passed over the herd. So, dear citizens, don't let them punish you, so respect all the measures, because there is no greater punishment than getting sick and eventually ending up on a respirator, and there may be a fatal outcome. Take care of yourself and your neighbors because that is how you protect the health system so that it can be of service to us and to provide health care and to some patients. And this will pass. When? No one knows the answer, but you need to maintain health both physically and mentally. Save the health system, save the economy to continue life after the crown. So far, we have been doing well much better than some other developed countries and countries in the region. It has been shown that the correctness of investment in health and health infrastructure is justified during this pandemic. I hope that even after the pandemic, investment in the health sector will continue, as evidenced by the fact that the six priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are strengthening the health system, which is to help us understand the importance of a strong health system for the health of the nation. We citizens of the Republic of Serbia must adhere to the prescribed epidemiological measures and learn to change priorities and life habits. All mankind is changing the direction of the future because of the global pandemic, changing the health, social and economic images. If we want that future to be certain, we must make quality laws in this high house. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u596	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break for one hour and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Only Darko Laketic has been reported by the heads of parliamentary groups or authorised representatives so far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u598	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, I will speak today with a protection mask, primarily for the reasons that I personally believe we should set an example that we can communicate from this highest legislature with respect for the anti-aemic measures that we are discussing today. Namely, as chairman of the Health Committee and family of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I was always satisfied when the health laws came to the assembly benches. Today, however, we have a situation to discuss the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, that is, its additions and amendments, the law that was forced on one epidemic because the current law, therefore, that current one that I am talking about, when it was written and when we adopted it, was not even known. However, as we have heard from the minister today, the number of infected, the number of patients and, unfortunately, the number of deceased has already increased significantly, and that is why we are no longer just discussing certain anti-epileptic measures, their adoption, but that we are all working proactively together to ensure that these measures are applicable and applied as soon as possible. On the other hand, not only should they be directed towards health institutions, healthcare professionals, but they must also be directed towards not health institutions, legal persons and citizens. I will mention several significant moments that define this law. In Article 6 of this law, for the first time, house isolation has been defined and we can say that the proposal for this law has defined that domestic isolation goes to infected persons who have no symptoms, as well as infected persons who have symptoms, and these symptoms do not require hospitalisation. This is very important. I'll tell you what happened earlier. It happened that the infected persons were moving freely, that they were practically enabling this one mass transmission, and that we had an increase in the number of patients on several occasions. That's why I find this member of the law very important. It is also important that the infectologist, practically, prescribes this measure of home isolation and informs the competent Public Health Office. In addition to this Article 6, Article 8 defines home isolation, i.e. quarantine in domestic conditions. Quarantine under home conditions is foreseen for those persons who have been in contact with infected persons. What matters is that the length of quarantine is proportional to the longest period, i.e. the period of maximum incubation. Also, the solution here is brought by a sanitary inspector, and it proposes, therefore, an opinion by a competent epidemiologist. And this is very important. Significantly and because for the first time this measure, this solution issued by the sanitary inspector is a correction, based on which an employee will exercise his right in terms of sickness. Also, no less significant part of the law is exactly the part of the law that speaks of the involvement of municipal inspection and municipal militia. This is very important and I work alone at the Ministry of Health and I know what the number of health inspectors are and I know that it is insufficient and this member of the law is particularly important not only because of the number of perpetrators who will control anti-epidemia measures, but also because they will have the authority to issue violations or to empty objects in which anti-epidemia measures are being violated or to prohibit work within these 72 hours that have been defined. However, it seems to me that the most media attention has yet been passed by this member of the law that speaks of the criminal provisions mentioned in the case of non-Epidemic measures, and I would not now use political demagogy, as some of my predecessors are MPs, so let me say - you know what, small wages, here are defined some high penalties, I have to tell the citizens one thing - all of us who do not violate anti-Epidemic measures will not even pay the penalty. So, the essential thing is respect for the measure, and I'll tell you why. And I'm not a supporter of criminal policy, that we understand each other, neither in this sense, nor in health care, but the stake is great. The stakes are the lives of the people, the lives of our citizens, the lives of all of us. You've heard the information presented by Minister Lonchar. We're already at the end of all significant patient reception capacities. That's very important. That information is very important to think about first and foremost. Why am I saying this? First of all, we're an old nation. Many people suffer from chronic non-infectious diseases. We've got emergency states, we've got agents that can't be predicted. We must leave part of the health facilities for the health care of those persons. We must not allow health care facilities to be filled in completely equal to positive patients. You know what that means? This means that we will not be able to carry out adequate health care for all our insurance companies, all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can't let that happen. That's why I call upon you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, not to allow the collapse of the health system, all together. So, this law and these criminal measures, unfortunately, are necessary. What I would still like to say on this subject is that in this way, each individual is practically responsible by this law. Each of us, if he behaves irresponsiblely and unconsciously, endangers the health of the nation, endangers the future. We should think about it, and we should put a finger on our foreheads and think, each of us has parents and grandparents, blankets. After all, and for ourselves. Respect for these measures means a reduction in the number of patients, meaning a reduction in the number of deaths, deceased from the Kovid-19 infection, and that should always be in our mind. That's why we need this law, and that's why these criminal provisions are the only logical epilogue, so we understand each other. In preparation for today's presentation, I read a few critical comments about this law during yesterday. What surprised me was that this criticism was not directed towards the essence of this law, not directed towards the measures itself, but commented, I would say, the legal aspect and definition of this law, so why some bodies were defined by the Law on Government, and not by this law, and why not the municipal militia introduced significantly earlier and so on. Gentlemen of the People, I would like to tell you that we have to deal with the essence, and the essence is the health of the nation and that all those who think that politics can be introduced into solving such vital health issues, to leave in the past because they belong there, and the essence is that this health system of ours at this moment needs such a law. Why? Because I personally, but also all relevant, health, professional, medical and scientific subjects expect this law to, above all, strengthen respect for anti-epidal measures, reduce the number of patients, reduce the number of infected and reduce the number of deceased and that is the essential thing. In the end, I'll tell you one more thing, Serbia has never been retrograde, Serbia has never been mostly anti-vaccinal or anti-science, so let's respect the measures, save lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u599	Thank you. Meanwhile, Enis Imamovic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u600	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is before us, I'm free to say, one logical law. A law that was necessary to adapt to the conditions and challenges facing our fellow citizens and the population in the Republic of Serbia, both medically and socially. Everyone's talking about the coronary virus today. A lot's been said. There was a lot of truth, but there was plenty of speculation. I'm not saying in this House, but in society, in public discourse. Since we have to make sure that in such serious situations, we speak responsibly to such serious subjects, I will leave that medical aspect of the reference to this law to experts or at least to those who feel that way. I want to look back on this law from that social, practical aspect of its application in practice. As a society, we've entered this so-called so-called society. "third wave" of this pandemic. The numbers of infected people are increasing, unfortunately the number of deceased citizens is increasing, and this is all happening with the same system and with the same managers, responsible people who ran the system and in the first two waves. Can we be satisfied with the system's response to those first two waves? As representatives of the Sandzak citizens, we cannot be satisfied. As someone who comes from Novi Pazar, a city that was one of the most affected cities in Europe, I believe it was necessary to establish an objective responsibility before this adoption of the law. By that we mean both punishments and objective recognitions for those who have done well, and there have been, there have been both. That is why it is our obligation to insist on determining responsibility. We are witnessing that in many areas law-making alone does not automatically contribute to improving the situation on the ground, especially when it comes to such a single law. Laws often also know to remain a dead letter on paper. I need, first of all, to ask who will take care of the application of this law and the legal provisions in the field? Is this law going to be taken care of by those who ripped up dead women in the New Market? Will the application of this law be looked after by those who, on the day of the visit of the government representative in Novi Pazar, sent patients from the hallway home, so that several patients who were filmed in these halls at home and passed away. Between them and a young life. That is why it is necessary to discuss responsibility before this election. The responsibilities of individuals, the responsibilities of institutions and whether there is a way to restore trust in the health system and the institutions of the system. Responsibility for decisions, responsibility for crisis management, that's a prerequisite for this law. That is why it is necessary to form an expert commission, a committee that will know that it assesses responsibility. This is an extremely serious thing, a serious charge hanging over everyone, and that's why we as people are obliged to be just in all of this, so to be fair and fair. It is extremely important to make sure that we do not impose guilt on those who do not have this guilt, but it is also important that those who are objectively guilty, whose mistakes have led to a catastrophic state, to endangering the health and life of our citizens, are not being dragged into the system. There was a lot of cover-up, there was a lot of false information, and these are the answers we have to insist on, on answers and on the responsible ones. We want to know who these people were responsible for the failures that happened in Sandzak and the many lives our fellow citizens lost? Just like the people of Sandzak, we are interested in whether among the awarded doctors there are doctors from Kragujevac, Kruševac, Belgrade, who at the most difficult times for Novi Pazar and Sandzak came to help, risking their lives? They're real heroes. They deserve a reward. I will take this opportunity to mention doctors from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have also come to help. It is in the interest of all of us to carry out this work and this responsibility fairly and justly. We have testified that some of the measures taken during the state of emergency were excessive, inappropriate. Some measures have also produced results. However, we made the election immediately after the state of emergency. I must stress that we as a parliamentary party have proposed that parliamentary, local and rural elections be held at the earliest on 6 September. The proposal was not accepted, unfortunately, but we saw and if it had been adopted, we as a state would have lost nothing. In addition to fully controlling this first and second wave, the results of measures, positive measures, positive results of these measures from the first and second waves would also protect citizens of this unnecessary exposure to the virus. Therefore, the lack of established responsibilities of people and institutions who were meant to protect our citizens and their lives is one of the main reasons why the Crisis Headquarters and the competent authorities today do not enjoy the confidence of the citizens they should enjoy. They don't have the credibility to have a crisis staff and institutions that are trusted, so there's no trust. In addition, we believe that this law was necessary to specify a few more of its aspects, especially in those parts and in those measures set before the citizens. In this regard, we should know exactly which institution and which individual who runs that institution is behind some of the measures that it proposes to citizens or imposes on them as mandatory. So, that's still what this law should have predicted. We will not take part in the vote for this law. We won't be against it, we won't be abstentioned. We simply feel that there are no conditions for this kind of system to come into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u601	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u602	Your Honor, I have listened very carefully to you and what I believe is that we are in a moment that has no place for politics. It's about people's health, it's about people's lives, and that's our number one priority. I hope you're okay with that. You don't need to abuse these things for something else. There's nothing more important than this. As far as responsibility is concerned, no one can escape, it's impossible, we all agree. If you think at this point it's more important to do an analysis than to fight for people's health and lives, I disagree. This moment, these numbers that we have require us to do everything to stop the spread of this virus and that's our primary task. If responsibility will come in six months, in a year, I repeat, no one will escape from it, and in that time we will surely be smarter. I agree with you that we don't know much about this virus and everything that goes around this virus. They're facts and there's no point in getting into that story when the whole world doesn't have enough information about this virus. I think it's necessary to focus on what we know. Instead of leading the controversy, we should appeal to people so that what happened in the market doesn't happen to us. That's the point, because no one will benefit from our debate. It will benefit if we appeal together to people to get out of this, and then we will have all the time in this world for analysis and for bickering and crossing attitudes, whatever you want. But we do it when we don't have any threats and we don't have to be threatened by capacity filling and we don't have anywhere to put people and when we have people going to parties, parties, cafes, all that stuff, and we know that that's what leads people directly to the hospital. Are we the ones who invented the coronary virus? Did you and I bring it? Did one of us make people disobey the rules? I don't think we're either, and we have a result of disrespect directly in hospitals. I think this is the time for nothing to escape, absolutely. It will be in six months, in eight months, but everything will come out, absolutely everything. Tell me someone invested more in Novi Pazar, in health care in Novi Pazar than in 2014. Please give me a hint. Remember if Novi Pazar served as a taxi station, only he had the chance to take people to Kragujevac and to Belgrade. How many people we've hired in New Market, how much specialization we've given, how many new equipment, how many new, diagnostic center, an angelic hall, not to list everything. Is it planned for Novi Pazar another 30m euros to create a new surgical block? Was that ever? When was the last time you invested in New Market? When was the last time that the best doctors from Serbia came, operated and helped the citizens of Novi Pazar and the environment and educated doctors and nurses and staff in Novi Pazar so that they could do these operations on their own, that they would not expose themselves to the efforts of the citizens of New Pazar and the environment to have to go to other centres, but to end up here, that they could come to visit relatives, not to expose themselves and not to go to other places? Remind me, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I don't know, you tell me. Are we wrong? It's impossible not to make mistakes. Is there a measure we're going to bring and an eye that we're all going to agree on? I sign you, it doesn't exist, it absolutely doesn't exist. Does Serbia have the best, and today with this, does it have the best results in the region? Yes, there is. Is there one of the best results in Europe? Yeah. And did they come, did they fall from the sky? No, they're not. We've been working on it. Are we warning you in time? I've been talking to you - people, we need seven days without contact. No, we didn't listen. Now it takes us two weeks. So it's all up to us. That's why I don't think it's time to discuss it, it'll be time. We need all the strength to appeal to those we can adhere to and to have as few as possible, to try to stop it. That's my goal, that's my idea. For everything else there will be a time when we return to the normal system of work, when we are no more than half of the hospitals in the Kovid system, and when we do not drive patients from Belgrade to the inside to lie down to be treated. Now Novi Pazar, if he were closer to Belgrade, could most effectively receive all these patients from Belgrade who cannot be accepted, has conditions to be admitted down and taken care of. Well, we came to that stage. If you think it's small, I respect it. But we will continue to fight and reduce the trend of the infected and continue to invest. Tell me, who made the new Covid Hospital, besides the Chinese? These are hospitals for all Serbian citizens, with 1,000, 1500 seats, one in Batajnica, one in Krusevec. Think about what it's like to make a hospital in three months, to get it ready to work, to find 2,500 people, nurses and doctors to work here, and when you know how long it takes to educate your sister or doctor, how many years it takes to get into those hospitals to work, not just build these hospitals, but to get it into those hospitals, what you say, from a needle to a locomotive, and to have it all, that it's nothing wrong with it. Say when someone did it, say when someone thought about it that way? And to say that it's someone's marketing, I'm telling you again -- well, you can't, you won't take those hospitals home, stay for the citizens of Serbia, stay for everyone at their disposal, when the crown is over, to get rid of waiting lists and for everything he's done so far. The point is, in my opinion, that's it. I'm not giving up on that. This will be my priority, to ask people to follow the measure, to keep as many as possible healthy, alive as possible, so that tomorrow we can all analyze everything together and share our responsibilities, as it belongs to it based on these analyses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u603	Mr. Imamovic, on what grounds? (Enis Imamovic: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u604	Thank you. With a good part of your answer, I might as well agree, especially in those parts that concerned responsibility. I'm glad to see you ready to face responsibility. However, I believe that we should have faced this responsibility immediately after the problems had arisen, after the great lives we had lost. We are in a political home, here are political parties and political parties who propose, adopt and oppose the laws. I don't see why something is always a problem if someone comes forward to say something against any proposal, that it's called politicizing. It's not politicization, it's politics. That's why there's this home. That's why we choose here, as far as I understand. So it's not politicisation, it's just politics, citizen representation. I cannot agree with you that the conditions in the health care facility and in the hospitals in Sandzak were excellent. Then how did we get into the situation we came into? Then how did we get into a situation where we had pictures like that from the hallway, people sleeping in hallways, chairs, blankets? How did we get into this situation if the conditions were great? It is true that it has been invested, but please, Minister, say how much money is invested from donations, private donations from our citizens, both the Sandzak citizens, so the diaspora citizens who have invested.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u605	Mr. Imamovic, it's been two minutes. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u606	I'd like it if you could let me, that's my opinion, and I appreciate the politics and that you, not you, are all involved in politics, but I think that the health of people and people's lives are above politics and that this is the moment. You can be angry, that's my attitude and I won't give it up. As long as we have the situation as we do, I will insist on protecting the health of people and their lives. I think at times like this, politics has to be on the sidelines. Don't be mad. That's my opinion, and I'm going to, as resolute minister, insist, because for politics, I agree absolutely, there's time. Here we need things to save our health and our lives. As far as donations are concerned, good for you. There were donations, they were top-notch, but they were much less than what the state had invested. I thank everyone who donated, I hope it continues, but it's best when the country goes together and donations or donations go when they recognize that the state will wash it out and help. You insist on the New Market and the situation that hit him, I'll just remind you. Look at the pictures from Italy, from Spain, from countries that have invested much more in the health system. Did anyone know about this crown, and did they know about all the things that would be 10th and what it would look like? No, it's not. Did they get somewhere better or worse? Yeah, that's what happened. Are there many factors? Don't think there's only one factor that can affect, there's always more factors, especially in health care, but there will be time. Just patience, there'll be time. Now let's fight to get as few infected and as few people in the hospital as possible, to respect the measures, and then talk about all these things. I think that's the point, that we're going to help all the citizens the most and expect it from us, and that after that, when they survive, when they stay healthy and they're going to participate in all this debate and say what they think. That would be a message.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u607	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the MPs according to the word applications in the principled search. The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u608	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable vice-presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers, I am not glad we have to talk today about this law which, among other things, provides for a policy of sanctions. I am extremely against sanctions, and I believe that by raising awareness, investing in education and culture, we can influence and in the long run raise citizens' awareness of the dangers treated by this law. Of course, it is clear to me that this is how the system works that way that we must sometimes have restrictive measures in order for citizens and citizens to abide by it. What I want to point out primarily is to praise the Ministry of Health, all workers and medical and non-medical personnel for the heroic fight against the coronary virus that they have shown all this time and show today. I would also like to extend my gratitude to the representatives of the diaspora, especially when it comes to the Sandzak municipalities where we have had a large number of diaspora donations from Sarajevo and Belgrade and Western Europe, representatives of the Islamic community who donated large funds to help function and health centre in Novi Pazar and hospitals in Priboj, Prepolje and Novi Varosha. What I want to point out is that today we need to analyse the situation we've been through, because the purpose of this Parliament is that before the law is passed, in accordance with the facts, we are going through all the circumstances behind us. The situation in Novi Pazar was dramatic this summer and the responsible must have a name and name. I don't think it's a minister, I don't think it's the Ministry of Health and in conversations with the competent people in the government of the Republic of Serbia, I've been given information as much as the ministry has invested in Novi Pazar. I think the ministry should work on the PR and that what the minister is telling us here right now should know every citizen and citizen. I want to point out as a positive example of responsibility and the fact that we have received pandemics in the new market. At the time, it was the subject of politics and assault. I think anyone who behaves so responsibly and who helps should give his hand and thank you. What I want to point out is, except for the New Market, and a case of patients from the Shadows. We have a situation that two patients died because they were returned from the Health Center of Uzica, and then there was one argument that it was a misunderstanding. Both cases ended in death, and that's unacceptable. That's not what we're looking for, not me, not my party, but that's what citizens and citizens are looking for. It is not the responsibility to bear neither the Health Center, nor the Ministry, nor the Government, but those individuals who have not worked responsibly. Also, as we commend all those who have worked very responsibly and made their contribution, we must, in order to make a better system, more efficient, and all in the service of citizens and citizens, in order to treat the patient, the ultimate consumer service as best possible, the truth to look into our eyes. What I expect, too, from the ministry and from the minister is to pay particular attention to hospitals and health homes in Prijepolje, Priboj and Novi Varoša, because we currently have a big focus there when it comes to the crown, and we also have a situation that the Health Center of Užice is quite maternal relations and we have a situation that the account is in a blockade and that people who work in hospitals in Prepolje, Priboj and Varoshi are really struggling, but they need to be able to provide better conditions and therefore I think that the ministry is directly, without intermediaries, to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u609	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u610	I just need to give you an answer to this, and I understand that you're not in favor of being sanctioned in any way. I have to remind you that we've been appealing to people for months and trying to appeal, hoping to come to an understanding, we get results. As you can see, the numbers, the facts show that it didn't happen, that people didn't respond to that appeal. What are we doing now? We're just forced, this is the ultimate measure, to enable the implementation of an existing law. What does this mean? We don't have enough sanitary inspectors, because under current law, we should have thousands of sanitary inspectors to get there to process it, record it and do it. Since we don't have time to hire thousands of inspectors, get them into business and stuff, we're just working to make it possible for related inspections to help us and make it possible to enforce the law. That's the whole point. This isn't any new law, this is something that exists on such occasions. We'll just make it more efficient. We can't do it alone, we're asking for help from those who have more resources than we do. That is why I note, that we are forced to do so, because of these numbers that we have every day and because of the overload of the health system we want to protect, not only the health system, but all of Serbia's citizens. That's the essence of what we're doing right now, that we're going through an emergency procedure, because we don't want to lose any more days because our numbers are growing, and when we're growing numbers, the danger of people's health is greater. That's our only goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u611	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The following has been reported with Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u612	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ministers with their associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the reason for the adoption of this law stems from the need to overcome the problems we face daily in the application of legal regulations, decisions, orders and other general acts of the competent authorities in the part of the application of the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Contagious Diseases. First of all, I think of the measures to be applied to protect the population from infectious diseases, but secondly, the sanctions that should be applied in the event that respect for these measures in practice is missing. Although Serbia has had a valid legislation since 2005, during the declaration of an emergency situation, or pandemic of the virus, it has been brought in line with the needs for regulation of the area as soon as the area is regulated by law. However, the emerging situation requires the adjustment of regulations to any uncertainty that this virus carries with it. I think we're all aware of that. First of all, there was a need for a clear and more precise definition of the concepts themselves, such as an unfavourable epidemiological situation, home quarantine, personal protection against infection, etc. which had not been regulated by the previous legal solution, because there was no need for this at the time when the law was passed in 2005. This basically means that the duty of each of us as an individual is to act responsibly and thus to minimise the risk of infecting ourselves and others. As someone who comes from Nis, professionally doing business within a part of the municipal sector, I have to say that against the obligations of individuals, which each of us has, stands both the obligation and the enormous responsibility of employers, on the other hand. First of all, I am referring to their obligation to predict and warn all possible steps to preserve the life and health of citizens, i.e. in a specific case of their employees, but while respecting all their rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, the Labour Treaty, collective agreements. Trust me, this job is for one employer not a bit easy. In this regard, I would mention that during the duration of the state of emergency, a large number of regulations, orders, decisions, recommendations and those were absolutely necessary in order to respond in due time and to legally regulate all models of employers' behaviour while respecting the employees, which I spoke about earlier. I think that's precisely why, but also the orders and recommendations of local crisis headquarters we have a situation where we've actually preserved a large number of people's lives in that first wave of coronary viruses. One positive example is that t the eye of the first wave by the Ministry of Labour makes a recommendation to all employers to confirm the presence of a virus or a measure of self-insulation or isolation to employees who have a solution to the competent authority enables the absence from work to pay a fee of 100% and thus to incorporate this recommendation as an obligation in their internal acts. To the extent that this recommendation was good, i.e. positive, it is in favour and the fact that in September of this year, in fact on 30 September, an Annex 4 to the special collective contract for public undertakings in the municipal activity, which was regulated next, I will quote - an employee who is temporarily absent from work due to confirmed infectious disease Kovid 19 or measures imposed on self-insulation or isolation, who has acted as a result of direct exposure to the risk based on the performance of jobs and work tasks, exercise the right to make a profit in the amount of 100% of profit. We need to understand that this bill, despite the various thesiss we have heard today, should be seen as necessary without any interpretation of any superficial and misreadable interpretation. In the end, you will allow me to ask a rhetorical question – have you heard of a song from the 1970s "Life Is a Maskball". I'm sure it is. As much as it's mentioned in the context of satire, whether we admit it to ourselves or not, we need to take it as our reality to get it over with as soon as possible, I'll call it the Corona Ball under masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u613	Thank you. The word is Zagorka Aleskiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u614	- The microphone's off. .....
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u615	Let me just ask you to direct the microphone a little bit better for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u616	- The microphone's off. ..... .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u617	Excuse me one more time. I'll ask you to repeat the exposure. We're having trouble with the sound. You'll just sign up again. We'll measure the time from the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u618	These changes regulate the concepts of home quarantine and home isolation and at all specify the measures for the population affected by Kovid 19, whose condition does not require hospitalisation, as for their contacts. The law prescribes more personal responsibilities, and most importantly for informing citizens, it also regulates criminal measures. The implementation against epidemic measures in addition to the sanitary future will be subject to both municipal inspection and municipal militia. Article 67 of the already existing law has now been amended and given to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, in addition to the Ministry of Interior, to provide assistance within the limits of their responsibilities in carrying out inspection surveillance measures. Although penalties in case of non-compliance will be strengthened, both for natural and legal persons, we must not neglect the constant awareness of how important prevention measures are. There are problems we're just going to face. New problems that will create wider home isolation, entire families that will be in isolation, singles who will be in isolation. Let's remind ourselves of the state of emergency and the help packages that received the most diverse categories of people in Belgrade, Novi Sad, in many Serbian cities, without already talking about Jagodina where valuable volunteers came to every house, city, village, every man who answered. We need such solidarity all the time. Our people, ladies and gentlemen, are resourceful, resourceful, but well organized. We've shown that we're helping each other and that when the crisis is over the difference. How many examples of voluntary, non-profit associations of citizens who have organised the collection of money and other funds to help endangered individuals, families, and some hospice hospitals and maternity homes. These are reflections of goodwill, and these are the brightest examples of the citizens' initiative. It is in the responsible state to protect its citizens, it is in the responsible state to protect responsible citizens from those who are not. As someone who rides the city on a daily basis, I can testify that I see faces without protective masks in public transportation vehicles all the time. Of course, they're much less than citizens who wear protective masks, but they do. Time spent in transport, ladies and gentlemen, is a sort of gathering. It's the most urgent gathering we can't end anymore. Some citizens take in transport and two hours a day going to work, returning from work and making physical distance impossible, but anyone can and must wear a protective mask. Of course there are bigger problems, but this is the problem I want to point out for the best of intentions. The rapid state reaction, well-organised re-intention of health institutions in units, mobility and flexibility of the health system that has not been scheduled in key moments, should be highlighted. Nevertheless, the greatest merits in the fight against Kovid 19, which unfortunately continues, are worn by Serbian doctors and all medical staff who by their work, knowledge and sacrifice saved our health system from collapse. There is never enough investment when it comes to the health sector, when it comes to investments at all levels of health care. We supported an increase in salaries to medical personnel planned from January 1st, investments the state predicted in existing hospitals, as well as the construction of new Kovid hospitals in Belgrade and Krusevec. Corona is our new reality. Our country has helped organise life within the framework of a new reality. But it's a complex process and a number of challenges are just ahead of us. As we pass a law that strengthens criminal policy, it introduces the necessary measures, and when in the future we may bring in some new ones, let us bear in mind that all these regulations are passed on to citizens who are exhausted by the effects of health and social crises, but how many are only saddened by the passing of one of Kovid 19? How many citizens are in pain with another chronic disease? How many have died of other diseases? Life is at all a minimum, and it is a reality that requires the responsibility of every single person, but also the right measure when it comes to tolerance states, but above all, responsible and just. In view of the strong state, responsible authorities and solidarity society, there is the only formula of success in the time of uncertainty that Kovid 19 has brought into the lives of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u619	Thank you. The word is Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, allow me to say a few words about this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. Minister, first of all, I'd like to speak to you. The more time has passed since the appearance of the Kovid 19 virus, the more you and other colleagues from the medical profession of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are trying to explain what all covid means and what its consequences are. My impression, not only here in Serbia, but on a broader plan, by reading that literature dedicated to this pandemic of the virus, is that there are people who don't understand enough the meaning of the breed, or its negative consequences. If you are looking at this angle of view of the herd, then you can also forgive some qualifications related to both what our country is doing and the consequences that exist in Serbia from Kovid 19. There are other parts of people who probably know what they're talking about and they say it in another, negative way, but it needs to be seen again as part of political action against the current coalition and people who are publicly running this thing. I say - publicly, because there are a very large number of people in the health care system who selflessly give themselves and a large amount of their own personal energy and integrity invest in the fight against the crown. I heard today, in addition to what we are discussing about this law, one good thing happened today, and this is what President Vukic published a few hours ago, which is objectively light at the end of the tunnel – information from President Vukic that Serbia will probably be in a situation at the end of December of this year to obtain the first amount of vaccine, and then at the end of January, if I understand correctly, the first amounts of vaccine already begin to apply to certain categories of employees, I mean health, police and military, and those categories of people who need it most, and these are threatened categories of the population, threatened by the state of their health. Why did I mention that first? I don't think people understand that this is the first time in humanity's recent history. I don't know what happened in the past, at least there's no written record of it, but in January of this year, when a virus of unknown origin appeared at the market of seafood in Wuhan, as it was then qualified, no one could know what that virus would produce, either inside China or on an international stage. The world is no longer the same as it was before January of this year. He's changed in many ways. That's one topic. From the point of view of what we are discussing today, it should be recalled that on yesterday, eight months ago, the World Health Organization declared the pandemic of the Covid 19 virus. At that time, on March 11th, eight months ago, it means on yesterday, 116 thousand people, I deliberately took these numbers to show what everything, unfortunately, the covid today is, because the covid has entered one, if I may say, gallop, with its spread and consequences, so 116 people around the world have been infected with Kovid 19 and then a pandemic has been declared. On April 2nd, there was one million, on June 28th 10 million people who were infected, on July 21st, over 15 million people, one piece of information was spoken in 213 countries of the world, not only of the UN member states but also of those who did not, on July 25th, over 16 million people. So, July 25th, three, four months ago. Today, according to today's data, I watched a few hours ago, over 52 million, or 52,542,000 people around the world are infected. That's 336 times more infected than eight months ago. I just saw a statement from the World Health Organization about Kovid 19. He says, "The world is tired of the idols, but the Ark is not tired of what it does. Unfortunately, the actual state of affairs is such that we have to act. When the Republic of Serbia is mentioned and the estimates are given of what the Republic of Serbia is doing to prevent herds, I think we should be very pleased, and if there are individuals who give negative estimates, to be very careful about that, because I absolutely share your view that, by the end of this story, at the end of this story, when the covid ceases to be an infectious disease and when it is contained in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we will only be in a situation to compare ourselves with other countries. I think that the Republic of Serbia is doing everything right to suppress the spread of Kovid 19, because when I look at some numbers, I wouldn't mention these great countries, I took numbers that relate to yesterday. For example, Portugal, which has 10 million inhabitants – 192 thousand infected. I would not mention the number of deceased persons, because they are far higher than in Serbia. Sweden today, their model, which they applied, without some direct protective measures and without rigorous measures to prevent the spread of the crown – 166,000 on yesterday. Today there are four thousand more Croatias, which say there are four million people, meaning 1.5 times less than there are us, there are almost seven million or 1.7-75,920 people. Slovenia, which is three times smaller than us, already 50,000 infected. We're on that list by the number of people infected in 67 in the world, as many as 193 UN members, and I've said over 200 and some countries that count or have entered this system, and there are few countries, only a few in which the covid is not present. But when we speak, thank God for us compared to so many of the infected and for what he is, not many people died. Of course, every life is precious and should be fought for every life, but when you look at those figures, then you can understand the value of what the Republic of Serbia is doing to prevent the spread of the crown and how much concern it is about human health. Someone says yes, but there are older people in these countries of the West, so this is due to a large number of deaths. It's not like that. Demographically, Serbia is among the five oldest countries in Europe and between ten in the world, and yet our figures are far less. I wouldn't mention Italy, where over 42,000 were unfortunately deceased, Spain, over 40,000. So it's not just a demographic situation, it's something else, and it's enthusiasm for people who work in the health profession, it's a good organization when the covid shows up, the measures that apply, because we don't need to be distracted from the idea that this is the first time that this is happening to us. The Republic of Serbia applies everything others apply, and in some situations better than others, it can only serve us honor. Doctors are the people who have borne the greatest burden in the fight against the birds, and we really owe them immense gratitude. Where are we today? We are adopting this law today, as you say, to improve the legal framework and to make all these measures applied against the Kovids even more possible, if I can say affirmatives and another number expand. Of course, the purpose of all the laws that we are discussing today is to prevent Kovid from being infected and as few as possible by those who are at risk, given the state they are in if they are infected with the crown. I say, we share only the fate of the world, if in March, April and May of the month there was fear of the people of what the Crown is wearing, and objectively it is, and no one knew anything about it, today it is safe not only here in Serbia, but also with a significant number of people around the world present a kind of negligence or incomprehension significant. You've said one thing to me about the crucial sentence I've been reading these days and in some other, or that I've heard in some other magazines, I've heard from you, and that's what you said about the transmission of the virus -- no one knows exactly how the virus is transmitted, and unfortunately it's one truth and the other is that the only measures of social distance can give results, but life can't stop. If we stop everything, if we apply 100% stop and move or one block, then we'll block life, and then the world of course won't exist, or at least it'll look completely different. It is perfectly logical to apply certain measures to prevent the spread of Kovid. I am pleased that you, in this law and in this bill of law, have placed the Law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases of great importance on the individual, on responsibility, on the obligation to comply with the measures and to use personal protective means. If we are not aware that our behavior is important, not only for our safety, not only for our health condition, but also for our loved ones and the entire population, we cannot expect good results. For free of appeal, free of any, I say, measure, man must first understand with himself to resolve some dilemmas and to realize that the most important thing is to behave responsibly, to apply the measures of the Crisis Staff, the measures prescribed by the Ministry, the measures prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and simply wait in such conditions, of course to welcome the vaccine. It's good to see in the amendments to the Law on Protection against Infectious Diseases, Kovid was found to be an epidemiological disease. I understand that you wanted to solve things both legally and in fact in a better way than before, and it's a good thing that the law prescribes all these measures. I can see the vaccine is mentioned. That's what the president was talking about today. I will certainly be one of those who will gladly receive the vaccine when the time comes and when the state gets it. Of course, it is good that the state has already signed contracts with certain companies, but before that it should be mentioned that the vaccines that pass a very rigorous quality control test to keep the citizens safe. I think in that respect too, it must be taken care of so that the citizens know it's for their own good. I've seen that you've put inspection surveillance in place so that as a trusted person, local self-government can do the same. I think it's a good thing and that at the level of local self-government, if I may say take responsibility for the state of health at the level of local self-government through the communal inspection. Also, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law provides for the control of travellers from abroad, and that is one good thing, because other countries worry about the safety of their citizens in their own way. If memory serves me well on 17 March this year, the European Union has closed its external borders by caring for its members and their citizens, it is quite logical that the Republic of Serbia also cares about its citizens and every such measure is welcome and everyone is welcome in Serbia, but it must be known that it is healthy, that its arrival would not cause the spread of the Corona virus. I'm going back to personal protection again. I think it's a very important thing and I think it's essential, because if we don't figure out what that means, I think it's a question and what the result is going to be. All these measures that you have listed in article 26 regarding home isolation, for those who are without symptoms or with symptoms or contents of Article 31a, which speaks of quarantine in domestic terms and all these measures, I think it is well solved, but again I return to the beginning, the crown of the whole story will be individual behavior, individual behavior. The government did everything they could and did everything they could. We need to understand that there are people who are sick and other kinds of diseases, that they also need care, that they are part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we cannot turn the entire health system into a covid system, that it is a good thing that, the other day we talked to Minister Mali about new Kovid hospitals in Belgrade and Kruševec, but about the shines of other towns and municipalities of Serbia in which health homes will be better arranged, in order to make it a simple health situation, i.e. simply a health situation, i.e. to make the health system a better quality. I agree, now is the right time to invest, now we see what the health system means for the health of the nation, for the health of citizens, and unfortunately, but truth be told, this is the only way to check both the quality of the health system and what it means and how much we have to invest in it. 'Cause, don't worry about health, all the other rights we have are gonna be hard to get. You know that famous line-- a healthy man wants a lot, and a sick man only has one wish, to be healthy. No human right prescribed by the Constitution can be fulfilled if you are not in a situation to achieve it, and you can only achieve it when you are healthy. I think it's very good that we're discussing this law today, and that you've predicted in this law a set of measures that would, as I say, improve the situation and do everything possible for us as a society to be responsible and more efficient in reacting to the suspension of the spread of Corona until we get the vaccine and then hopefully finally solve the question of Kovid 19. In any case, we SPS MPs will vote on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act against infectious diseases in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u621	Thank you. The word is Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u622	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, is today one, I would say, of the most important health laws, a bill on health protection of the population from infectious diseases. Why do I say he's one of the most important? In this room, in previous terms with Minister Loncar, we have had the opportunity to adopt many important laws, but in this situation I would say that this is one of the most significant. Because only during yesterday's day in Serbia, out of 12,000 were tested, as many as three and a half thousand registered and infected with the Corona virus. Today's data is also worrying, of about 13,000 tested, three thousand and 340 infected. The number respirators show that the same increase, today we have over 150 people fighting for life. They're fighting together with our heroes, our doctors and our medical workers, I'd tell both sisters and all those in those facilities. It's easy for all those who don't support these measures to criticise it from some places, to advocate something else, that, freely speaking, they're bringing the build into error. All these self-proclaimed acquaintances, know-it-alls, anti-masskers, anti-vaxers, and I don't know what kind of quacks patriotic groups that attack both the Crisis Headquarters and the Ministry of Health and all the people who want this monster to end as soon as possible. What is encouraging is that just today, President Vukic with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who has been struggling with all previous months to stop what has hit us, not only us, but all the countries in the region and in the world, has today provided over a million and 800,000 vaccines that will come into our country by the end of December and be vaccinated with those groups that need it most. I don't know why it bothers some people. If they don't want to wear masks, let them not endanger the lives of us who want to protect ourselves and others. What I can say more, and this is a message to all Serbian citizens, I'm a psychiatrist, I'm not as competent as the Crisis Headquarters, which consists of epidemiologists, of infectologists and other people in the profession, to talk about how the virus is transmitted. What colleagues say, and we don't know how it's transmitted ourselves, is still all in some studies, but if the profession suggests that we use protection measures, use and maintain distance, why not respect it? In my environment, I had a chance to see people who were younger, they ended up on respirators, some unfortunately ended up fatal. Which means none of us know how to react to a coronary infection with a virus. And I don't know if I've been lying to her or not, but I'm just trying to protect myself and my children and my family, among other things, and all the other people who are surrounded, because I don't know who that monster is going to catch so that it ends up with catastrophic complications, consequences or God's fatal. That's why I want to make a request to all citizens first and foremost. Our president didn't beg as a god a few days ago, some make fun of him for it, so why is he begging people and the Belgrade people and everyone else in Serbia to stop all of this, because if we don't give one such picture and an example that we have to fight and respect the measures, then who's going to do it? Surely not those who struggled during our country's struggle to come up with all those consequences, such as the economic crisis of the minority that could have occurred. So we've managed to prevent all of this, and let's stop this disaster that's already here in some countries and wild. Here, today is the data that in Italy as much as 1% of the population is infected and they are already under collapse. Well, come on, people, let's talk some sense into each other. What I still want to add is that, well, we've adopted budget rebalancing today, and fortunately, a great percentage goes to the Ministry of Health and to the measures that will be taken, but it's ridding us of all these measures and all that good work our President and our Government are doing if we don't try to stop our responsible behavior. What I want to add is that I am proud of the fact that exactly of the two covids of the hospital one will be built in my native Kruševec, which I am particularly proud of, because that is why a large number of citizens of Rasin County will get and employment, which we have always shown so far, all these years in power, to fight for everything that is in the interest of our citizens alone. In this case, this law with these proposed measures will solve and the problem of illness, to simply preserve the lives of not only the elderly, because I said I had personal experience, from the environment, people who were completely healthy and completely young ended tragically precisely because they might not have believed in all of this. I would add that with this proposal and this adoption of the laws that we, I hope, during today and adopted, we were also bound, because, in addition to all those measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Crisis Staff implemented, it was necessary, unfortunately, and to implement this where we will have to comply with all the rules and we were not meant at all to raise people's awareness and responsibility by some penalties. What matters, as always, is important to us to save lives. What I want to say in the end is that we will continue to fight for our Serbia the way our President Alexander Vukic is fighting and that we will continue his policy, and what anti-maskers, quasi-patriot groups on social networks and all those who do not support this do not care, we know well who Serbia wants to go forward with and who it wants to win with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u623	Thank you. The next reported is Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u624	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, co-workers of ministers, co-workers and colleagues, it is obvious that changes to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases were necessary and suggest statistics and the situation in the field of previous days. We, these amendments and additions to the Law, actually specify the competences and determine the obligations of both local self-government and legal persons and entrepreneurs, but also citizens, on the other hand, define some rights of citizens that apply to when they get sick in these circumstances. My impression was, and the minister agreed this morning and said that a large number of citizens respect the current measures, the prescribed measures and recommendations that come from medical workers, but still a small number of people, whether because of irresponsibility, excessive relaxation or because they do not understand the seriousness of the situation, they do not respect these measures and thus put a large number of other people at risk, and thus they can do great damage. With us, the most unfavourable epidemiological situation, we see from day to day, in big cities, the situation has deteriorated in the last few days, but it's not just us. Many countries where the situation is worse have also reached repressive measures, such a situation in the UK, there has been a lock-down for a certain period, such a situation in Lithuania. In Britain, over 50,000 people were infected in one day, in Italy over 30,000 people, in Poland I think there were over 20,000 people infected in one day. We don't meet with problems like this for the first time this year. We've already had experience six or seven months ago, and it's important for us now that the health system works, that health capacities can come into contact and be at the service of the citizens of Serbia. I believe that the Ministry responded well in the first wave, that based on these measures, we have gained some good experience and that, above all, the directors of health care institutions and only the Ministry have drawn some conclusions based on this experience and therefore we have recommendations that we are applying today and what is most important, that we now seem to have reduced our chances to a minimum of infecting medical workers within the institutions themselves, within the framework of the hospitals themselves, and we all know that this would lead to the paralysing of the health system. On the other hand, we have to admit that health problems due to the coronary virus are not the only ones and are not the most difficult ones, but it still encourages the fact that all this time the health system is such that people with the most severe diseases are treated as uninterrupted as before the pandemic and this is primarily thanks to a good organisation and thanks to the sacrifice of doctors and nurses. It is obvious that our health care is stable, that it worked well both in March and in July and now it works well, but what we all have to ask ourselves is, will it be possible to do so suddenly? We have to ask ourselves what we can do to relieve the health system, so doctors, medical staff can take a breath, to keep doing their job as well as they have done so far. This is where we come up with the key question, which is responsibility, the responsibility of each individual. We have to be aware that we have to correct some of our life habits, at least for a while to be patient, to wait for a solution to this problem, it's not just our society, it's the problem of the whole world, and when the solution comes, it's going to be applicable to us. Finally, I must again point out that this really isn't a subject that needs to go to the field of populism, this isn't one field where political points will be collected. It's easy to criticize, but something needs to be done concretely and in practice. Once again, I urge all citizens to follow the measure, to follow the recommendations, because this way we will help ourselves, and we will help doctors and preserve ourselves and the entire health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u625	Thank you. Next reported is Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u626	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, the reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases stems from the need to overcome problems in the practice of applying the rules, as well as sanctions when these measures are not respected in practice. This law defines certain concepts that my colleagues have already spoken of, so that I would not talk about them, as they have spoken about many of the measures provided for and sanctioned, but I would refer to one concept called - the notion of personal protection against infection. I think it's one of the essential concepts, because when you tell our man it's something personal, like personal protection, he thinks everything he does is personal. It doesn't work, it does or doesn't, it only affects him and it's just his personal thing. I think this notion of personal protection against infection is much more than personal, which I would like to show right now. To show that I'm going to make one parallel between this law and the Traffic Safety Act. In fact, when we're looking for personal protection for individuals in traffic, we say that an individual who drives a motor vehicle must tie his seat belt for his personal safety or better safety, as well as when he drives a motorcycle we say you have to wear a helmet to make him safer. This law is not only aimed at protecting the health and life of the individual, because we all know who can protect the man from himself, because we know if someone doesn't want to do something he won't do, but this law is directed at something else, and it's the protection of our social, common health system, because whether someone wants to apply the rules or not, if there's any harm, both will be taken care of by the same health system. So when we talk about personal protection from infection, the list of things that the law refers to is increasing. I just said two, I'd say it again. So, in personal protection against infection, we have that the health and life of individuals who apply personal protection measures is very important. The other thing, which is also very important, is the protection of our health system, because the health system is getting overloaded as we see in the last few months because we have experience with it. The third thing, which is also important, is that this law, or personal protection against infection, protects and protects the health and lives of other people who can be indirectly threatened by those who do not want to apply the measures of personal protection. It's mostly our friends, relatives, neighbors, people we work with. Also, the fourth thing, which I think is also very important, we also protect non-covide patients, whose treatment for overworking the health system is difficult. These are patients who had some problems before the pandemic of the coronary virus and had to be treated. This way when the health system is loaded, that's how we put them at risk. The aim of this law, when we talk about personal protection against infection, is these four things that I said, not punishment, and it is our obligation, such as our obligation to all people who expect from the state to advise them and to guide how to get out of this situation healthyly, because the mental state of the nation is getting worse by constantly bombing over the media over the number of patients, which is often spoken by JS President Dragan Markovic Palm. Besides this type of people who expect it from the state and society and who apply personal protection safely there is another type of people who think these measures are unnecessary. They're probably based on certain theories, but if they're kept in the health system, they'll help them. So I appeal to them that if they don't want to do it for themselves, and they at least want to protect the health system, protect the health and life of the people they care about, as well as protect the non-kovide patients, and they apply these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u627	Thank you. The word has Goran Tasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u628	I am not ashamed of my title, Mr. Chairman, I am Professor Goran Tasic, Professor of the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, and I do not want to impress anyone with my title, but I expect you to refer to me as that. I would begin my presentation by quoting a Chinese proverb, that is, “if we are on a good path, if we are just sitting on it, we will certainly be run over. ” In the present situation, which has been imposed on us by the presence of a form of virus from the Covida Group 19, it seems to me that we are going around a little bit, although we have forgotten that we have to look at the signs along the way, which our great writer Ivo Andric warned us about, that we will lose this battle. I'm glad this law we're discussing today has clearly defined the coronary virus as an insufficiently known infectious disease. We, in spite of high and strong progress back 20 years of technology, technology and science, primarily think of industrial technology and informational, know basically a lot about coronary viruses. Thanks to the development of science, we knew to cope with many other forms of infectious diseases, where we met their cause, we learned a clinical picture, and we learned how to treat them. We know about the coronary virus, his architecturals. We know that it belongs to a pile of coronary viruses, but we are surprised that in this coronal gene of the virus is present and one part of the nucleic acid genome that synthesizes and many other viscous diseases that reduce the immune response of the organism and thus orderly order of fishnucleic acids that almost points to the accuracy of a cybernetic information system. That's why the danger of this virus is being looked at, it's really the danger of this virus, in being able to mutate, to adapt to the defensive properties of the organism. What does that mean? We've all been paying attention to respiratory infection, that the first problem is impaired breathing function, but these most severe patients, compared to or shortly with development of respiratory problems, develops in front of liver function, in front of the gastrointestinal tract function and ultimately renal insufficiency. So, the organism loses the battle, and worst of all, the organism fights itself. The fact is that the presence of Kovid 19 in the world's population has significantly changed the image of the world, but it has also united us and defined the typical profile of a human being. Our good qualities have come to the surface, our humanity in action, but there has been a lot of selfishness, which we are primarily discussing today, and even though most of us previous speakers repeat in some parts of our presentation, is not a set of people who convince the given story or tell the same song. We're just trying to focus on where the main problem is and how to find a solution. It really works, at least to us people who never knew about defeat and who at the most difficult moments thought that confidence and somewhat controlled haughtiness led to victory, we have to stop here, we have to use the voice of reason, even though all the analyses pointed to it, and we ourselves know that how long the virus was going to be in contact with persons who were either infected with a child or who were transferred, who had not so far, hopefully, and that we will not, means that basic application, routine application of masks and maintenance of personal hygiene is the least we can do for ourselves, and for others, and we have to remember those pictures of planes flying at altitude and when there is a problem that we first have to protect ourselves, and then we can help the child to be able of course, and I have a moral obligation to show high gratitude, high respect for my colleagues who are on the first line with Koi. They show, in addition to high expertise, that in addition to a sophisticated practice for which they have learned and which has now clearly come to terms, the superhuman efforts of endurance, and for that we in the health profession do not seek any gratitude, so we have studied, so we have decided, so we have taken the oath of Hippocrates, and therefore we are in the service of the people. I would also like to welcome this intensity to give young people a chance and to hire young people. What doesn't serve us honor, it's a period when in our impotence, both financially and realistic, we weren't able to make the continuity of approval specialization, but you see, people, how important it is. We came to this situation that our leading export brand was the departure of young learned doctors abroad. That's what we have to take care of. We don't need to think of all that just when things are tough and difficult. The current minister and I witnessed a difficult period in the 1990s, when we had a similar and difficult situation, when at the Emergency Center, during that embargo period, one scanner only worked for six months, because someone from that West remembered that parts of the scanner could be used for those old radars, because both of them used X-rays, so we made improvisations, so we were able to manage and, of course, we were always in the front lines to help our people. I agree that criticism is necessary and the condition for progress in medical practice is just a criticism. At our conventions, conversations aren't as parliamentary as they are here. And as there's a dispute, here's what I'm going to say to the argument and the primitives, but from all that we're going forward. We can't be locked up in an entire and isolated continent now that won't be ready for criticism, to accept criticism, but one is criticism, and the other is malice. Why do I want to say this? We see today that 30 years ago has been the most advanced, actually, information technology, but look at what these statistics say again and how crowded social networks are with new information. While earlier the average user time for understanding some information was 12 seconds, today it is eight. The brain can't accept that anymore. I would agree with the previous speakers. I don't think we've politicized this Kovid disease by saying either that president of the government or the opposition or anyone else. There's a lot in the paper, there's a lot of stories -- there's a weird cure, there's a cure that'll solve everything. We have to take it as an inability to win, and it's clear. One treatment protocol was at the beginning of Kovid 19’s disease, and the other was significantly amended therapeutic protocol now. We are also witnessing that the virus mutated, that not a bit, as we now see with the increase in the number of infected, has not changed its equivalence, or that it has not changed its strength at all and the possibility of causing the disease. What I would like to point out, and where we seem to have made a mistake in some plans, I don't mean a mistake because we don't know, but simply because we wanted to make modern tendencies and what has been pointed out in cases of extreme disease, as it has been in Italy, Spain and other European countries. We need to get back to primary health care. We need to get back to our health homes, we need to allow these people to have closed diagnostic protocol, not just routine examinations, not just laboratory analysis, but adequate diagnostics, ultrasound, radiological, and even scanners. This will, in fact, have much more impact on the prevention on the one hand not only of Kovid, but also on the other hand, we will increase health security, health enlightenment, and in the end of the line and extend the century. As we said, we are witnessing it, as is the fact that we are one of the oldest nations in the world. We must not forget this, we must not close our homes of health. Before Kovid we came into a situation that, and it should, we can't be direct healers to be away from the patient, but we've come into a situation, so some say investment, let's just not accept it, but that the patient can directly come to a therapeutic institution without any performed diagnostic procedure. Of course, we were in a difficult situation and economic situation, and now she's going for better, a little bit at a time, but primary health care needs to be our basis. Why am I saying all this? If we're not rational and we don't get a little serious and we're not on this path where I say again, we're building signs by the road, so don't bring in Serbian medicine to think like it's in the conditions of war medicine and war surgery, these are difficult conditions. That one who has not experienced it cannot understand, and the overcrowded capacity in such conditions, not with us, but anywhere in the world the first postulate is to first help those who have a chance. Just with these simple measures, I don't support sanctioning measures, if they're extorted, what do we do, but these simple measures, wearing a mask, keeping our hands clean, we'll give everyone a chance. Guys, it's impossible to endure. It's impossible for any machine to withstand this much load. Do you know how much time is wasted on a machine that's very important to our patients? I wouldn't want to be like someone who's tutoring here, who's acting important. I think we should support our health care system. I accept that there may have been some stupidity, but I mean media response, and I accept that, but it certainly didn't affect, nor could it affect the quality of the treatment. Most importantly, our quality of treatment is good. The results are clear and it's for every praise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u629	I thank Professor Goran Tasic. It's only about your remarks two sentences. For you and all the other MPs, the list of Members of the People's Parliaments declared for the word is formatted in a way that I suppose is identical to that of the one you see in the e-parliament. So by name and last name, no titles, that's why everyone's read just like that today. I'll do my best to remember your note, of course. I'm just asking you to have an understanding for someone who might possibly be running a session for me. To facilitate the work of everyone, I ask the staff to prepare the sessions from now on to format this list with the corresponding titles, so as the MPs are also listed on the official site of the National Assembly, in line with the comments made. Next reported is Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u630	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill of utmost importance for all of us. The reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the need to overcome the problems encountered in practice when applying the measures to prevent and spread the coronal of the virus. Also, this law places Kovid-19 disease, which causes SARS-COV2 virus on the list of infectious diseases subject to epidemiological surveillance and implement measures to prevent and combat the spread of the disease. We are witnessing this crisis caused by the coronary virus, which is reflected in all segments of our society. He suffers both economics and health care and economics, but each of us also suffers from this crisis caused by the coronary virus. We also witness the responsible leadership of the country headed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and all the results we can be only proud of today. With respect to all the measures taken by the Crisis Staff, we were able to maintain stable finances. This is also evidence of the budget rebalancing that we have voted today, which envisions two new hospitals, the support of the health sector, but also investment in the economy, agriculture, capital investments. I can't help but mention that we're going to have the smallest economic downturn in Europe. Thanks to the responsible majority who respects the recommended measures, we have avoided the catastrophic scenarios that we have had the opportunity to look across Europe and that we are looking at today. It is because of this majority of responsible citizens, who respect all measures, that we also bring this law, to protect them from the unconscious, from those for whom this virus does not exist, from those who think they are above the state and above the profession. We've seen a struggle for every life, doctors who work 12 hours in suitors. Each of us, unfortunately, knows at least one person who was infected with this virus. The virus, therefore, exists, and we don't bring this law to punish anyone, but to save people's lives. I appeal to everyone to act responsibly in the next period, respect the recommended measures, protect ourselves primarily, but everyone around us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u631	Thank you and congratulations on your first address at the House of the National Assembly. The following has been reported by Dragana Brankovic Mincic. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u632	Dear Chairman, thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, distinguished citizens, I address you as someone who comes from practice. I am the director of the Apothecary Zaječar Institute with many years of experience, not only in practice, but also in management. I can responsibly argue that the adoption of one of these laws at this point is of paramount importance, not only for our population, but for all of us who work in primary health care. What is very important is that this law clearly defines certain parameters, such as home isolation, quarantine in domestic conditions, personal protection against infection, etc. In this way, we health care professionals who face various concerns in everyday practice, especially when it comes to infection, will be much easier to communicate with our patients. This law also defines both obligations and rights, as well as the ingenuity of all in the entire fighting chain against the herds. This is very important and will mean the next day to the sanitary inspection, the communal inspection, as well as the municipal police on the ground to make it easier to operate and to exercise control. Sanitary inspectors are a little, not a little bit of them, all inspectors are definitely a little bit, but in such conditions that can't be called regular but extraordinary, no matter how many sanitary inspectors, there would be few. So it is very important that the sanitary inspection under these conditions is strengthened by the work of the municipal police and the municipal inspection. What the law does at the end, those are criminal provisions. It is also very important and the implementation of these criminal provisions is one of the measures that we can be very effective in this very difficult struggle. I must say that the adoption of this law is of paramount importance for us healthcare professionals who work in primary health care and who are in daily communication with our users of services, and we are also in daily communication with our local self-governments. This law clearly defines the obligations of our local self-government, because this is a team fight, a team effort to fight Lovid. As for our users of services, our patients, I have to say that there are those who reserve protection measures, safely use masks, respect the distance and everything else that goes along with it, but there are also those who, after all this time, claim that this is all a conspiracy theory. That is why the role of pharmacists and all those healthcare professionals who work in primary health care is very important in the health education of our population. We work daily on this education of our population, but right now our role is even bigger and stronger and we have to fight as hard as possible to have as much communication as possible with our population in the fight against Kovid. With all due respect to doctors, all doctors, there is no further discussion that they are unimpeached in this fight against Kovid, I also want to point out the role of pharmacists, all pharmacists, pharmaceutical technicians who, at the time of the emergency, brought great burden in the fight against Kovid. I don't just mean my institution, the Apothecary Institute of Zaječar, I mean all the pharmacists in the country of Serbia. As far as my facility is concerned, we've provided pharmaceutical health care for 42 villages belonging to Zajecar. Of course, in cooperation with local self-government. That's where we showed our socially responsible business. Social responsibility and socially responsible business and socially responsible behavior are very important in today's time, not just for pharmacists, but for the complete citizenship of the country of Serbia. What I have to say in the end is also that Apothecary Zaječar has its galenical laboratory and under the conditions of occasional deficit of certain pharmaceutical preparations and disinfectants we covered the market from Subotica to Presevo and Bujanovac. Our preparations were all over Serbia. Our galenical lab worked day and night, 24 hours a day. For those of you who are not from my branch and who don't know what a galenical laboratory is, it's a small drug factory that produces, in fact, that can't possibly replace the pharmaceutical industry, nor does it want, of course, but it produces everything that's inconclusive for the pharmaceutical industry, or in terms of disability, we cover the market so our patients don't feel the deficit. In the end, I want to say that I will support this law for our children in front of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u633	Thank you. Also, congratulations. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u634	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia who have been following us, Serbia has been struggling for eight months with the coronary virus, although in recent days we have had numbers relating to the number of infected, the number of deceased and the number on the respirators and they look scary, Serbia is fighting very well against countries in the region and compared to many European countries with this monster. This is why today's Law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law that we are discussing, is very important in order to complete the legal framework, but that each of us individually would have additional responsibility in relation to ourselves, in relation to the family and to our loved ones. What I must note and point out in my presentation, Minister Loncar is the fact that the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has always been one or two steps ahead of this pandemic, including this law. Even today, health care is two steps ahead of this pandemic when you said that the facilities in Belgrade were fully filled and that Belgrade and Belgrade women were infected with Kovid – 19 today had to be transported and moved to hospitals inland. In addition to what I'm saying, the fact is that we have two hospitals, one in Batajnica, one in Kruševec, and that in the beginning of next month and in the middle of next month, both will be open by the end of the year. I think it is very important to point out that the initial wind in the back, when it came to the struggle of the entire health system and all of us with this epidemic, was the engagement of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and his team at the beginning of this pandemic, because when there was a general abduction in the whole world for the respirators, we were not destitute. We're not weary of oxygen. As we prepare today for this exposure, I have information that five tons of oxygen is being spent daily at this point. Of course it also encourages this information that several of my colleagues have said, and President Vukic announced today at a press conference that Faiser's vaccine will reach us by the end of this year. It is important to point out that prominent American experts, from Germany, worked on it but that we, as a country within, as a member of the World Health Organization, funded all efforts to reach the vaccine. In addition to what I'm saying, I can't accept that one part of the opposition is politicizing everything that's going on all over the world and with us with the coronary virus. It is politicised by those at whose time the health system was completely destroyed, at which time doctors were unemployed, who were not building hospitals, the only thing I know is that in the Clinical Centre of Serbia they replaced the windows. So this is all inadmissible. I must point out that the competitions for doctors and medical staff have been opened non-stop, that the budget rebalance provides for additional funds in the fight against Kovid. Like I said, hospitals are building up, rebuilding, that our hospitals are modernizing with machines, and that everything that's going on in battle with this epidemic has not interfered with the capacity of our health system. I wanted to say we were very lucky. In fact, there was one great work, one complete strategy of the government, the ministry, the President of the Republic, that capacity was to raise the entire health system. Imagine that in those conditions that were eight, ten years ago, we welcomed this pandemic. It would simply be incomprehensible to function at all. It is fortunate that we are no longer, when it comes to our health system, at the beginning of the country scale in Europe. So we've raised that scale high above and we're now one of five countries in Europe that is successfully fighting, regardless of all the mistakes we've had and all the problems we're facing, with this pandemic. When it comes to economic growth, we are the first country in Europe to grow economically. This has contributed to all the fiscal consolidation measures we had in the previous period, but also to these measures in the course of the pandemic itself, which is directed to both the citizens of Serbia and our economy. In this situation, when we fight daily for the lives of our citizens and try to maintain our economy, it is unacceptable to have daily attacks on the institution of the Serbian president, personally, on his family. It was scary for me, although I've heard so much so far, that Pink TV was also called "the yellow house", not to mention this shameful graphite that was in Novi Sad yesterday, tied to Dr. Kona and which thanks to the city authorities in Novi Sad was quickly and removed. That is why I call on our competent authorities on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, who are appalled by the invitation to kill Dr. Kon, to react and to find the perpetrators of this disgusting act as soon as possible. I call on citizens and citizens of Serbia to always keep in mind and to think that it would look just one day in Serbia with those who daily call for violence and lynch. In voting day, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u635	Thank you. The word is Nikola Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u636	Respected Serbian citizens, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable fellow MPs, in the Republic of Serbia, the first case of Kovida was registered on March 5th of this year, and since then, our country's constant struggle with this invisible enemy, and the state of Serbia, headed by our President Aleksandra Vukic, is doing everything to protect and preserve the population. All over the world, there's a bunch of contagion. It is an alarming situation in Europe, where many countries have introduced restrictive conditions and restrictive measures, from mandatory masking to partial or complete quarantine. There is no better situation in the surrounding countries, which record a dramatic number of infected, but also the number of deaths. Unfortunately, Serbia is also recording alarming figures these days. We are better than most countries in Europe in the efficiency of fighting Kovid, but that is not enough. We want to save every life, fight for every man. As a large number and the consequences of the infected, we have enormous pressure on our health facilities, where the capacities are slowly filling up, where the number of checks in Kovid hospitals is increasing and this increases from hour to hour. Today we are witnessing that our relatives, our friends, and not some acquaintances, have suffered from this insidious disease, as was the case before. This speaks of the seriousness of today’s situation, and that is why it is necessary for us to be responsible. That is why today we are considering a proposal to amend and supplement this law, because of a comprehensive situation, which is necessary for us to adopt. The goal is to gain more respect for the measures, to reduce the number of infected and the number of dead. We have to measure this law well, put it on scale, but put it on scale and results. The result is where more safe use of protective measures, masks, distances, disinfections, as well as gatherings will be used to reduce the number of infected and dead. Let's forget for a while about celebrations, birthdays, parties and wearing masks in city transports, indoors, keep a distance. It is a prerequisite for no one to suffer the consequences, but also to reduce the number of infected. We can't stop this unless we're acting extremely responsible. The majority of the population adheres to the prescribed measures. Unfortunately, however, we also have those who are irresponsible, who threaten not only themselves, but also people in their environment. The state of Serbia is making huge efforts, both human and financial. I note that the measure of the promoter is not to take someone's money with fines, but to make people come to their senses. Mr. Minister, I have listened very carefully to you and this information that you have presented today, related to the number of patients in Belgrade, is alarming. Mr. Minister, at the same time, I would like to commend your RES and everything you do today, and especially your order to receive healthcare workers, about 1,300 of them, as well as a special so-called. Kovid stimulates healthcare professionals, who work under difficult conditions and give special importance in suppressing the pandemic. I'm glad you commended today, along with doctors and medical technicians, and drivers, cleaning women, waitresses, technical staff, who, together with the administration, form a continent in a common fight against the pandemic. I also ask you to consider some of the requirements of the health care facility in Pomorava County, which have referred to the Ministry of Health for the reception of workers due to the pandemic. President Aleksandar Vucic announced the phenomenal news today – that Serbia has already provided millions and 800,000 doses of vaccines against covids, which will be available to citizens after all necessary checks by the end of December. The state is doing everything it can, and the adoption of the Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases will circle that fight. That is why I support this proposal as it is given for adoption, and I call on the citizens of Serbia to make their own contribution. When I say that, I mean mostly those who spend the nights in cafes and rafts, not respecting measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u637	Thank you. The word is Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u638	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will vote in favour of the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, both because of the need to preserve the lives of our citizens and the economy. Because when we talk about economics, we can't let one thing out of our sight. As you all know, many highly developed European countries have experienced a real economic collapse over the past few months. What is important to point out is that this economic collapse preceded a complete breakdown of their health system, a failure of the health system that contributed to a complete hopelessness in which people found themselves, and when it does, there is no story about the economy, then no one is interested in the economy. We are here all the time facing the need to apply two kinds of measures. On the one hand, those measures that suit more favourable epidemiological situations, and on the other hand do not benefit economies and measures that are good for the economy, but are not so good for the epidemiological situation. What is the greatest success of our country in the past few months, which we can thank for the fact that we have the best growth of the economy in Europe, that we have managed to preserve jobs, that we have managed to even raise the average wage while at the same time improving our health system and that we have a relatively favourable epidemiological situation compared to the rest of Europe, is that we have managed to find a balance between these measures, which is not easy. I think that's exactly why we need to be particularly careful right now, because eight months behind us, eight very difficult months, and we can't allow now at this point to make a mistake that can lead us to some bad situation in the next period, especially now that we're very close to finally getting that effective vaccine, and when the light comes to an end of the tunnel, we can't afford to have a breakdown of our health system, because then every story about the economy will be illusory. In addition to all of this, what I have to say is that in the previous months, we have been faced with another major problem, with another major anomaly, which is one group of political vultures who saw the covid as their chance to pick up some political point and eventually reach power. Literally, they have not missed a single moment not only to attack Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government and the Crisis Staff, they have not missed a single moment to attack even doctors, who are currently doing the hardest work. We remember here in July, we had attacks on the National Assembly, the breaking and burning of Belgrade, calls for the authorities to collapse, permanent analyses on some opposition media, that Serbia is the worst, that everyone in the region is better than Serbia, that everyone in Europe is better than Serbia, and then at some point the situation changed. The situation has changed and we have had significantly better results for several months than any country in the region, as well as in Europe. And then all of a sudden you can't see on all these TVs N1, Nova S and others, you can't see those analyses anymore, they don't care anymore. They don't deal with it anymore, because I guess the point is that Serbia is being told all the worst. I guess the worse Serbia is, the better for them. In particular, I have to say that this is another reason why, despite all the problems we have with both the health situation and the economic situation, we have to deal with it. All of these results that our country has achieved in the past few months in the fight with this great problem are the reason that Serbian citizens have confidence in their country, that they trust even when a mistake is made, because I am convinced that there is no country in the world that has not sinned at least once during all these months of this great crisis. When we talk about sanctions themselves, I think they are necessary and that it is not possible to apply any rule if sanctions do not exist. There are sanctions in every kind of regulation. However, what can be discussed is when these sanctions are to be applied. Because if a citizen wears a mask all day long, so somewhere he accidentally forgets it or makes a mistake, if he's punished, it won't be a good message. And I think it's very important that those who enforce the law have this kind of feeling that they assess when sanctions are to be imposed, that they have a real purpose, and above all, that they have a purpose to motivate people to respect these measures as much as possible, because they are good, they just need one thing, and that's to apply them. If we apply them, we will manage to cope with this crisis, and we will also take care of our economy. I would especially like to appeal to young people who sometimes think they're very healthy and that the crown can't do anything to them, and maybe they're not even very wrong about it, but they need to make sure that they can accidentally, not intentionally, transfer the virus to someone who's old, someone who's sick and someone who can be fatal and that they respect the measures first and foremost, wear masks, because those masks protect others from us. I want to take the opportunity to thank all health care professionals, especially to point out health care workers at the General Hospital in Cačka and the House of Health in Cačka, and to thank them, because at this point, while we are here, every few minutes they have a checkup every few dozen minutes, they have a certain reception every few dozen minutes, and they're just afraid that at some point there's going to be a situation that more technical and physical they can't stand to deal with the sudden increase in the number of patients. That's the biggest reason why I think we need to be responsible, that this is a moment where we don't need to think about any personal comfort, but that we should also try some personal denial and collective responsibility to overcome some next period that will surely be difficult, and behind which, we all hope, some better times come. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u639	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u640	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, it is my great honor to address you as the youngest MEP from this high house for the first time. The first thing I want is for myself, and I believe in the name of my colleagues, to thank all the doctors, medical and medical staff in healthcare who, all these months of the day, are fighting for our health and health, all of us, as well as citizens. Of course, and those who have subordinated their lives to us and our lives. I believe that the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases will help to dissipate our entire health system, which is becoming more and more burdensome from day to day. This is only one measure to prevent the further spread of the epidemic, as well as the harmonisation of laws with the provisions and recommendations of the World Health Organization. Not to mention all the health and economic measures brought by our President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government and implemented, they are only proof that Serbia has come to this world problem in a responsible way. That's not what I say as an individual, that's what the figures in the world say. Much better and developed countries than ours have disastrous results on both economic and health issues. It's only part of what Serbian citizens recognized on June 21st this year in the elections. But I can't help but look back at the media owned by the political fossils of the former regime, which, throughout the global health crisis, deals with irrelevant things. In previous days, they were asking questions – what are the ministers looking for at the crisis headquarters, what is one member of the government, the government that fights every day for every citizen of this country, looking for at Crisis Headquarters for the fight against Kovid 19? They seem to have a problem with the fact that the competent person is a member of the Crisis Staff just because he is a minister, and not to forget the previous months and what is happening these days and these days as they constantly attack through their media doctors from the crisis headquarters and Dr. Kon and Dr. Tiodorović and Dr. Stevanović and Dr. Kisic Tepavcevic, and of course we are not talking about daily attacks on Minister of Health Zlatibor Lončar. These same media, while we were all fighting and praying to citizens to guard their health, invited citizens to protest and violate epidemiological measures, called for an attack on members of the Ministry of the Interior, to violent entry into this high house. They're all paid from the devastated budget of Old Town City City City, which we all know very much in what a desperate state it's taken over. It thus tells me that then President Marko Bastic, we know well and whose fullness, instead of standing in front of the public and helping citizens during their emergency, has set aside more than 14 million for new computers in the middle of the state of emergency, six million for office material on only 75 employees, which seems to have been very much working, I would not say, but that is why I am sure that the new leadership of the municipality headed by President Radoslav Marjanovic will bring back the old and lost glow to the central Belgrade municipality. All this is just proof of how much these political fossils are doing their part and trying to get their hands on the state budget again in front of the health and life of citizens. Of course, that's why people like that will only remain part of the dark political past. Each success of the state today represents one measure of failure of the former regime. For the end, I would like to thank President Aleksandr Vukic, the SNS and the citizens of Serbia who have allowed the voice of young people to be heard in this assembly. You first gave young people the right opportunity, showed them works that there is a future for them in this country. The surrender was never an option. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u641	Thank you, People's Parliament, and congratulations on your extraordinary first address. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u642	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I must say I have a somewhat controversial view of this law. Probably when a list of my esteemed colleagues is made up, that's why they wrote undetermined. Although I will vote for this law there are things I can say that I am in this law against them. So, I've stayed, conditionally speaking, undetermined, although that's not the case, and you'll understand what this is about after this brief explanation. I'm not going to engage in how well-qualified health terms are about quarantine, isolation and all that. All I can say is that by analyzing from my angle, and that's that legal angle, they're clearly defined in this law and they're not going to leave any dilemma of what's what. To this I congratulate my colleagues who worked to prepare this text. What I am not satisfied with in this law is very small penalties, and I will explain that in my next attitude and years of experience. The fines of 300,000 dinars for legal persons, 150 grand for entrepreneurs, 50 grand for responsible persons, 5,000 dinars for those who break the rules are no punishments, and here even I'm supposed to be looking for space in this law to define criminal legal liability. We are talking today about a very serious problem that we faced and that we can freely say is war, a war that lasted, which began almost a year ago and we don't know when it will end. The war must take care of all citizens and, above all, of the preservation of the head. We have come into a situation today to defend ourselves against the insolence and terror of the minority. The minority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in which we all agree more or less in this room, has brought all of us and all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia into the hall of hell. These are not measures against citizens who have respected the measures they recommend, not against those who are safe and responsible, but against those who bring their irresponsibleness before the collapse of the health system, the state, and I must say openly that they are ready to cause many deaths with their recklessness. For this reason, these penalties, as prescribed, are small. I'm going to vote for this law because this minority, these tiny souls, is simply too big for them and they're going to make this seem to me and I hope that we don't have to worsen the criminal policy against this one that's scheduled. On the other hand, I am glad that it is not only criminally prescribed responsibility, but also criminally, and since we MPs, nor those who have immunity are amnesty of criminal responsibility, we are of criminal responsibility, which is that this will apply to all of us, so I hope that it will apply to all the MPs who are in this room and who are currently not respecting the measures recommended by the crisis headquarters of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not wear masks or have walked without masks in the previous days, thus jeopardising the health of all those who are here and all those with whom we will have contact when we get out of here. A personal example is something that is irreplaceable and I'm afraid that we fight a battle with a pig that we're very good at on a health plan, we're losing on a personal case and we're losing on a media field. I must say, Mr. Minister, that I recommend that the crisis staff be measured in writing, whether it's a cyron, a slyffon, call whatever you want, every day they have to publish in all the media that have a national frequency, but written, not interpreted, because we have to put our hand on the heart that our respected doctors are not people who are of the media profession, and then in many situations they allow themselves to forget that they are studying and that the rude journalists, who are only interested in watching their televisions, answer their questions by forgetting that they are in the study, to be watched by millions of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, looking at patients who need to be persuaded to be treated. That's what anyone wants to put their hand on their heart and look at it will actually realize that all these alleged misunderstandings come out of it. Of course, difficult behavior produces that in a situation like this when we have not introduced an emergency, as we had since the spring of this year, depending on local self-government to local self-government, different rules of conduct apply and that is in accordance with the law. You know, if I go to Kragujevac right now, I'd really have to be, in some ways, simply familiar with the rules that apply to Kragujevac, what the Crisis Headquarters in Kragujevac has prescribed, what in Novi Sad, what in some other places to make this law as we vote absolutely clearly applicable to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I say, this is the struggle of terrors of rude and rude, and the impertinence of minorities over most, and we don't have it only in this, we have it in the fields of NGOs, media, whatever you want or don't want. But this is a fight to life and to death. This depends on how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia will suffer, how many will have lasting consequences, and how many will be left headless on their shoulders? Says someone, the fines are big, not true. Mr. Minister, tell me, how much is a hospital day for a patient who's on respirators? How much does it cost all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and with that, I apologize, I'll use a jargon term, they mock in one extremely irresponsible way. For that reason, I repeat, the sentences are small. Perhaps it was necessary to assess, think, that employers would treat us better and take care of the application of these measures, that the sick will be 100%, especially in situations that are unequivocally unequivocally infected at work, because they did not go to work to infect themselves, and we see that measures are not being carried out in the same way in all companies or businesses. Different employers act in different ways. Your Honor, there's something else I don't like, but I know it's necessary, and that's what community militias are directly involved in the application of this law. If we had time, I would be much more pleased that instead of giving them the authority to act in these cases, we have the opportunity to hire a lot more health health and other health inspectors who are involved in health care and care for the application of this. I hope that we will have the opportunity to change this in the foreseeable future, because with proper inspections and controls, we will get far more quality healthcare in the perspective. What is unequivocal is that Serbia's head is currently saving state health. The fact is that many private institutions have been involved actively to help, but if we hadn't saved public health, the question is whether we would have had the possibility of today even having patients who no longer have beds in Belgrade free, free beds, staying in another hospital, probably looking before today at those pictures like they were released from the West where people who didn't have money couldn't get into the hospital and that's something that has to be kept and cared for, and it's extremely important not only because of this, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to invest in new facilities, in public health and employment, all those people who had anything to do with health. Serbia needs to reach levels that some countries have, which is to get at least one doctor to less than 137 citizens. Then we will be calm and sure that we are nurtured as it suits Serbia. I say we from the Socialist Movement will vote for this bill. Please think about what I've told you about the media, who's going on TV, what's he saying, it's very important to insist, at least we can do it from the Public Service or RTS, to ask that leaders on all the shows show up with masks, because if we talk about Kovid, and we're not wearing a mask, we're sending a strong bad message. Does anyone believe or not believe in the existence of Kovid, that's his problem? Democracy is the rule of the majority over the minority. The minority is obliged to comply with the majority's decision or they will suffer the consequences. I can believe whatever I want and I don't want this to be done, and it's deliberately released, and this is war, and even if it doesn't exist, but as part of the government in this legislative case, I am obliged to respect those measures that the Republic of Serbia is carrying out when it comes to fighting Kovid 19. I can exercise my right in some other situation and my opinion elsewhere, but in the Assembly, but not on the street and nowhere but respecting tomorrow and this law, I have no right to behave differently. Dear Members of Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I just have one more thing to say in these relations between economics and health. An old folk saying says: "He who kept his head kept the house, who kept the house, did not keep his head." It is up to you ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Crisis Headquarters to find a measure between all of this, because Serbia must preserve both the head and the house. We will vote for this law and stand behind you in every way that these measures are implemented as soon as possible. To victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u643	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Nenad Barosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u644	I would like first of all to present to you the sense of sincere honor and great pleasure that I have the opportunity to address this magnificent people's tide for the first time, as a national MP, where I will discuss on the most important topic now, especially these days, which is the subject of amending and supplementing the law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases. As with any other legal act and any law, it is subject to certain modifications, which most often arise as a result of the appearance of certain internal or external manifests, i.e. the cause. The basic cause of the amendment of this law, the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Disease, is the spread of the Kovod 19 pandemic, caused by a coronary virus that practically devastated all the countries of the world, especially their economic and health systems, but to note that it took over a million lives. Unfortunately, as we all know, Kovid 19 has not bypassed our country either, but what we have to unmodestly praise is a timely, harsh response from the state that best-in-case directed the corona to the virus and prevented the outbreak of scenarios, as we had the opportunity to see in Italy, Spain and some other countries. We owe a special thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by the Prime Minister, you as a resolute minister who manages the ministry which is the most impacted, but of course also to the President of the Republic of Serbia, who in those initial, most difficult moments in a magical way, using all possibilities to provide certain means of protection, to provide adequate equipment, appliances, even though he was personally affected by the attack of this non-member, because we know, he was ill with the most difficult member of the family who, we will recall, was placed at the fair, like all other residents, who unfortunately got sick, without any privileged treatment or any other better status. But you won't mind if I put health care professionals in the first place who in the most cases put themselves and their families behind the desire to help the population and protect us all from spreading this infection. Of course, we owe gratitude to all those other persons, who directly or indirectly participated in the protection of the spread of the Kovid 19 infection. Today, more than clearly justified investment in the project "billion euros in health" launched by then by the Prime Minister, and now the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and through which the current government has built, or reconstructed, a really large number of primary and secondary healthcare institutions, i.e. numerous health homes, general hospitals, hospital covids, clinics, etc. We will agree that no law, nor any other legal act, can predict any situation that may occur in practice. Simply, it can be viewed in different ways, even as a living organism. The needs of amending the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases are, as we have heard, the problematic practical application of certain measures, then, unfortunately, insufficient number of sanitary inspectors, which cannot at present, given the size of the job, that in the best way possible responds to all the requirements and, of course, we give the possibility to some other state authorities to resort to aid, it is of exceptional importance or importance, and of course by this law we raise that minimum amount of fines, because in practice, the courts have shown themselves to be in these minimum legal penalties and amounts at the time of judgment, so logically imposing a question of whether such amounts can affect the perpetrator of the offence and whether they will deter him, both him and someone who has not yet committed the same act. The reason for the urgency of adopting this law, given the current epidemiological situation in the country, does not need to be specifically commented, and that there is no reason for urgency in the adoption of these amendments and additions, believe that we would endanger the lives and health of people, the organisation of state authorities, the services, but also the security of the country. When it comes to concrete amendments to the law, I would like, Minister, to comment on them and to give answers to certain questions and to resolve certain concerns, all of which are well-intentioned to make it easier for the public and the citizens to understand the provisions themselves, their meaning and to act more adequately in accordance with the measures, decisions and orders spoken. Therefore, the first amendment is provided for in Article 2. The law, which protects against infecting the territory of the Republic of Serbia, defines the notion of a state with an unfavourable epidemiological situation. This is quite good that we have defined the notion of a country with an unfavourable epidemiological situation, because it aims to limit the movement of people, i.e. travellers in international traffic from countries affected by the coronary virus, all with the aim of preventing the introduction and spread of infection in our country and, of course, to worsen the current epidemiological situation. It remains unclear how you will bring this measure to the Bureau's proposal, whether there are clearly prescribed criteria, parameters, conditions under which a particular country will be considered epidemiologically unfavourable, or whether you will use the principle of reciprocity. What is also imposed as a question is the international transport of goods and services, which on the one hand cannot stand because of the economic situation and economic activity, and on the other hand may be in a conflict with certain measures that are expressed, or which can be said for those countries that are in an unfavourable epidemiological situation. I assume that the government, on a proposal from the ministry, will regulate these issues in more detail. Also, in Article 2. We have an amendment that adds point 19a) that defines personal protection against infection, where an individual is now obliged to take personal protection measures, therefore, due. It is a good point, because simply an individual is placed in the epicenter of this obligation and now having a duty is actually a sort of foundation on which it is possible to impose a particular convention, i.e. a certain sanction. The same very good solution is that points 25a and 26a are added in the same article of the law) which finally defines the concept of home isolation, i.e. quarantine in domestic conditions, because in practice there was a problem precisely because of the lack of definition of these concepts who is obliged to respect these measures, who determine them, in which way etc., which is now finally and resolved. It is also good that Article 5 of the category "other diseases" adds Kovid-19 as a tax on the listed disease, because we simply do not know how much longer we will be faced with this problem. Article 13 adds another point which states that during the epidemiological study, epidemiology specialists are designated as contacts they are required to comply with the prescribed measures and instructions set out by that specialist. What can occur as a problem in practice is the fact that a large number of local self-governments, i.e. health homes and general hospitals do not have an epidemiology specialist, so a large number, possibly large number of patients requiring an epidemiological examination, will happen to be sent at the same time to the first institution to which these local self-governments belong territorially, so the question will be asked whether it is feasible that in one institution where there exist, let's say, three epidemiology specialists are examined at the same time 50 or 100 patients, that we are not talking about the problem of sanitary transport, etc. Article 31 paragraph 6 is also amended where employees are determined that, in addition to sometimes compensation, there is now a salary compensation, in accordance with the law, and the only solution of the sanitary inspector is actually proof of temporary prevention for work. This is an extremely good measure in which the state actually protects employees from possible unpopular actions that would be either abuses taken by employers towards employees. Not to touch all amendments, because I will prevent the other speakers, or other MPs, from carrying out their own vision of these changes and the addition of the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, and I will refer to the personal protection against infections in Article 46a, which defines the concept of personal protection itself, and determines that legal persons and entrepreneurs who exercise activity in facilities where other persons are obliged to take measures to protect themselves from infection, which is fine, and to determine the person, the only person, responsible for the direct application of these measures. What can occur as a problem in practice is the fact that one person, or one employee designated by the employer as responsible for the direct application of these measures, in practical application, is difficult to send adequate action, especially if it is a legal person or entrepreneur operating in several rooms, in multiple facilities, or has defined his work in several shifts. I guess the law maker meant multiple faces, or he thought that a particular person defines some additional colleagues as people who will monitor the implementation of the measure. On the other hand, what is controversial is the fact that the employee appointed by the employer as responsible for the direct application of the measure can be the face of a different professional profession and a different degree of professional preparation, so the question is, can he adequately assess whether certain action or inaction, open and closed conduct, and similar enough to prevent or suppress the spread of infectious disease, i.e. to protect their own and other health, as well as life? Controlling the implementation of these measures has been seen to be able to now carry out sanitary inspection, but as a newspaper, it is now being introduced that this control can also be carried out by municipal inspection and municipal militia. This also raises a question of a moment, whether municipal inspection and municipal militia have sufficient knowledge, sufficient personal competences and skills, certain training to adequately assess whether personal protection measures are being carried out in one proper way, because we will agree, this law does not only apply to the current pandemic Kovid-19 or the coronary virus, but also to other infectious diseases where, as protection measures, it may not be prescribed simply to wear masks, the presence of a certain number of people on a certain surface, but also to other far more complex measures, depending on the type of infection, where, besides visual demands and a number of other abilities to determine respect for the measures. Also, I hope that by prescribing the near conditions, the government will redefine or edit this area in more detail. It is very good that in Article 53a), the government of the Republic of Serbia may be able to implement certain measures, reducing the procedure necessary for sometimes mandatory and urgent measures, which is of paramount importance. What was absolutely necessary and significant, given the number of sanitary inspectors and their size of work, is that jurisdiction should be entrusted to other state bodies, as we have said, to the municipal inspection and to the municipal police, and as appears in Article 73(2), where point 16 is added). Except for those possible problems that I mentioned when I talked about their personal competences, skills, skills, training and the like, there are still possible problems here in practical application. As for controlling the implementation of measures by the municipal militia, there will be no excessive problems. Problems will arise in those units of local self-government where there is no education department of the municipal militia. So, next to the sanitary inspection, surveillance will also be carried out by a municipal inspection. Therefore, the communal inspector shall have the power, inter alia, to issue an infringement order, to submit a report to the competent authority for the offence committed, i.e. a request to initiate the infringement procedure and to inform the other authority of the reasons for taking the measures for which that authority is responsible. What first appears to be controversial is the question of identifying the perpetrator of a criminal offence by a municipal inspection. Then sometimes the necessary detention in the event of non-compliance by a municipal inspector by the perpetrators of the offence and the arrival of competent state authorities, I am exceedingly thinking of the MUP, etc. The question is whether point 3 of point 4 is which the municipal inspector informs the other authority of the reasons for taking the measures for which that authority is in fact the special authorisation to retain a particular person, limit his freedom of movement or perhaps use physical force. If that is the case, then the question arises whether the municipal inspector is sufficiently dressed, technically equipped, etc. for the implementation of the measures for which the other body is competent? What may need to be considered, although this may seem irrelevant at this time, is the adoption of a certain regulation, which in some countries is resolved by law, where implementation will be defined for citizens of important events, just like weddings, celebrations, funerals, organizations of certain manifestations, any cultural, sports, religious gatherings, etc., because very often in practice such cases occur, which I do not justify personally, but which are not sufficiently detailed, where citizens in their own hands, interpreting the provisions of their own opinion and belief, are infrequently violating the protection measures and risking their own health and life. At the very end, personally, as an MP, I will support this amendment to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, by which an even more precise way is governed by the area of protection of the population, especially in the case of certain epidemics or pandemics of a particular infectious disease, as is the case now. As Minister, I want to talk to you soon about some other topics that are not related to Kovid 19 and know that we are proud of you and all health care professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u645	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u646	I thank you for all your questions. I'm going to try not to keep some dilemma, very specifically, and simplify everything that can lead to a dilemma with our citizens. As to how we will assess whether anyone is at risk of entering Serbia from a country, we will assess it based on the state of the country. We have no intention of playing some reciprocity or anything, of playing some politics, of just watching if the citizens of Serbia are at risk, of whether there are too many people who are infected and if we're getting someone who wants to come into our house, what needs to be done out of the question so that this one gets in so that it doesn't bring the disease. So, on that principle, it's going to work. It will absolutely be a smooth flow of goods. That was in the first pick, the second pick. We just don't see... It hasn't been proven that when the goods go, when this transport takes place and all that stuff, there's been any problems. That's where we made clear the rules for the people who drive those trucks, who drive that stuff. It's regulated, it turns out, okay. There was no problem. We don't want to stop it, there's no point. As far as personal responsibility is concerned, we think it's the basis of everything, because without it we can talk as much here as you want, there won't be any effect. The responsible person, to be clear, every firm, every bar, restaurant must have a responsible face. How they will organize each other, of course no one expects that responsible person to work 24 hours every day, but he is responsible and he is in charge of the organization and to wash out what is happening. If we let more responsible faces or something, we would never get to the finish line. It would always be that story – it's not me, it's me, it's this one would say – it's not me, it's him. So that's it. Each will determine, according to its work or operation, on the basis of all of the parameters that it has, who is the responsible person, and this responsible person is also assigned to the organisation of the work. That's the point. I just want everyone to understand one thing, so we don't do this to prove that we have someone. We're not lawyers, we're doctors. That he's a great lawyer, that he's someone who understands those laws and all that. We're doing this out of necessity and we just want to stop the expansion of the crown, to enable the law that exists to apply. That's the point. What we are leading to is to reach the minds of citizens, those who are irresponsible, who are only just becoming responsible when they know they can be sanctioned. That's what it's all about. We wanted to simplify it, because our health inspector... To understand Serbia's citizens what it looks like. When they come to a place that doesn't respect the measures, it takes them between 45 minutes and 15 minutes to make an adequate record that will pass tomorrow in court. If you have a place that we've limited it to work until 11:00 and the health inspector comes at 23.10, then he can't finish at that one place before midnight and he's required to go, to visit other places, because tomorrow, as it was formulated, everything he's done, if he came and said, you don't respect the measures, we'll close or something like that, tomorrow it would all fall in court, because it wouldn't be respected the procedure of filling the records, which is necessary. There, that was the point. Now we're just shortening this time. We call for the help of similar services to help make us more efficient. Don't let us be on the side of those who will consciously break time. We won't get anything if we look from their angle and look for holes in the law and everything. That's not the point. Then we didn't do anything. If we look to justify those who already know and seek justification to break the measures, that it will not be an adequate punishment, that they will not honor, that they will fall in court, that they will go to this court, that they will go to that court, that if we look at it, we have dozens and hundreds of infected, because they will not respect the measures. Absolutely not the point. The bottom line is what I said, to simplify, to be practical, to stop the expansion of the crown, to save people's health and lives. Please let's look at it that way and participate in it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u647	Thank you. The next reported was Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u648	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic, respected Minister Loncar with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, Serbia is today falling, has the smallest decline in Europe, when it comes to GDP compared to the whole of Europe, of 1.5%. In a worse position are many of us and many EU countries, such as Bulgaria, which is down 4%, Northern Macedonia – 5.4%, Hungary – 6.1%, BiH – 6.5%, Croatia which is down by 9% and Montenegro, which is down by as much as 12%. Serbia, therefore, is in a much more favourable situation, recovering the economy, recovering the service sector, growing economy and recovering industrial production, and it is very important that as a state and as all of our relevant institutions continue with such positive trends both in the future and in the next period. It is therefore important that we today, as MPs, discuss amendments and additions to a very important law. It's about the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, to continue to worry about the health of our citizens, to preserve our health system and to preserve our economy, our country's economy. Many MPs spoke of the newspaper in this law, I simply do not want to repeat myself. The basic newspaper is heading towards that the sanitary inspectors so far on the ground were very little and that it is necessary to include other institutions and other bodies that will deal with the control of measures and real implementation in practice. In future, in our cities, both Belgrade and other cities and municipalities and municipal militias will take care of the implementation of these measures, they will be able to write misdemeanor orders to citizens who do not comply with these measures, such as mandatory use of masks. We really need to have one good legal framework. I could say that this existing law that we adopted in 2016 was good, and now it's good, but we have to take care of every detail, to introduce newspapers and new concepts, such as home isolation and home quarantine, in order to really as a state of Serbia give an adequate response to the pandemic of the coronary virus that really hit the whole world and Serbia is not immune. It is true that our hospitals are full, but that a lot of this has been taken over by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a total of eight months by the pandemics of the Crown of the Virus in Serbia so that we do not experience a collapse of the health system that we could really see in the world media and in much more developed countries and much richer countries than the Republic of Serbia. I am truly giving credit for everything that was done in the previous period, Mr. Lonchar. Both the Ministry of Health and the President of the Republic of Serbia have indeed been on the ground day and night. You've been tracking every possible situation that's been going on. You've really given adequate answers every day. Here you are, and now you're, I'd say, two steps ahead, and when it comes to the opening of new hospitals and when it comes to further investment in the health sector. I want to inform all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who may not have accompanied, that the construction plan is, that during the construction of two special Kovid hospitals in Belgrade, it is Batajnica settlement, but also in Krusevec and that the state of Serbia has singled out nine billion dinars. We will not only stop at the equipment and construction of new hospitals, we will equip and new general hospitals, we will equip health homes and we will indeed make every effort as a state to show that we have enough equipment, that we have enough medical equipment, that we have enough medicine, and that we will really provide adequate medical care for every patient in Serbia. It also looks forward to the fact that we are really recording records when it comes to the construction of new hospitals in Batajnica and Belgrade and that this hospital will be open, as far as I learned from the media on 2 December, that the hospital in Kruševec will be open in mid-December of this year and that we will have new health facilities, which is very important to us at the moment to protect the lives of all our citizens. Also, I want to say that these hospitals will really be equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, that we will have enough respirators, oxygen bottles, anaesthesia machines, but also all that is necessary for our patients to really have adequate conditions for providing adequate healthcare. I would say that indeed many countries and the EU at this point can envy us for such good results. Also, I would like to say that this may be a moment for ourselves and as MPs and as ordinary citizens of this country to ask some questions and to be honest in these answers - have we done enough for our citizens as individuals? What are the conditions in our hospitals and our Kovid hospitals, and what were the conditions, say, ten years ago? Do we have enough medical equipment? How are we doing, what is this practice in Serbia, and how are some other countries doing, much more developed countries in the region? Some of them are EU members. I can say with pride that Serbia has had an adequate response to the coronary pandemic of the virus, that among the first countries we have obtained respirators and all the necessary medical equipment, protective masks, disinfectants, scuffanders and other protective equipment, that indeed, from the first day in Serbia, we have respected the word profession, that we have had good co-operation and with our Chinese partners, that we have followed all the necessary recommendations and that it has really been no shame to hear and what our foreign partners, our friends from China can offer us as an experience that we will implement and implement in our country. We started opening temporary Kovid hospitals throughout Serbia. In Belgrade, they were hospitals at the Fair, but also in the Arena and in all other cities. In the municipalities, temporary hospitals were opened because we wanted to show that perhaps if there was no capacity in Kovid hospitals, we have in temporary hospitals. So, indeed, every citizen, whoever addressed some medical facility for help, no citizen was rejected, all received adequate health care. We must not forget the results of the government in the previous period. We have equipped with the help of our Chinese friends one of the most modern laboratories in the Balkans, I would say. It's about the Fire Eye lab, and we've done a lot of work. This actually led us to the fact that at one point we could really quickly carry out as many tests as possible and thus quickly discover and come up with results that are positive patients for Kovid, Serbian citizens. Maybe I'm emotional at this point, forgive me for that, I really want to show one true respect for all those heroes, all those doctors, health workers, medical staff, nonmedical staff, all those volunteers who since 16 March since the emergency situation in our country has really been called and provided an unreserved, unsavory struggle. We saw yesterday when some of them were rewarded with the brightest medals, medals, which represent some kind of reward for all that and recognition for all that they did for our country. Some have given their lives in that struggle. These are not only the awards that President Aleksandar Vucic made as a token of gratitude for solidarity, humanity, for professionalism in this pandemic. Those awards will be awarded for the Meeting. I come from Go Rakovica and I know what that health system used to look like. I can tell you that the people of Rakovica waited for more than 50 years for a modern home of primary health care that we opened together, I will remind you, in October 2017 and where now more than 40,000 patients in the settlements in Rakovica can receive medical adequate care. We can never forget this, this human dimension that we, as a people, are really showing more and more in difficult times. That's why today I was sick of a statement from a national MP who said we didn't need press conferences for the crisis headquarters, that those experts sitting at conferences, who gave answers to questions to journalists, were spreading fear, and that's not necessary. On the contrary, I believe that these conferences are necessary and that such statements by irresponsible MPs will in no way benefit us from either our economy or our economy or our health care and health care in Serbia. So, simply, it's for every conviction. Also, this human dimension, as a people we have shown throughout history and in this first wave of crowns in Serbia, I can really say that a large number of volunteers and businessmen have been calling us every day in the municipality, and I believe that such stories, and that today we can hear all 250 MPs here, tell their stories about what they did from 16 March to today, how they helped their fellow citizens and how they fought with all the state institutions against this vicious virus, against the pandemic Kovida-19. At the very end, it is important that we continue to work, it is important that we amend this law and it is important that we continue to ensure all of those necessary conditions that the Serbian economy continues to function despite the pandemic of the virus. It encourages the news that we heard from Finance Minister Mr. Malio, that as a country we will indeed continue with both foreign direct investments and next year, that foreign investors will not bypass our country because Serbia was a leader in Southeast Europe. It also encourages the news that we will continue to increase wages and pensions in the following year. We continue to fight this vicious virus, because it is very important that we become responsible for ourselves, but also for others, to ensure that Serbia continues to live. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u649	Thank you. National MP Djordje Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u650	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases and Ideas, the objective, the intensity of this law, is to define, in substance, a legislative framework in which the state will work in the coming period to prevent the spread of severe coronary disease. In this law it is clearly defined both what Kovid-19 is and how and how home isolation is defined, quarantine in domestic conditions, the length of the duration of the same and to whom it applies in fact, but also who enforces sanctions in the event of non-compliance with such rules. It is clearly defined, therefore, that it is both sanitary inspection and municipal inspection and municipal militia in those local self-governments in which it is defined to exist, but also members of security forces, such as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. What's important, and in the last few days it's been going through the media, these worn-out politicians say this is a repressive character law. Well, it's not. This law is not a repressive character for a simple reason because seven, eight, nine months last we have this situation, it's not just us, it's the whole world, this situation around the crown virus, and we know and we're aware and we're ready for everything that the Crisis Headquarters draws, and that means keeping a certain distance and wearing a mask in a closed space and everything else. The people are aware of it and they're carrying it out. This here is for those irresponsible, or at least for those who advocate certain attitudes to enforce sanctions for such people who do not respect this law. Another important thing, the law is not a repressive character, but it's purely preventive. It is important to note in the coming period that we work to develop collective consciousness, but also to work on social responsibility. As I was saying, this virus didn't just happen to Serbia, but to all mankind, and we all found ourselves together in this situation. However, Serbia has shown in the last period that it can come out of severe crises, from difficult situations, in 2014 we showed it. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic showed this by carrying out difficult economic reforms, fiscal consolidation, so that we would have a surplus in the budget for four years. From that surplus, we are building and raising Serbia today. From that surplus today we can also build two new Kovid hospitals, we can raise salaries to healthcare professionals, we can invest in full health infrastructure and buy and get medicines, equipment, as we have shown in the previous period. You saw that in April of the month we helped pensioners and health workers with a 10% salary increase, but at this point, all health workers with new 10,000 dinars and all Serbian citizens, several months ago, every full-time citizen who wanted it, could get 100 euros, to fill the budget in the house, to pump up even more funds in Serbia's economy, so that in the private sector for the next five months, or earlier, we would give a minimum wage for all the employees of the million and 50,000 employees for five months, the state cash register of Serbia was financed. This is an indication that everything we did in the previous period shows that we can finance large projects from Serbia's budget, that we can also build Tirshova 2, that we have built the Clinical Centre in Nis, that we are building the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, that at this moment from real sources, we are building a health home from the budget, I am from Palilula otherwise also on the left bank of the Danube, where 150,000 people live, at this point building a health home in Borca. It will be one of the most modern, it will be the state-of-the-art healthcare unit in Belgrade, at 7,000 square meters, over 700m euros will be invested in this and the citizens of Belgrade are grateful. When you look at what we have outlined in the plan "Serbia 2025", it clearly states how much we will invest in the development of health care over the next five years and hundreds of millions of euros will be invested for this purpose. And with all this we've done, we've paved the way for it. These irresponsible people can act as they behave and write on social networks what they write, and they have the privilege of, it seems, that they can only turn there and that they can freely continue to lead. A former MP, otherwise a member of this failed alliance, says the medal, which otherwise, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic handed to health workers, those who were on the front line, the medal, said, to members of the Crisis Staff who had not spent a minute in the scuffanders. I ask him to repeat this in front of the director of the Hospital for Infectious and Tropic Diseases, to repeat it in front of Goran Stevanović, who, for 19 hours a day for the last six months, has not left the Skafander, to repeat this to Ivan Milosevic, if he can and if he can. Shame on him for that. Shame on him, because everyone in Serbia knows how much these people, members of the Crisis Staff, have been involved in the fight against this serious disease. But if their voice were to be valued and heard, they'd probably be sitting here today. But they knew that the policy they were leading, such a policy as they were leading in the previous period, those former regime members, a failed alliance, knew they had nothing to look for in the elections. They knew they were running from the same people because they couldn't look into their eyes, they couldn't tell them what they were planning and what they wanted to do. It's a devastating policy for Serbia. And thank God, I repeat once again, that they lead their policies on Twitter. As far as important things are concerned, it is important to stress that we all work together and participate in maintaining the health system in Serbia and it is important that each individual behaves responsibly and in this way. I would also like to stress that I support what President Aleksandar Vukic signed several days ago, in co-operation with Albania and Northern Macedonia, a Memorandum of Cooperation, in terms of support, in a health sense, to help people who are also health-threatening, wherever they live. It is also important for the citizens of Serbia, but this is the path we are going, a vision drawn by President Aleksandar Vukic through "mini Schengen", that the entire region develops evenly, because it is important. We're at some point and we've reached the zenith, economic indicators are talking about it, saying that we have growth in the budget, the IMF shows that. Over the next three years, we will be the first in Europe as far as economic growth is concerned, and we have been best at this since President Aleksandar Vukic led this country. When you look at everything we've done in the previous period, and especially what we're going to do in the years ahead of us, and essentially, the most important thing is to respect everything we've drawn out in the "Serbia 2025" plan, which is to ensure that the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros, that the average pension in Serbia is 440 euros and that we do everything we need to give young people a better future. For the end, let me just thank all health workers in Serbia, thank all people who have not worked in the health sector but who in the past few months have shown exceptional courage and responsibility to participate in the fight against the crown of the virus and to thank all the responsible citizens in Serbia who have understood this situation where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u651	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I think that the reaction of the Members of Parliament gave you the best possible way to assess, that is, information as you have spoken. Congratulations on that. Really embarrassing words, in that I agree, which you repeated. The words are, I suppose, Bosko Obradovica. It looks like something we've been listening to here in the previous session, but believe me or not, since I was also present in that previous session in the great hall, it's not the worst thing that this man, or the Alliance for Serbia, whose, I think, co-ordinator for the National Assembly, has shown that they are capable of thinking, saying or doing. But it's definitely things they say first of all about them. Thank you once again for remembering everyone who has made an immeasurable contribution to the great heroic struggle of our entire country and our people this year, the struggle that continues anyway. It's nice of you to remember everyone. Once again, congratulations on your presentation, it was your first address here. The word is Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u652	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases are really necessary in the situation in which our country is affected by the pandemic of the Infectious Disease Kovid 19 and these amendments and additions to the Law above all should be seen as just another measure in the fight of our country with Kovid 19. Changes and additions define many important concepts, such as personal protection against infection, home isolation, quarantine in home conditions and many other important concepts, but we have had the opportunity to hear details from my colleagues in previous exhibitions of terms. What is important and what I want to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that if from tomorrow, when this law comes into force, because the plan is to vote tonight, it will strengthen the control of compliance with the prescribed measures, given that these amendments and additions to the law are given the authority of the municipal inspectors and the municipal militia that they too, together with the sanitary inspectors, can monitor the application of the prescribed protection measures, since under the applicable law, only the sanitary inspection was possible. Also, the municipal militia gets the consent to empty the facility in which the prescribed measures are violated and that the facility even closes for a time period of no more than 72 hours. Amendments and additions are also prescribed penalties for non-compliance with the prescribed measures, both for natural persons and for legal persons and entrepreneurs. For natural persons are fines of 5,000 dinars for not wearing a mask in a closed space and disrespecting a physical distance. Also, for natural persons from 50 to 150 thousand dinars will be fines for violations unless a natural person acts on the orders of a doctor of medicine, so if he has a warrant to be in home isolation, quarantine or to respect another prescribed measure, and he does not. Legal persons, as well as entrepreneurs, as well as those responsible for them, will suffer prescribed penalties. I really must say, when it comes to fines, if the fine is one way to reduce the spread of the infection and to preserve the lives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am really in favour of it and I am in favour of these provisions, because statistics say that 95% of citizens really adhere to and respect the prescribed protection measures. These changes and additions are primarily focused on the increased responsibility of all citizens, and all of us in such a difficult situation must first of all be responsible for ourselves, our family, our loved ones, but also for the wider environment. We need to be safe, and above all, I think we need to be solid, because doctors and medical staff are exhausted, eight months of their constant battle for the lives of all Serbian citizens, working in extraordinary conditions, under full equipment, every day a growing number of reviews, an increasing number of infected and increasing capacity fill. As a result, we all have a moral obligation, or obligation to help by respecting these measures and by acting responsibly first. As for the state's responsibility in the fight with Kovid 19, I believe that the state acted extremely responsibly, that the state's response at the beginning was quick and efficient. To help the economy fight with Kovid 19, Serbia has singled out 5.8 billion euros, three plus two minimum earnings have been paid, tax and contribution payments have been delayed, loans from the Development Fund, guarantee schemes have been paid. All these measures that went to help businesses enabled the production capacity to be maintained in Serbia and the unemployment rate to be at the historic 7.3%. I really need to remind the citizens that in 2012, when the SNS took responsibility for managing the state, the unemployment rate was an incredible 25.9%. In addition to the measures to help the economy fight Kovid 19, the state of Serbia has helped each individual. Thus, pensioners were paid one-off aid of 4,000 dinars, each full-time citizen of our country who applied for the necessary assistance received 100 euros in dinar equivalent, and in April we had a 10% increase in health workers' earnings. We adopted a rebalancing today. From these funds, or from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we have decided to additionally pay 10,000 dinars of one-time assistance to our medical staff. In the morning part of the meeting, Finance Minister Sinisa Mali was in the Assembly and we had the opportunity to hear that a new increase in earnings was expected from January 1st. I am truly convinced that exactly the biggest increase will go to healthcare professionals, as was the case in previous years. Whether the earnings of Serbian health workers are high enough, whether single aid is high enough, certainly not, but what is important is that the state of Serbia has shown in this way to health workers how much it appreciates their efforts and work, how much it respects the working conditions in which they work and has singled out as much as possible at the moment, and that the national register actually remains stable. In addition to direct financial assistance to healthcare professionals, the state of Serbia has done much to improve the working conditions for all healthcare workers in Serbia, as well as the conditions for all healthcare users. With this in mind, nine billion euros has been allocated for the construction of two hoofs of the hospital, which is most important at the moment and the reconstruction and equipment of general hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia. To my great satisfaction and satisfaction, all the citizens of the Jablanic district of these funds are being reconstructed and equipped by the General Hospital in Leskovec. I just want to point out that this country's response to the situation in the battle with the crown, i.e. Kovid 19, would really not have been possible if the state of Serbia hadn't run a responsible budgetary policy since 2014, if it hadn't started fiscal consolidation, that economic reforms were not implemented and that we didn't have a surplus for four years in a row. It is thanks to that surplus that we in 2021, at a time when the whole world is facing a crisis that we will be in a position to raise our pensions by 5.9%, to increase the minimum earnings by 6.6%, to have a new salary increase in the public sector, and to continue with capital projects as if nothing were going on, as if we were simply in one normal year. So to conclude, in battle with Kovid 19, the state was truly extremely responsible. What's on all of us as individuals is that we too act responsibly, respect the prescribed measures, and thus help in the fight against the herd. In the end, I just want to say one more sentence. I believe that each of us has the right to have some belief that he or she believes or doesn't believe the consequences of life and health can have a contagion with Kovid 19, but I also feel that no one has the right no matter what kind of conviction he has to endanger the lives and health of other people. So let me once again appeal to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let us be responsible, respect the prescribed measures to get out of this situation as soon as possible and return to our normal lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u653	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Milan Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u654	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, Mr. Minister, let me say that I must say that I am sorry, I am sorry that the opponents of this law have forgotten that these things have been regulated by our Criminal Code, that our Criminal Code is far more repressive about this and that this law may be a perfect balance for the current epidemiological situation. I'm sorry everyone forgot what it looked like at first, I mean most of all the opponents of this law. At the moment when the most powerful countries in the world were economically, politically, in every way they tried to reach every available piece of medical equipment, Serbia was the one who succeeded first or among the first to come to everything we needed at that time, thanks to President Vukic, while politicians, on the other hand, stood by those who interfered with your profession as ministers, while on the other hand we had, unfortunately, dentists by education, people who had graduated from the Medical Faculty, who claimed they should not wear masks, while we had representatives of the Alliance for Serbia who on their televisions every day tried to undermine the measures of the Crisis Staff, and yet I just want to add that on the same TVs in the region were behind the crisis headquarters of the countries in the region. It hasn't been easy for you, but I have to say that I have absolute confidence in the future of the crisis staff and the measures that will take place with this law for one simple reason, it's been experiential, if that's what you want, since the start of the epidemic that Serbia hasn't taken the wrong step. It turned out that even those who advocated so-called. The Swedish script, which advocated that we don't need masks, that we don't need anything, and here today the Swedes have admitted that they may have made a mistake and I'm sorry that every mistake about this pandemic has cost people lives. We have not discussed anything else here today but about measures that directly need to affect saving people's lives. Great Britain is locked up again. We managed to avoid it thanks to the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I've had that accident, too, to be infected. It's not to play with this virus. Some will argue that it is; it is a small mortality; it is not a terrible thing. Maybe I was just lucky, and what about someone older? I'm trying to wear a mask at all times not for me. I know my freedom is limited by the freedom of others. This shouldn't be in the law at all. I know that at all times I'm able to infect someone older, someone who will have far more health problems. I'm not sure we should have gone with such a mild criminal policy. Maybe we should have gone more with education, Mr. Minister. I'd like you to take a minute, two to remind us, some have forgotten what an epidemic looks like, and unfortunately we had them in these areas, we had them 50 years ago last, didn't they? As for Mr. Minister, the prevention measure, I hope it works, at least until the vaccine arrives. I am immensely pleased today with the news again by Mr. President that we will have the first vaccine contingent, that during the first end of December, if I am not mistaken, they will arrive in Serbia. I know we're going to have to discuss this again because it's going to be on the opposition's agenda again, that it's going to be on the agenda of some politicians, how to protect people. Whatever the vaccine is, Mr. Minister, I offer myself to you, if necessary, among the first, I will receive it. I'm sure my colleague Rajic will stand next to me because for now he has shown himself in viral infections the best protection. If we can't stop this virus, I'm afraid it won't be easy for us next year. Our economy survived this year. Our economy will probably survive the next one, but we always forget that this isn't just us, that this speech, that this virus is being talked about in all parliaments, in all the world, and you always have those who don't believe, you always have those who are against and they always pay for the lives of their citizens. I support you, I will uphold this law and beg you to continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u655	Thank you. As I've been marked here, congratulations on your first performance. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u656	I thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, what we could hear all day is from fellow MPs to appeal to Serbian citizens to protect themselves and others. The amendment of the Law on the Protection of Peoples of Infectious Diseases allows, among other things, the municipal militia to punish offenders in order to combat the disease. This had to be brought not because of those responsible, but because of those irresponsible because they'd probably only know that they were following the rules when their pockets were peeled. This will allow for stricter control of the measures, and that in translation means that there will be only up to 400,500 new people in Belgrade, i.e. There will be municipal militias who will participate in control. For example, in Mladenov, where the municipal militia department is not formed, it is planned to be a municipal inspection. We can pass the best law, but we have to take care of its application and that the law applies to everything. For example, a colleague named Bačevac taxed on how many penalties were prescribed in which country, so this is no newspaper. According to current law, sanitary inspectors from the health ministry can do so and there are approximately 140 of them on Serbia's territory, which is few. But why is that significant? We have to react to the entire territory of the country, not to give the virus and to transfer the infection from one area to another. As far as punishment is concerned, there must be a general social condemnation of those who violate the necessary safeguard measures in addition to these legal ones. When we compare spring when, for example, an emergency has been introduced, I think it's less panic, but since panic is smaller, it's like a cooked frog system, i.e. We're just getting used to it, but that's why we're relaxing. That's why there's a greater inflow of patients in the hospital now. One of the hospitals in the covid system is the hospital in Mladenov for internal diseases, and if you remember the minister, when all this is over and when, hopefully, they're back to normal, that we talked about that since Mladenac doesn't have a general hospital, that he's going to go to a health center, hopefully, that's going to happen in the coming years, or that would mean a lot. Individuals who strongly criticise the electoral headquarters, then the Serbian government, the health ministry, and particularly President Aleksandr Vukic, appear in the media. Everything that's good, everything that's logical, it's normal, and what's bad, they're guilty. I urge us to stop accusing and give a minimum of security and responsibility. If someone feels strong and healthy, it doesn't mean they're not a virus transporter, it's very selfish of them, so for some speakers who didn't wear masks, I know personally that they're in the hospital right now. We've seen that the disease doesn't just attack the old ones, and now there's more and more young people who don't have any systemic diseases. There are many countries in the world that have not immediately taken the gravity of the situation and could be resented for what their governments have done, I think that this government, which has led the process since the beginning, has really had nothing to object to. Since the beginning, there have been those who are smart only for personal promotions when the measures are milder, why are they not sharper, when the measures are sharper, why are they not lighter, and we deliberately do not tell the opposition, because it involves an idea, a plan, a programme, and there is no, but only obstruction. Extremely strong people and in such a difficult situation continue without saving themselves. That's the case with our president, so his son's disease was also the target of ridicule, but thank God, he's young and strong and he's over the virus. So let's ask ourselves, Serbian citizens, who are the people who have given themselves the right to know better than doctors than experts, when it is known that doctors and college specialists have been schooling for 10 years and more to be expert in an area. That dose of insolence and conceit, it's really amazing. I have a lot of confidence in this government that they never make hasty moves, but they always make decisions in the best interests of their citizens, thinking primarily of their health, but also of existence, as counterpart George Komlenski said - to preserve both the head and the house and find the right measure. If they think it's necessary to shorten the time of the cafe, then it has to. A great burden has been borne, indeed by tourist agencies, but I am personally against the work of nightclubs. Would someone just like that, if this wasn't a dangerous time for humanity, risk the progress of their economy, certainly not. Of course, we all want to go back to normal, not just us, but the whole world. I watched with admiration in Wuhan that it all started the other day, a concert was held, where they were without masks, dancing, singing, but let's not forget that all this was preceded by great discipline and great responsibility. I also join my colleague, George, who thanked not only the medical workers, but all others who have contributed to Serbia being normal, that we are not destitute of anything, and that everything works normally. So, all those people we could rely on, now we only need unity because of our future and because of the future of our children, because united we can do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u657	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u658	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all, I want in my first address to the National Assembly to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for coming to a large number of elections held on 21 June 2020, because they defended democracy in Serbia on that day, and because they voted in favour of politics in the continuity of the SNS and because they made it clear to everyone what kind of future they wanted for Serbia. Personally, I believe that two things are important in politics, which are, above all, responsibility and results and as far as the results are concerned, the matter is clear, the results either you have or you do not have, and on this basis you get citizens' trust in the elections. We from the SNS can be proud of the results we have achieved not only in the previous four years, that is, during the term of office of the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, but since 2012, when, under the leadership and leadership of President Aleksandar Vukic SNS, the country. Six state policy priorities defined by President Aleksandar Vukic will have clear support for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and there is a broad consensus for this. Of course, at these moments, the biggest challenge ahead of us is the fight for the public health of our citizens and the fight against the Crown of Virs. It is through the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases that we are fighting for the protection of public health and for the protection of better quality health care for all of our citizens. In this battle against the crown virus that has lasted since March of the month, we have provided higher salaries for our healthcare workers. Through the 2020 budget rebalancing, we provided one-time financial assistance to our medical workers because they were precisely on the greatest blow to the crown of the virus. Not only that, we managed to secure over the previous five billion euros for our economic system and for our health system so that no one in Serbia would be in a position to lose their jobs during the crisis. Thanks to the economic reforms we implemented in 2014, we can also talk today in the National Assembly about the results in the health system that we achieved in the previous period. In the previous period we built a new Clinical Center in Nis, we complete construction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, we complete the construction of the Vojvodina Clinical Centre and continue the project of the construction of the University Children's Clinic "Tirshova 2". We have joined the reconstruction of almost all hospitals, clinical centres and health homes in Serbia, and I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that no one has done this in the past 50 years, until SNS and Aleksandar Vukic came to power. We want to provide the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with what we have foreseen for them through the investment plan "Serbia 2020-2025", which is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve. We envisioned more than 600m euros in investment in our health system to get citizens of the Republic of Serbia's state-of-the-art health system in Europe. Because we have economically strengthened Serbia enough, we can talk today about the construction of two new Kovid hospitals in only three months in Batajnica and Kruševec, we can talk about the equipment of a PSR laboratory in Kosovo Mitrovica. We can talk about expanding our health capacities in Gracanica, we can talk about building additional facilities for a clinical centre in Kosovo Mitrovica, for health systems in the Kosovo Sea, Metohija, because only economically strong Serbia can fight for the protection of vital national and national interests in KIM and fight to protect the public health of our countrymen at KIM. At this point, strengthening our health capacity overall strengthens the power of the Republic of Serbia. Our task as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be to form such a legal framework that Serbia can continue through economic and political reforms, to achieve even better results in all areas of social life in order to preserve our national interests, to preserve public health and the lives of citizens and to further strengthen our economy. For this reason, we have prepared a legal framework that will allow sanctioning any non-compliance with epidemiological measures. Through a legal framework like this, we open up an opportunity to implement the crisis headquarters measures. We don't have another choice, because we can't shut down our economy. The current law could not predict what is happening with the pandemic both in Serbia and in the world, and therefore our task is to face new circumstances and to fight for our economy and for the lives of citizens of Essentially, and I want to point out that it is important for the citizens of Serbia, the point and purpose of this law is not the monetary penalty of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but the point of this law is to protect themselves, to listen to the advice of doctors and to adhere to epidemiological measures precisely for reasons to protect our health capacities, to protect our economy and to protect our interests. So it is clear that when we talk about protecting public health, we are talking about one of the key issues for the future of this country. Once again, I thank our doctors who fight daily for the protection of the lives of citizens and thank the people who are headed by President Aleksandar Vukic for the country's economy, because despite the problems brought to us by Corona, we have managed to preserve jobs and not endanger Serbia's public debt rate, to be the best economy in Europe in 2020, and to have good news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is to be expected since 1 January 2021 and higher salaries and higher pensions. What I finally want to say is that I will vote in favour of a proposed law that represents one of the first steps in achieving these six priorities of state policy defined by President Aleksandar Vucic, because that policy has received unhindered support in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u659	I thank and congratulate you again on your first presentation. Since the parliamentary lists no more registered speakers, and I also don't see anyone appearing on behalf of the parliamentary groups, the heads of the parliamentary groups, or the authorised representatives, I would just like to ask at the end if they would like to speak to you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u660	President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, I just want to thank you for today's presentations, for the debate we have had, and I hope that what we are doing will result in stopping the spread of the virus and preserving our health and health and the lives of our citizens. Once again, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-12-1.u661	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. I would just like to point out that an amendment has arrived on behalf of the Authorised Proposer of the Citizens' Protector, but untimely, after 14.00 hours, and as you know by the Rules of Procedure, the amendment is submitted until the beginning, to the opening of the debate in principle, so that the amendment is untimely. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, November 12th, 2020, starting at 19.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the item of the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. [[after breaks]] According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 189 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 for – 189, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you he's a member of 22. The bill provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 for – 189, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total: 192, for – 189, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the agenda point of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I thank you all, and I just want to let you know that unless there are some points in the emergency procedure, that the next session of the National Assembly, which would consider the agenda points of the regular procedure, would most likely be scheduled for November 24th. Thank you.
