ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70456	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 73 MPs. I would be happy to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall. I'd like to inform you that the prevention of a session has not been reported by anyone. We continue the search in detail on the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in 2021. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been invited, and Minister Nedimovic is present at this part of the session. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70457	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one happy news about how radical Johnson pulled England out of the EU. That's one good and real news for Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the bill's proposal, in any case, some of the provisions of this law rely on previous lists, and the first lists in Serbia were carried out in 1834, which were carried out by 1931, as stated in this bill and in an explanation, during Milos Obrenovic every five years, and then on 10 years. What I'd like to say is, it's a shame that this law could not cover crime, and above all, certain areas of crime, above all, economic crime. I'd like to draw attention to the facts, is there any crime in the area of health or not? How is it possible that a factory that goes bankrupt, organises in a private company an extraordinary examination of workers and for that review, a factory already under bankruptcy, pays 12 million dinars to a private company, although this factory, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, has its own health station? For 30 years, however, workers have been reviewed in an extraordinary and regular manner, but from the public sector, Mr. Minister, you transfer to your colleagues, in health care huge funds from the public sector in the private sector to hospitals that some mobsters and criminals have opened. This is a very important question. Please imagine that in one factory, damage is done to the state's budget and that the Institute of Public Health, which has the right to examine workers, falls under its jurisdiction, to transfer workers to go to a private company and to take from only one company 12 million. Then the question arises why are the small salaries to health workers? The public sector must no longer allow health care workers to cross, work in the public sector in the morning, i.e. In state institutions, and in the afternoon they work and they send clients, they send patients to privates. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of crime and the government must deal with crime in Serbia in order to improve the lives of workers and prevent injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70458	I thank my colleague Jojic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70459	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, I want to talk about one news we heard yesterday, which encourages and confirms the Serbian Government's intention to continue with the trend of reducing the unemployment rate. More than 122,000 unemployed people this year will get a chance to work through the National Employment Service programme, and the emphasis is on supporting more employable persons. In this respect, the 2020 Impact Agreement between the National Employment Service and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Boring and Social Affairs has also been signed. For these purposes, through the National Employment Service, an allocation of 3.7 billion dinars was planned, 550 million dinars were provided for the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and 24 million dinars were provided from the IPA programme. What's a newspaper is also requalification in an IT area that separates 150 million dinars. In 2020, it should be noted that more than 7,000 people with disabilities will get a chance to work. So we are talking about measures that will result in a reduction in the unemployment rate and that will primarily increase the efficiency of employment. It is one of the priorities the Serbian government has been working on during previous years. The fact is that in 2012, unemployment was 26%, and now below 10%. It takes time, but it also takes well - thought - out measures to deliver results. We still have the consequences that occurred at the time of the Dossow government, when factories were sold into decommissioning and closed, when jobs were closed. In Nis, too, many people lost their jobs in factories that were once giants, and many of these people still make it difficult to employ. That's the problem we have to solve. So, in addition to the unemployed who are over 50 years old, we have persons who are unskilled, we have those who wait for a job for more than a year, and special attention will be directed to the employment of women. On the other hand, we have young people who deserve a chance, who deserve to get their first job experience and who also deserve to be employed. There is one newspaper that will contribute greatly to the implementation of these measures, which is that employees of the National Employment Service will work in the field and through direct communication with employers, see the needs of the labour market, in order to provide labour force accordingly, and the unemployed on the other hand will be afforded requalification or requalification. For all I have stated, I believe it is necessary to support these measures by the government, in order to continue reforms and address problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70460	Thank you. According to the amendment, there are several reported, so we'll just honor the order. Alexander Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70461	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward because we were all seduced by the news from the early morning, and this morning, in the early morning hours, she was arrested in Podgorica, Zeta, the mother of the MP of the Democratic Front, Milan Knezevic. The brutal police action in the early morning seemed like this, if this camera could zoom, here's what's left after the family home of Milan Knezevic. His mother, an over 70-year-old woman, was arrested on that occasion without any statement from the Montenegrin police why they arrested her, handcuffed her as the last criminal. On that occasion, an uncle's brother, Democratic Front MP Milan Knezevic, was arrested at the time Milan Knezevic was in Belgrade. So, the old lady was alone in the house, but for Mil's police, it's obviously nothing, but as the last criminal, they put handcuffs on her hand and put her in a police car, and on that occasion, as people on the ground report, she was arrested by dozens of Zeta citizens. It is obvious that the regime of Milo Djukanovic, the anti-Serbian regime of Milo Djukanovic, has shown enormous anxiety, it is obvious that the Mil Djukanovic regime has been particularly shaken by protests happening in Montenegro in recent weeks, where Serbs have shown a significant step towards showing style, towards showing unity, towards showing resistance to the adoption of a controversial law on freedom of religion. I would also like to tell you that Serbia must continue with good results and when it comes to the economy and when it comes to the healing of our economy and economy, and why? Because only strong and strong Serbia, both economically strong and strong Serbia can protect the Serbian people wherever they live, whether it is some of the countries of the environment, whether it is the AP Kosovo and Metohija, whether it is the Serbs in Montenegro who, as we see, are particularly threatened these days by the anti-Serbian regime of Milo Djukanovic. I would like to tell you that we must continue at this rate, this way, to develop Serbia, to make Serbia a strong country in order to protect the Serbian people wherever they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70462	Thank you, colleague Markovic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70463	Petar Jojic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70464	You asked for a replica, based on what?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70465	It's a light bulb. (National MP Petar Jojic speaks without a microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70466	You think she challenged what you said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in any case, the atmosphere in our parliament today is where better than when we have a minister from G17 or from another flying party. There is today Mr Nedimovic, who indeed communicates with the MPs and thus enables them to give notice to the MPs. Since it is Mr. Nedimovic's minister in this government, I have no objections to his work, but would ask him to carry out a check, whether there is crime in the administration of state agricultural land, and above all the crime that occurred during the yellow government. The administration still has people working in the former regime, and crime in the area of state agricultural land is very serious and should not go beyond that especially when it comes to state agricultural land being issued in municipalities and cities. Afterwards, subsidies granted to individual households. You have a case like this, subsidies are given or given free of charge for the use of those who want to deal with agriculture, and in one household you have them who, by five members of the family, report that they will be engaged in agriculture. All five get land for use without paying, or if they pay, they pay it where less than they should. So, the agricultural land administration is supposed to be checked from 2005 to today, and I'm saying that right now there are DS and G17 personnel, who really have been encumbered in injustice and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70468	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70469	The esteemed chairman, honourable fellow MPs, only a few remarks regarding Mr Jojic's exposure. My question was supposed to be, which you finally said, for which time period do you think we should carry out surveillance? I'm telling you that we're going to carry out administrative oversight in the area of availability to state agricultural land for the 2005 period and beyond. As far as other things are concerned, I want only for the public's sake, so that you don't get the impression that there's a problem now or that there's some unwanted situation going on. In the last two years, we've completely listed state agricultural land, determined exactly how many there are, determined what parcels they are. In a completely transparent way, on the site of the Department of Agricultural Land put up a number of plots, which catastrian municipality, who is the tenant, on what basis. I think it's very important, we've overlapped it with satellite footage, for one simple reason, because it's very important for us to be completely transparent. I think this is also very important in terms of other state-owned assets, to be processed in this way. As far as the lease is concerned, there's only one thing I need to mention to you, there's no lease for zero. There's no free giving of state agricultural land. There is only the right to subscribe to cattle farmers and other agricultural holdings which, on other grounds, are under the right of investment, multi-annual plantings or some other basics, or the construction of irigation systems receive the right to cross-referencing. In order for viewers watching this session to bring it closer, for example, in some catastrian municipalities of South Banat, since I know that this matter is close to you, the cost of renting agricultural land at auction is 250 to 300 euros per hectare. It could be more, depending on how much it's exemplified. Under the law of the 165-euro lease, the cost of renting annual agricultural land was 165 euros. So, some cattleman or one who built an irigation system gets land at 100 euros a year, for the simple reason we consider it, and by law, so those persons have to have some priority because of the importance of irrigation systems and the importance of livestock farming has for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70470	I thank you, Mr. Minister, since you have two minutes, as well as MPs, by amendment. (Branislav Nedimovic: Sorry. I apologize to you, but I must warn you. Comrade Jojic, would you like a replica of the minister's presentation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, I trust you that after my parliamentary question in May, when I asked him, you took appropriate steps to determine the total amount of state agricultural land. I have to ask you to tell me, the Department of Agricultural Land has answered me, I've asked 31 questions, in detail, in terms of cities and municipalities. But, Mr. Minister, I've received a general response from your portfolio that doesn't speak of what you're talking about. You've said well that a catastrian processing of all parcels of state agricultural land has been carried out. Where are the problems? In the lease of state agricultural land. They report that tycoons who use thousands of hectares lead after them five-six batins and tens of those who will physically participate in a competition to rent state agricultural land, then give up, and that the tycoon will take a thousand, two or three thousand hectares of land to rent. I have asked questions that apply in detail to cities and municipalities, and it has been announced that only four municipalities of your ministry have found irregularity and that two or three thousand hectares of agricultural land have not been listed. Therefore, I believe that you stand in that direction, that state land must be controlled and leased, but must be charged, and tycoon abuses should be prevented.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70472	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70473	Dear Chairman, I'll just take a moment. We keep surveillance, every parcel on the Agency's farm land site is available, you can enter, enter the number of plots, catastrian municipality, local self-government, to see literally everything about everything. What is very important, this is this problem that you stressed, it is that often on auctions there are registered agricultural holdings that do not have the capacity to process this agricultural land. What did you call them? Some who set themselves up for others. By amending the Agricultural Land Act, which we have prepared, we will make it impossible for those persons to participate in such auctions, to be a front for something else. I'll just remind, it's very well known farmers, mostly the people of their neighbours who have registered agricultural holdings that apply for bids and for which it's very difficult to determine whether they work in a sublet, first of all because you can never determine whether they have enough machinery and capacity to process that country. Now, that's a new law that we're going to establish, introduce, and I think we're going to stop it. To know one more thing, literally what you said about these four local self-governments, it was abandoned agricultural land and we put that land in the whole system. It's those old orchards, the old vineyards mostly, which no one used, they're state-owned, but they weren't the subject of renting. Now we've got them in, too. There's one more thing that's more important to me. They tried many companies, agricultural combinations that were privatized to register state land as social and thus turn it into private property. We found 12,000 acres of land and challenged and entered the state property vomit procedure. I think it's our most important job, to try to take this country and return to where it belongs, and because of the various abuses that existed in the past 20 years, they've been tried to register as private property or social property.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70474	Thank you. Comrade Jojic, do you want a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70475	Mr. Minister, it's obvious you've taken certain steps, but your predecessors haven't done so since the adoption of the State Agricultural Land Act. However, I will ask you, since I have asked 30 questions within the agricultural state land, how many state-owned agricultural land are there in the municipalities? I didn't get that information. How much of the state agricultural land on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is there? Secondly, Mr. Minister, I see you've taken appropriate measures regarding unwritten state land. There have been great abuses, Mr. Minister, when it comes to pastures. More than 12,000 hectares were, according to my knowledge, state land, i.e. pastures that have been used since Maria Teresa in Vojvodina as pastures for the village so that they can feed the cattle. However, some criminals, when privatized combined agricultural ones, went into possessions and overturned large areas, and thus, what you said, turned the land into a country land so that they could buy it later. Therefore, I would only beg you, support your energy and what you are really doing in that area, you cannot do it alone, but search your portfolio, comb it. That yellow mob and those yellow ants that are in the vaults need to be removed or controlled. I'm going to ask you to answer these questions I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70476	Thank you, colleague Jojic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70477	Mr. Chairman, I will use the time of the authorised representative that remains. Ladies and gentlemen, why does the SRS insist on amendments that this law relating to the census be as precise as possible? We may be somewhere even more rigorous than the proposer himself predicts, but that's only for one reason, which is well known to all of you, that this job that refers to statistics, such as the census, can also serve different manipulations. Of course, the basic intention of this list is that we have the right picture, that we have statistical data that is completely accurate, that corresponds to reality. I just want to remind you that in 2001, a census was to be made in the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. At the insistence of the then federal unit of Montenegro, a census in the SRJ was postponed, it was postponed for 2003, because then Montenegro's leadership was thinking that the census would support its separatist policy, which was later realized. We all know well that, not counting that list that the communists made after the Second World War in Montenegro, the majority population is a Serb population, but over time, by pressures and such forgeries, we have come to the situation that we are now listening to, not only the reasoning of counterfeits when it comes to statistics, but also historical counterfeits, where the fact is that whoever was a Serb is no longer a Serb, he is now someone who is new national as opposed to his father who was a Serb. And no matter how illogical it sounds to us, we have to face the situation that in about 50 or 100 years, if not more, it will simply become the only argument for different reasons. Statistics remain, we are all, which would say mortal, so that we do not go into labor when it comes to the situation only in Montenegro. Here, I'll remind you of something about Serbia. In 2001, when the census was to be held, it was then thought that in one part of Serbia, primarily in the AP Vojvodina, it began with the affirmation of a new nationality, or national commitment, that is, so-called. The dukes, and you have data on the census, for the first time appears in the statistics that someone, but for the beginning of one percent almost pleaded as the Dukes, maybe someone says, it's so minor that it doesn't take time, it's warning. There was a 99% Serb animal in Montenegro during King Nikola. Montenegro was a Serbian state. The period until 1945 is historically considered, conditionally, negligible. Did you see what the communists did? From a pure Serb living, during King Nikola, they turned it into Montenegro. Earlier, when it is said that someone belongs, it is declared, declared as a Montenegrin, it was a synonym for the Serbs of Montenegro. Inside Montenegro, when someone said he was a Montenegrin, it was understood that it was not Serbian nationality, that it was either Muslim or Malisor or Croat, but it was quite clear. Statistics are very important. Serbia belonged to countries, which would say, the developed world, when it comes to the census. So in 1890, Serbia had a Law on the census and domestic livestock, as it was said. Only military bonds and taxpayers were listed before, so women were not listed, but the census was conducted every five years. Serbia has entered the family of countries, where it is done every 10 years, and now we have to respect the centralised list at European level. We want our amendments to be precise, to be clear, so there is no manipulation. Thank you, Chairman, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70478	According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70479	Dear colleagues and colleagues, these two discussions of colleagues Mircic and colleagues of Markovic, encouraged me to report. The situation is very serious, and we must not approach this moment unseriously. We need to be very wise, smart, and we need to do everything we can not let another accident happen to us, another evil that in the past and in this century came upon by the Serbian people. We need to be smart about the events in Montenegro and the upcoming census. So, smart in the head, let's avoid arguing and fighting. For the sake of petty party interests, do not cause great damage to both Serbia and all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70480	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70481	The Household and Apartment List Act is one procedural law, and it needs to be determined, that is, here to say how and how to make the preparations and the list itself. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 1, it is mainly aimed at improving the text, but from the presentation of counterpart Petar Jojic, you have heard that Serbia has been long for many years, I would say, for centuries, to the heritage of a single discipline called the census, and it has its enormous importance. It is not our goal in 2021 to list the population, dwellings and households and to keep it that way. Our goal is to see what we can do next. The state of Serbia, the Serbian government is devoting some means at the moment to improve the image of the population structure in Serbia, and above all I mean the age, but the effects are small. For example, the environment from which I come, Ljubovija, is there from one day to 18 years compared to the total population of 8.7% and this is the 2011 census. If the Bureau of Statistics, Mr. Jancic, you've been there for many years, the directors are changing, you're staying, and if the Statistics Office can only give us that information that's the case, we won't have much use for it. If the Bureau of Statistics alarms all those who need to get involved, and now at the 2021 census to make a certain contribution and to alarm what the situation is, then all that makes sense. What's the most important thing today? The country, of course, and nobody slows it down, it's perfectly normal, but after that, it's human. This should be done, first of all, because of the people of Serbia, because of the people, and then later we will have those data that we can change, direct and benefit from. Further, it is necessary and everything can be analysed, if the list is well implemented, to analyse both the personnel structure and everything else we need. So, one projection, what do we want, where we see the state of Serbia in another period. That's what these data we're going to get on this list should give an answer, that is, to improve the quality of life. If we don't, the census alone won't make much sense, but the fact is that we started with the census, we Serbia, before the Sretenjski Constitution was adopted, indicates that the Serbian people, a very cultural and advanced one, but we are looking for some radical moves to make this even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70482	I thank my colleague. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70483	At the end of your term in office in the government, soon the parliamentary elections, before that, have been in power since 2012, and the last census was conducted in 2011 and you from the SNS, are not from the statistical atlas, since there is a gentleman from the Republic Bureau of Statistics who learns certain lessons to make Serbian citizens better. If you had looked at him a little, if the MPs who took part in the debate had looked at him, they were from your parties, you would have seen that the situation is, and will find us unfortunately in 2021, only worse than in 2011. What should the citizens of Serbia know now? Certainly not what you're promoting, that that censusor will come, so now on laptops, laptops will be interviewed with citizens instead of those lists. First of all, we think it is better, and if it is a longer period of processing and entry, that it is on paper, and on the other hand, we will show during the debates of the amendments, that it is amazing, against constitutional and against all the standards that protect human rights, national minorities and all others that will be covered by the list, that you are asking Serbia's citizens for certain data. After all, we wanted, since there's a gentleman from the Bureau, to tell you that these patterns should be far more precise than these are prescribed here by these laws. It would be good for you to accept these amendments in the voting day so that later on because of complaints, citizens don't have a headache. What does the 2011 statistical atlas indicate? That in rural areas, in villages, the average age of the population ranged from 50 to 75 years, that those over 60 were prevailing. Look, that was before 2011. What did you do to help people there have better living conditions and young people come back and live and work in the country, if you look at all those parameters, which they really did well from the Republic Institute in that segment? I've been looking at absolutely the entire statistical atlas in segments, and you can see from that you can see that it's very necessary not to move those young people away and that you have an even worse situation today. Out of four thousand 900 and some inhabited towns in Serbia today you have a huge number of those where five or ten people live. The schools have been shut down. You didn't make access roads. Let it go, you build highways, no one has anything against it, but imagine that in all of southern Serbia in the eastern part of Serbia, in the western part of Serbia, you have done absolutely nothing in infrastructure and to help these people. It is important for you that these multinational corporations come, that you give them 10,000 - 11,000 euros per job, to make a new industrialization of Serbia, so that's what Joseph Broz did after World War II. We were a predominantly agrarian country and Serbia and how well it could live off a part of the economy. Of course, industry needs to be developed, but you are now further promoting these people, and those who do not get a job, because they are not members of the Serbian Progressive Party, in these newly opened factories what, a young man sees has no perspective, can't live, picks up and goes abroad. It's very easy to do the math, you know it well, Mr. Nedimovic. Since I have a family in the village that deals with livestock, in the conditions that can, even one of my daughters-in-law has more cattle, I think fruit right now, that doesn't get mad at me, 12 cows, and those people who have such a decent cattle fund, they're a valuable family, they can hope for something, because by growing a cow, an annual household can stay about 1,000 euros if they buy all the food, if they don't produce food and one calf. But how do we get to that? So this part is very clear and that part of my family that deals with it can live solidly. What about the one who doesn't have any cows and lives in the country? Do you know how many people like that are there? They don't have anything, or if there's one... Here, Mr. Despotovic tells me, since his parents live in the village of Apple, where is he and he deals with livestock and he helps them both wife and children, because they are older people, and they have no number of such examples, how does he survive, especially in such an area, at such an altitude? I was last year, I went around, I mean all of Western Serbia and New Varosh and Priboj and all those golden-bore villages, so believe me, Mr. Nedimovic, that I couldn't see a flock of sheep, to see cows, and even a caver, which is God's day for producing such food. It's just that our goal should be to get people back there, let them live. Here, I'll tell you what, you know it well, but he's got to have an impulse and an incentive from the state, not to be offered -- let's go to the welders, let's go over there to the precise mechanics, go work in somebody there, now I'm not going to list the names of those companies. Well, what are we going to do tomorrow if all these young people rush to work for that minimumer or something if they give them a little more, but rarely in these companies, and the Serbian village dies? What we can do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to raise the price of the country, now imagine how many hectares Serbia has. This Al Dahra took these, how many Verice 17,000, 18,000 acres, so we don't count on it? But where the country's remaining fund is, and even with these small holdings, if the money were to be invested and the actual value of the country's processing, through livestock, vegetables, fruit growing, then we would have a much higher GDP and we would know that it was a lasting value. The country and what is produced and invested is a lasting value, and some of your combinations with the factories that they are today are not, tomorrow, and they are given that kind of money from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70484	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70485	Minister Nedimovic, it may be a good thing that you are the government's representative when we talk about this law, there is also a colleague from the Statistics Office. The promotion of the technique during the census, it has its advantages more efficiently and perhaps cheaper, but what Natasa Jovanovic was talking about means that the classical way of listing might be better, but when Mr Nedimovic here, which is why I said it, so you see, what the government is now giving certain money to encourage and help families with children, that is good and when I said that there is a single 8.20% of the population in the municipality that I come from, and if the average age of the population in Serbia is 74 years, that is, when we share, you see that this is a scary picture. And now there may be an increase in birth, but what's it worth to us, Mr. Minister, if those kids, when they finish high school in a place where they were born, go to major cities and don't go back to where they came from? So it would be good if you, within the policy of your Ministry, try to make one difference, differentiation between, let's not be angry with my friends and godmothers from Sremska Mitrovica, between Sremska Mitrovica and Krupnje, Ljubovije, Mali Zvornik, Koceljeva, Bajne Gardens, where mountainous areas are, where one owner has very small parcels, in Vojvodina, in Srem, in other plain places, and even in Mačva, and if it comes to a certain area of land not being processed for a certain time, there are large complexes for the state and for the owner, because it is much cheaper to return that land to his purposes, than it would be where the parcels are very, very saturated. That's why you should, you can't punish someone and say you can't live in Sremska Mitrovica, but you have to live in Little Zvornik. But by the measures that the Government can determine you can interest people to make it a better place for them, that they also try their creativity, their readiness, their ability and everything they have learned to apply, but there is the help of the state, that is, your ministry is very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70486	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70487	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I will take the opportunity to look back at the previous presentations of the MPs. You're absolutely right that you can't observe the same area that has developed agricultural production from the rest of the space, and that's why it serves us, among other things, and statistics, a trial list in agriculture and this list that will go on and without quality data, what little we can do about it. Let me give you an example. When two years ago, the Russian Federation asked for an exact list of apples for now, we didn't have relevant data, except for the 2011 list, everything else was voluntary information provided by apple growers. That's why it's very important for us to have different models of gathering information that allow us to operate more easily on this data. Because today the time we live in is completely different than the time of the 1990s, the 1980s, the '70s, so we don't keep talking. We're all talking about data, and without these official models, these new electronic census models, we're hardly going to be able to respond to the challenges that are ahead of us, and we want you all to agree that we have as much exports as possible, as much goods as possible. The Ministry of Agriculture is working on a regionalisation project and it will actually go in the direction of what you said that we try where few people live to keep them there to live or bring new people, new people who will deal with agricultural production, as one of the points of binding the population to a certain space. On the other hand, you have an agreement on the agenda between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank on credit for increasing the competitiveness of Serbian agriculture. It hides solutions and measures that will be directed towards eastern, southern Serbia and parts of western Serbia in sectors Mrs Jovanovic spoke about in fruit and vegetables, where much higher income is generated per unit of surface than it is when you work on these areas of wheat, corn or something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70488	I thank the ministers. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. It's not your amendment. A colleague of Peric's called. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I am mentioned. ) Everything is fine, but only fellow Peric as the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70489	Mr. Minister, in one piece, it's as if we didn't understand each other. So, the list is a total necessity. We've even told Mrs. Radete's interventions that we're opposed to what will later be these lists as a sample, but we want to make from this data that we get a useful base. If what you were planning to do at the Ministry is quick to do, it will be good and there is no other relevant data since the 2011 census, everything else is partial, not completely. I can't remember in 2011 when there was a list of little Remeta and that environment where there's a lot of apple so far, it wasn't there. Now that's it, you've seen what the surfaces are and I'd say it's a very intense and very serious production. We in the middle, or the state of Serbia in the middle, where the mountain-mounted area is, we can never bring it to that level even if we're South Tyrol, but we can adapt to that population, those habits, that culture of production that the state itself would do. I'm not as optimistic as you are, although one day I want it to be so, in the first stage of serious rule, we should keep what we can keep in places where people are born. Somehow, if we do a good job in the world, if we don't see where we came from, it's like we didn't do it, but if we're not doing our best, if we're somewhere in the world, we're gonna retire, and yet, it's no big deal. But in the place where we are, where people recognize us, we want to fight. When I say "we" I mean every resident. That's why the state of Serbia has to intervene and I ask you that as soon as possible, those measures that the ministry plans to do to make them do that, people living in these areas feel that the state is taking care of them. Some industrial plants in some areas do not make much sense, there is no labour force, because the population, or cities and villages, remain empty. If we had to bring them in from other backgrounds, that would be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70490	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, you are mentioned during the minister's presentation, you want a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70491	Thank you. Mr. Minister, as far as this part of Serbia is concerned, I absolutely agree with you for fruit growing and vegetables and all these cultures, and above all, you said there would be a law on organic production soon, that through these incentives this product will also be paid to anyone who works. Indeed, there are many examples in Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia where young people who have studied for something else have defined themselves to go to the country and deal with it, to live well from it. There was one contribution to one of the TVs for a Belgrade family that went to the slopes of Kosmay, and everyone is in the family of architects. They started producing healthy food, eventually turned it into a restaurant service, etc. What is the hope of people in Serbia's cities where your thieves are in power? Why should a peasant hope in villages around Kragujevac? So Kragujevac and the whole surrounding area, especially all the villages towards Gornji Milanovac, this mine area, according to Topoli, is God's day for fruit growing. My mother was born in the village of Cumić and you were probably there, a large village, there is also the oldest school she went to and today is this school is really like an example of how people in the village were educated, which is almost 300 years old, and there people do not have money, products and flowers and organic production. There are no incentives enough for agriculture, and you today can see where I was right when I claimed all these years that the son of Tomislav Nikolic, Radomir Nikolic, was stealing money from the city register. He received huge budget money from Aleksandar Vukic, of you, firstly when Vukic was prime minister, now Mrs Brnabic. The town of Kragujevac, to know the Kragujevci is not a city that did not win. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70492	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70493	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70494	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70495	Here, I'll finish. So it's also in your interest to know that because part of the coalition government in Kragujevac...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70496	Yeah, but my interest is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70497	They got over 40m euros. Where's that money? It is not in agriculture, but in the pockets of members of the Nikolic family.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70498	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the census is one serious thing and I don't think it's necessary to stress it out in particular because if all research, all studies, and all that matters to one country, for a society mainly based on the results of the census, then that's enough to be a fact. It is quite enough to look at the results of three consecutive censuses and a layman who is not referred to that matter will be able to immediately understand in which direction and direction some movements are made. If you look at it for a little while for a long time, then you can also perform the exact mathematical legality of how and how both the number and population increase or some other parameters will occur. Namely, the census isn't just sent censuses to the field, you give them databases for a particular area from the Ministry of the Interior and says go there and there and write down what's in those forms. Writers have to be extremely educated people so they can get some things ahead of time, not just take things from the scene, but, let's just say, to conclude on the basis of insight into some household and other things. So the census isn't just a census, it's a list of objects, a list of livestock funds, land funds and everything else. We have now seen in this situation when about a month ago in the case of Monica Karimanovic, when police, Gandarmeria, searched one part, a large part of Serbia, three municipalities of Nis, Svrljig and Književec, saw what situation? It's the best place to see what kind of situation we've got on the ground, and there's a lot of abandoned objects that no one's been coming to for years, and there's even objects where maybe people don't know, or any heirs don't know it's theirs, so they have to take care of it too. Special care must also be taken of the census, of the stock fund, because some other countries take care of it. For example, the former Soviet Republic of Turhvenistan, it has a special ministry for horses. It's the only country in the world that has that. I mean, it's interesting information, but well, the horses are a national animal, what is a sacred cow in India. Therefore, none of the parameters in the list, the general list, should be neglected because all of this affects research and, based on all of these parameters, a more precise diagnosis can be made, or a forecast of how things will move in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70500	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word of MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70501	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, the fact is that the list of 2021 will be the most modern list of European lists. I would not talk about the technical details of the list, the laptops and the rest, but I would just say that the list represents the most important statistical source of individual data on the population of a country. The Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs shall also take part in the conduct of certain affairs relating to the census, as shown in Article 12. In this regard, key issues for the analysis of the impact of the census on society, that there is no adverse impact on specific population groups. Which social groups is the question? In particular, sensitive social groups would be affected by the measures chosen and to see that impact, above all, on the poor and socially exclusive individuals and groups, such as persons with disabilities, children, young women, over 65 years of age, members of the Roma national minority, uneducated, unemployed, etc. Some research has been done earlier by the type of new economic political thought of Djorđa Vukadinovic and, of course, such data is not valid. But a survey entitled "The Analysis of Implementation of Recommendations by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Serbia", which I own, this brochure and this analysis, was carried out within the framework of the project from global recommendations to the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities in the environments in which they live, financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Office for Human and Minority Rights and as part of the programme of implementation of anti-discrimination policies in the Republic of Serbia in 2018. The research project was implemented by the National Organization of Persons with Disabilities, in partnership with the Union of Distrophysicians of Serbia. The main objective of the project is to improve the mechanism for monitoring UN human rights recommendations, in order to improve the situation of particularly sensitive social groups, especially persons with disabilities. The main focus of the project is on establishing the level of implementation of the UN Committee's recommendations for the rights of persons with disabilities, which is exactly what we are doing here. This study has made a recommendation for statistics and data collection, which will include this list, which is to update data on persons with disabilities classified by gender, age, type of disability, national and geographical membership, as well as housing in institutions. That way we'll have a good base for a further strategy in this area. In the end, I'm saying I still think the prosecution should deal with 620 million tycoons of Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70502	Thank you. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70503	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and associates, of course, is the draft law on the census and how significant, but I will speak from the aspect of analysis and planning. Why? Therefore, the proposal for a census law is not only relevant in terms of collecting statistics, but also important in terms of defining adequate support measures and adopting adequate strategic plans at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but also in terms of the adoption of adequate laws where the focus is on the quality of life of each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I would talk about this law from the aspect of improving the position of particularly sensitive social groups, because the bill provides that the list will also work in social protection institutions, meaning, in those institutions that provide children, adults and old persons. Also, I must stress that the yellow tycoons, or the yellow tycoon company, left 30,000 legally invisible persons during the exercise of its power. These are legally invisible persons belonging to the category of particularly sensitive groups, which are Roma. They left 30,000 legally invisible persons, which means that these individuals have been threatened by fundamental human rights, the right to have a personal document, the right to health care, the right to services in the field of social protection. By coming to the power of the SNS in 2012 it was corrected. The National Assembly adopted a legislative framework in order for those legally invisible persons to exercise their fundamental human rights, which is primarily the right to exist, and then other rights, to a personal document, to health care, to social protection, etc. Except that behind them yellow tycoons, led by Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, left 30,000 of the most vulnerable populations legally invisible, they also kidnapped children distracted in development. They kidnapped children distracted in development only through the "Hetherland" castle of 150 million. Of course, that castle was supposed to serve children distracted by development, but they put that money in their own pockets, and behind them was nothing but desolation. In contrast, by coming to the power of the SNS, along with responsible economic, water and responsible social policy. So on February 25th, last year, in Belgrade, it opened on Zvezkara, after 21 years, a shelter for children and youth. Except for the shelter, which takes care of 48 children, there's a stop for about 30 young people. It took 21 years to open a new shelter, which has 1,700 square meters. The yellow tycoons, not only did they not take care of children who, due to various living circumstances, are in such a situation, but the conditions in which they were taken care of are completely unconditional. It was at 250 meters [250 m] square shelter that was intended for those children. Furthermore, I must point out that this government, leading a responsible social policy, also marking Children's Day of Autism, on 2 April 2019, opened an organisational unit called Predah, within the framework of the Children's Development Day Centre in Belgrade, which serves to provide adequate support and assistance to both parents and children distracted by development. Finally, I would like to stress that the census will certainly be significant in terms of sensitive social groups, and this government will continue to lead responsible and social policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70504	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70505	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to confirm all these things that my colleague said before me, with what, relating to the census for all the necessary activities to be done, we have witnessed large depopulations of our communities, such as southeastern Serbia, such as municipalities near the town of Nis, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Bolec, Babušnica and a large number of such municipalities where there is a large rate of old people, where the relationship to every child born is five or six dead, where we as local self-government, in particular the municipality from which I come, put the accent on the financial assistance of families who want to live in Svrlig, through programmes of financial support to mothers, unemployed maternity, financial assistance to our children who are born. So now, in 2020, we've doubled these funds, precisely because we think it's the only way we're fighting to keep the residents in Svrlig, in the White Palanca, in Gajino Han, in those environments. But, on the other hand, the great need is to achieve what we said earlier, to increase the financial assistance of our women in the country, to increase financial assistance to children born in the country, to increase financial assistance and support underdeveloped areas that have a very high rate of age. One more thing, there's a Minister of Agriculture with us, with whom we always talk, negotiate, and I expect that during this year we will be able to change some regulations for the benefit of those environments that are in a difficult situation. It is a Serbian country that has a great and bright future, a great opportunity, but, on the other hand, we, without the support of our environments, undeveloped areas, demographically threatened environments, believe me, will not have the opportunity for Serbia to move forward, through programmes to increase financial assistance, through a programme to help our women in the country. One of the more important things I wanted to talk about, I've said it several times, that we have to have a special item and a place for children in the country. We always have to put an accent on a child in the country, who lives there, who is born there, for his mother, for his father, because there are living conditions in the country, especially in areas like Svrlig, the White Palanka, not to be repeated, in these areas it's even harder. That's why there are no shops in some villages, no shops, a large number of infirmarys are closed because there are not enough doctors in these local self-governments. Therefore, we must work on it. These must be stimulating measures. Financial assistance must be greater for such areas. On the other hand, through the IPA programme, which our President Vukic announced, it's a great opportunity. Once again, I, as president of the United Peasants' Party and MP who supports the government and who has been elected from the SNS list, will always advocate the needs of these people living in marginal areas, undeveloped areas, such as municipalities in southeast Serbia, where Nis is our center. I think the bill on the census is very important and we have to do it the best way. But our only thing is to work to stimulate areas where there's a high mortality rate, where old people are, and in that part we need more...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70506	Thank you, fellow Miletic. According to the amendment, the word is from MP Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70507	Thank you. As for the census, I think the censusers will have serious problems with the list of certain people who are obviously distracted in the development. I have to read today's tweet by Marinika Tepic, who says - it is not a problem in state policy to withdraw recognition of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course it's not a problem, here we all recognize the AP Kosovo and Metohija, it's about withdrawing the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo, which this lady obviously doesn't differ, so I wonder if the censusors will have a problem enrolling her in the citizens of Serbia or in the quacks of Morovic, where she obviously belongs by intelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70508	Thank you, colleague Krlic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70509	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Law on censuses, households and apartments in 2021. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing this amendment to add "citizenships" to Article 2nd item 8, after the words "citizenships", "who have residence in the Republic of Serbia". Article 2 explains the meaning of certain terms used in this bill. In point 8, paragraph 1, an explanation is given who is considered a foreigner, so it says that a foreigner who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, whether he is a permanent citizen or a stateless person. The year 2021 is the year in which the census should be conducted, since it has become a practice to keep a list every 10 years. We agree that the census of the population, households and dwellings is the most important statistical source of individual data on the population of a country, and this will be an opportunity for the representatives of the authorities to look a little more realistically at the situation of the population of the country whose government is. Every day we have the opportunity to listen to how they constantly praise themselves for how good the government is, and how wrong they are, they will have the opportunity to make sure after the list is completed. They will have the opportunity to see how many people have moved out of this country and to see that it is mostly young and educated people, but also that it is middle-aged educated people, to see that in many families there are mostly old people who are retired or retired and to see that many housing units are empty. In doing so, I mean not only houses in villages, in hill-mounted areas, but also apartments in cities. I will give one piece of information that there were 211 polling stations in Leskovac, and today we have 195 polling stations. So, from 16 settlements, the actual population has moved away. Only during the summer period are several members present, with a wave of older people. In Jablani County, over 15,000 inhabitants have moved, and only from Leban and the surrounding area of Italy, a whole town, located with 5,000 inhabitants from that part of Jablani County. A lot of things will show a list. We are aware that the representatives of the government will also praise themselves afterwards, but the truth about the will of statistics is inexorable and its data are the right images of the population in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70510	Thank you. According to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic has the People's MP. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70511	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, 2010 SNS came to power in the municipality of Voždovac and Zemun and we found a general miracle. So, not that there wasn't money for the list that was supposed to be in 2011, but illegal construction, whatever, empty budget. We kind of redistributed, looked at those papers, and instead of being a census in April 2011, from April 1st to 15th, unfortunately wasn't then, but since we came to power and started running a household policy, we found these money that was somehow distributed to something we didn't need and did that list from October 1st to 15th. This is an extremely important law, extremely important, because we can really see these migration flows, how many people there were. In 2011, we came up with data that the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Serbia, then for the first time in Serbia, was 7,186,862 people or residents, the number of households was 2,487,886. It's very important to say something, a few words, about our diaspora. The diaspora is believed to have a population of 2.5 million people, up to four, no one knows exactly because it is believed that our people live in 90 states of 195 sovereign states. But as Yugoslavia fell apart, and then the Serbia-Montenegro community, more than 2.5 million people were speaking Serbian in that language. However, we now have a differentiation, so he had Montenegrin, Croatian. I wouldn't go any further on that. It's very expensive to make the right list in these 90 countries. I personally believe that there must be more than 2.5 million people in Australia alone, there are over 200,000 people in America and only 300,000 people in one city, they say there are more than 40,000 people in Slovenia. I would like to know exactly how many Serbs live outside our country's borders, because they are very valuable. I love this country and all the people who live in and out of it and belong to the Republic of Serbia. What's most important is that we keep talking about people leaving Serbia. Of course, they leave, they leave in the '60s and '70s, but they come back. Mr. Lonchar said that the mass of nurses came in last year, that the doctors were returning slowly. Children go, they may be better off there, but it is very important that in 2019 613 babies were born more than in 2018. Since we passed the Financial Support Act to families with children, we have the results of the work, which is: for the first child, the parent supplement is 100,000 dinars, which is not much, but it's not very small, for the second child on a two-year level we have 10,000 on a monthly level, for the third child we have 10 years per 100 euros, and for the fourth child the stimulant is 10 years per 18,000. It never was. Thanks to the government and our Mr. President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, we passed this law, we voted it here, and we really have improvements, and every day is getting better. What is still very important is that there will be a whole new way of making a census. Portable computers will be used. Yesterday my colleague said, I want to repeat, because it's very important news, that a 650 million dinar contest for local self-government came out yesterday, in terms of inciting birth. Another improvement for the population in Serbia, for procreation. What's very nice, which was that Serbia was touching four artificial inseminations, today it's no longer valid. Serbia will touch on young couples as many times as they think they need them. The Republic of Serbia's budget allocated 500m euros in support of resolving housing issues to young married couples. There, another improvement for procreation, i.e. for a number of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, as well as 200 million for birth-stimulating. There is much more in this law, but I will follow the following amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70512	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70513	We asked to delete this point 9 in Article 2. I will again address Mr. from the Republic Statistics Office, as I do not believe that you, Mr. Nedimovic, as well as the MPs of the SNS paid attention to exactly what it says here. It's amazing that someone who came up with a description of what's meant by domesticity in Serbia can define something like this without being funny, so now I have to read part of it: that household is every family and other community of persons who live together and spend their income together to meet basic living needs, housing, food, etc., so on and on. A collective household composed of persons living in religious institutions, social protection institutions, etc. This is amazing, firstly, that in this way you are trying to penetrate the rights of all citizens of Serbia that they will consider themselves. Most recently, in the last census, you, the gentleman of the Republic Statistics Bureau, made one category in your statistical atlas, and dedicated the whole side to the whole family. To know what incomplete families mean, they are families where single parents — a single father or a single mother — are. Were you really normal when you could write something like that? Do you know what circumstances may lead to a mother being alone with a child or a father? That you write that it's an incomplete family. For every mother and every father, it's family. Or an incomplete family is an out-of-marriage community of people who don't have children. It's amazing, really, what you give yourself for rights. So what you wrote here, if it wasn't sad, would be funny. First of all, because of the fact that this can and won't be true at all. The way you get into how people in Serbia live, how they spend their money, without going further on about the economy of the household, you'll see it later in other members. You've learned, the few of you who report here that the list will be implemented, not to list the manual list, but the censuses will carry computers, laptops, and that's all you know. What else does it say here and what you're going to ask people on the spot to ask them for, so you can work out some data tomorrow. In Serbia, there is a certain percentage of people who are unfortunately only, perhaps functionally written, not to go into it now and in the process of including a certain number of people, and there you have not proved yourself to have done anything for them. Later perhaps other colleagues will talk about it, but this is how you treat the Serbian family. If you wrote it well, it's a family and it's that, you know what it is, it's a pillar of this society and not just this one, but every country, not you took some coins from the EU there, who knows who translated it, so there's everything decadent and abnormal. We want how does a country that has established traditional values that we've been promoting for centuries to follow some kind of surreal understanding of these friends of yours from the EU?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70514	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Mr. Markovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70515	I thank the chairman. The brutal dictatorship and persecution of the ruling regime in Montenegro continue. It has just been arrested and Montenegrin anti-Serb regime Milo Djukanovic's party leader, is continuing the persecution of the Serb people in Montenegro, with unfounded arrest without any reason, members of the Serb people in Montenegro. I will remind you, early this morning, the family, namely the mother and brother of the MP of the Democratic Front, Milan Knezevic, was arrested. Here, we are now listening, i.e. we have read that the party's president, Mr. Marko Milocic, has also been arrested, and it is obvious that the Montenegrin anti-Serbian regime, Milo Djukanovic, has been largely restrained, shows serious signs of anxiety as a result of the Serb people's single appearance in opposition to such a regime, because of the adoption of a controversial law on freedom of religion. My message is that, let them continue to arrest, just let them arrest, the Serbian people survive and the difficult moments, the Serbian people are used to fighting, the Serbian people are also used to occasionally through history and suffering and the Serbian people will find ways to cope with and with such evils, which Milo Djukanovic personifies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70516	Thank you, colleague Markovic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such a bill of law was needed to regulate a rather messy area and as far as the population and households and apartments are concerned and to answer many questions. Speaking of apartments, there's a very prominent phenomenon here. In fact, there are too many apartments where there are no people, and where there are people there are no apartments, because the apartments are in the country, and people are in the city. The essence of this whole story is in demographic recovery. Family as an institution is highly endangered from all sides. I'd say most of all with European values. After World War II, it was a minor influence of European values. There was much more poverty, but the children were much more. We can't change the age structure of the population, but we can increase the number of newborns. Problems don't have to, and they can't wait for a demographic list. Without serious measures to restore the population, our future is both dreary and cruel. The point of the whole story is that if the census results are not used for new demographic and sociological research, there will be no valid government policy, and that means our suffering will be growing. The list will come and go. Our knowledge or ignorance defines our future. I'm also going to provide an amazing piece of information as part of the previous story. There is no teaching object in our agricultural cathedrals called agricultural, or family land. The teaching subjects in the name mention various technologies, economies, pharmacies, but not the village, and from the village the demographic restoration of the nation should take place. By keeping and helping those who want to stay in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70518	Thank you. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the republican budget and the control of budget spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70519	It is good that you accepted this amendment because not all diplomatic and military representations of foreign states and their facilities exist in the Republic of Serbia were not covered. In the bill of law, you suggested that it be in which they live. They can't live there without having so many of these facilities and now the question is, since you've started what we're insisting on today, and we're looking for, for the new arrests of the Serb leaders in Montenegro, what has the state of Serbia done? Military, diplomatic representations and these countries exist in this country. Did you send a protest note? Did you invite that ambassador of theirs? Have you spoken to the UN? You can do anything as the authority of both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. Don't just make it declarative, we're sitting here, we have the Census Act, and we need to imagine ourselves above the fact, and that's what I'm going to end up with, Mr. Minister, according to the 1909 census, 98.9% of them in Montenegro have declared themselves Serbs. Today, it is only 30 percent because of what they have done, first of all, Broz's communists, and then continued mobster Milo Djukanovic, to be assimilated and that the remaining number of 30% is intimidated, arrested, to be kidnapped by our Serbian Orthodox Church and our sanctity. Don't just use the opportunity to say it because it's news on the Internet and some media, but do it specifically, and that's what we asked you to do more than a month ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70520	Thank you. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70521	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6(1). Proposal for a census law, households and apartments in 2021. We in this House make a large number of laws, but this is one of the most significant laws. He tells us who we are, what we are and how many we are. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia and the other countries in which we lived did not take this seriously. Here, above all, I am referring to the census on Kosovo and Metohija territory. We all know that the list downstairs has never been done properly. The number of Serbs is always shown in a reduced volume, while with the Shiptars it was vice versa. That fact was the generator of everything we have on KIM today. That's why I'm asking the government's representatives, how do they think they're doing the list on KIM territory? Here, above all, I think of those environments that still have a Serb population. As a person who was born and grew up in KIM, I've always shown interest in this area. I've personally collected, researched all the data I've come up with on this. The data I came up with is very interesting, and they say that Serbs have represented the majority population of KIM for centuries. Here, on this point, I offer my help, I'm ready to submit all the data I've come to, and I'm also ready to volunteer on the upcoming list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70522	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70523	The last census of the population, households and apartments was implemented in 2011, we all know that, and in order to implement a new census in 2021, we need to adopt this law that is on the agenda. There is a difference between how to fill in, i.e. to realize this list in 2011 and 2021. In a positive sense, we have made progress, we will no longer fill out the paper questionnaires, but now we are going to do the use of portable computers, electronic questionnaires, etc., and that will be great and it's really quite high-quality. However, what will be devastating are the results that we will get from this list. God forbid you made this list in 2019, hardly you could go to the election with the kind of belief you have now, that you would be just as unattainable in percentages. What you will find in the list is, in fact, in Article 6, you have clearly and accurately stated what you need to list next to your personal names and last names. What will be important, and what you will have to show in public and later, is that you will also list emigration, means places of change of residence, changes of residence, why someone has gone, the reasons why he left, whether he has returned, how many hectares of the country he has left, what he has lived on, what he will live on, how many families there are members, etc. Then, employment status, jobless, busy for a certain period of time, you'll see how many people you work for at a certain time and why, etc. You'll see the state of the nation, you'll see the state of education of the nation, you'll see what kind of education people have that's inadmissible, you'll see how many educated people you've gone to, etc. What's more important, you'll also see that economic activity that you prescribed out there. There you will see the personal and family debts of our families, etc. What you're about to conclude is that a huge number of people have gone into recovery. So it will be a devastating picture of Serbia. Now, how are you going to solve these problems since you claim to be in power in 2021? Problems and these devastating results will be problems for all of Serbia, because Serbia is not the individual private property of any party, but we all share the consequences of all of you who have led this country so far. These problems cannot be solved by any party, nor by any regime, nor by any institution you have so far. Why? Because these institutions are bad, because these are the problems that have created bad personnel, made your ignorance and made the rules that you had to implement, that is to say, to adopt for the sake of that trip to the EU. You will see this in this list, this road to the EU, how much it cost the citizens of Serbia health, education, family preservation, the preservation of households, jobs and everything else. In addition, you will see that over four billion euros are coming to this country from the diaspora, that people are supporting themselves from their relatives outside, that people are not supporting themselves from their work, and that will be just as devastating. It will also be devastating that you will have to, in addition to your "Duing Business List", which you are saying is maximum, given... I'm begging you, colleague Zukorlic, if you could keep your voice down while I speak, because you're interrupting my concentration. Let me just tell you what's gonna be the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that you will see how much emigration within the state, how many villages are abandoned, how many hectares do you have, hundreds of hectares of perfect property, perfect areas for agriculture, for livestock farming, for tourism, how much you don't even know that there are these villages, as far as you don't know you have access roads. You're talking about highways like you're talking about a spaceship. Well, of course, highways are highways and they're needed, but what's even more necessary are rural roads to keep people on their property. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, what matters to you is the unsettled disaster, is that people in hilly and mountainous places are the factful owners of certain land, but they are not legal. They can't be typed because it's not shared anywhere, i.e. It's shared in fact, but it's not legal. So, they can't apply you to certain subsidies, they're out of state, off-flows, off-limits. You also have ways that are inaccessible. You have a very specific case in the border area of the village of Krina Reka. Here, I'm talking about it in public for the first time. I like to say that I'm from there because I'm proud of where I come from, but I'm not saying it for myself, I'm talking about so much space that's perfect for tourism, for raspberries, for potatoes, for livestock, for parts of a road of eight kilometers that's paved, which is impeccable, believe me, from November to May of the month. People were talking to the Ministry of Infrastructure, and here's my paper. The Ministry of Infrastructure told them - talk to local self-government. Your local self-government in Bruce doesn't work. That road doesn't clean up. These people are cut off from the world. Those kids can't go to school. You must, in order to know how Serbia lives for you, come down among the people. You must know, if it's the King, where is Borovo, where is Brezna, where is Bresnik, where are the Watchers, where is Gokchanica, how these people live, where is the dive, why is the dive now. What if the child’s temperature is 39 - 40, who will reach the doctor, in what way? When you have this picture, and you're going to have to show it to the citizens, then you're going to be in big trouble. Then you will say and then you will have to call on all the professional public that exists in the country of Serbia to try to solve it together, because that is not your problem. Your problems are probably something else, that in the mandate you will earn as much commission as possible, not solve citizens' problems, and this will be your picture and opportunity for Serbia as it is. Let me tell you, in addition to this "Ding Business List" that gives you the right to speak and shut your mouth to Serbian radicals, we can talk about it in another way, and this "Ding Business List" has just brought you all these troubles to the citizens of Serbia. What you don't know, and now you know, the second parameter is that you're in 132th place, that is, because this isn't your Serbia, this is our Serbia, and we're in 132nd place at the capacity to keep educated people out of 137 countries in the world. As far as attracting educated people is concerned, we are in 134 places, or 132, for two places is just a difference. It's a speaking parameter that's most important to the development of a country, and we're not at issue with the development of a country right now, and we're now on the subject of the survival of a country and a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70524	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the People's Republic of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70525	Article 6 refers to data on persons to be subject to the list in 2021. It's quite alarming what you plan to list, the way it's planned and the possibility of falsifying data. We ask that the consequences of the list be precision, accuracy, true data, which could lead to serious analysis after the census and to solve problems that may arise during the census and after the census. There are some questions here that, let me tell you, a lot of people aren't going to give you the right answer, because that's the kind of question. You can't get anyone to tell you something that you've estimated should be said, and it doesn't matter to the data that matters and which should be important to the list and as a consequence of the census. You've got some pretty vague formulas here too. You say - there will be a marriage status, whether a person lives in an out-of-marriage community. Well, marriage status is also an out-of-marriage community, marital status is both a divorced person and a widower or a widower, as well as a person who lives alone. So it's all marital status. What does this mean to you if he lives in an out-of-marriage community? Do you introduce under the grain the legalization of gay marriages, without passing laws that would otherwise solve it? A question of nationality, nationality, as well as religion, is a question one can answer, but it doesn't have to answer. We are here again afraid of these artificial nations. We fear that the consequences of this will be that more and more municipalities in Serbia will seek introduction, for example. Montenegrin language, which is invented as a Montenegrin nation. That's why it has to be a little more serious here. How will you answer the question of “the most acquired education” of people who are absolutely certainly known to have received diplomas without ever finishing those high schools? How are you going to treat them in this list? Like having a diploma or for college-educated people? The difference is really drastic. You say, "The censusors will ask the people about the absent and present members." How will you treat absent household members, who are in Serbia especially in the south and east of our country there are, are unofficial data, about 300,000, who are practically unemployed, but are formally not there because they work mainly in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and on black? They go there, they work for two or three months, and then they run away, if they don't get caught. If they get caught, they get sent back to Serbia. They can't come to apply for their employment in their municipalities because of that, and you can wipe them off the list of unemployed and so at least 300,000 people are really unemployed, and in your record, because statistics can draw anything, as well as statistics, my dick, what I want to paint. That's true. Of course this doesn't mean we're against statistics. No, but we're against finging, but we're against painting, but we're against makeup. We are, then, for authentic and accurate data. How they will answer your question and whether and why someone will answer your question – the way they travel to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70526	Time, time is spent. Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70527	Thank you, Chairman. Proposal for a Census and Households Act for 2021, the SRS amendment refers to Article 7. The proposal for a law is added to paragraph 2 which reads - in addition to the data set out in Article 1 of the list, the data on agricultural production, households are collected in order to identify agricultural holdings for the purpose of the agricultural list. This proposal provides for a list of the population planned from 1 to 30 April 2021, it is required for each person covered by the census to answer all questions and to give an exact answer, noting that the person is not obliged to declare his nationality and religion, of course, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the amendments to the SRS in the case of agriculture, i.e. agricultural production and the list of agricultural holdings, we believe that this is a unique opportunity to establish their number as far as possible. As we know, these lists are carried out every 10 years, and we know what our age structure of people in the country is, as many of them are not registered. There are some 4,800 villages in Serbia today. A, from the list to the list. In 10 years, this number has been reduced by almost one quarter. The launched campaign, "The Village for the 21st Century", receives only 20 out of the total number of assistance. It's clear to all of us that we're poor, but something has to be done. Instead of having every house in the village a small farm or a mini company, and the village to be “Ethno village” or an eco-center...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70528	Thank you. Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70529	... It's a center for tourism and recreation.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70530	Thanks, time. Your parliamentary group now has two minutes per proposal. The 8th Amendment is the afternoon folk heir, Milorad Mircic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70531	Article 9 of this Bill, which states what bodies are responsible for the implementation of the census and, above all, the most responsible body for the implementation of the census and the preparation of the census, is certainly the Republic Bureau of Statistics, local self-government. You see here how well it's written, units of local self-government, remember in one of the previous laws that we said was JLS. So, special organisations, and we said to delete it, because besides several ministries, besides RZZS, units of local self-government, are said -- other bodies, organisations and institutions. So that's one broad term that covers all of that. We have submitted a number of amendments to this bill. Some refer to essential shortcomings, and some of us wanted to fix the quality of this law. What is most important to us is that what is obtained after the established census of the population, households and dwellings is truly true, no matter how difficult and painful, then we will look at the situation and see how and how it should be solved. We especially want to influence you from the RZZS, by performing, but a very serious training of the members of the list committee, as well as the censusors. Don't look at belongings, party membership, don't convince me now, don't try, don't need to, because it has nothing to do with it, because it has to do with how much it matters, but to try a reduced number of censusors from a time ago, because of the use of laptop cannons on the ground, and it's extended in another way, how long that list will last. Try to be the ones who are the best. Try to help the Serbs in Montenegro also during this period to implement the census and there by providing them with specific suggestions, certain trainings and what we have from experience, to help the picture and there to be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70532	Thank you. The 9th Amendment is the afternoon MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another set of laws to be passed under EU and European legislation recommendations. What bothers me most about this law is the fact that there will be no more censuses, at least not in the sense that we have done so far, by working on the ground. We know from many experiences that fieldwork can't replace anything. Even if we can thank our occupiers for something, it is the fact that they did censuses and where we can use those data in some previous period, that there were so many Serbs on certain territory, so let's say on the basis of Austro-Hungarian data, we know that on the territory of today's Republic of Croatia, according to their first census, they lived for the shade of more Serbs than Croats. Perhaps my colleague Marko Atlagic could say more about it, he does. Many of the Serbian last names we have today were created at that time. So, this field work is also important, and we as politicians, people who deal with politics right before the new elections and without the campaign, we know it well, regardless of all the media and all the other resources, we know that we have to get on the ground to every voter and see what the mood is like. So we should not accept the EU recommendation in this respect, because every country and every nation has its specificities. It was never clear to me why, when data is reported, always between two signatures, there are estimated to be so many of us. If any of the lists were done precisely...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70534	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70535	It's unnecessary that what you've predicted is some kind of governing body, the Statistical Office needs this job to work, otherwise we have so many in the state of various central registers of this or that, there are indeed some that make sense and that are needed, and there are also which are unnecessary and best would be how you wrote here in an explanation that you're taking data from these registers. What it'll look like, what kind of papaziania will get you, we'll just see. It's impossible, and it's inadmissible that you're even thinking about this being the last list, and the list has to be on paper, so that the data is inserted into computers, then processed, and these new ones of yours, leave it somewhere else. You say here in this explanation that in the process of Serbia's EU accession, whatever it means, since there is no EU, there is no Serbia there either, the data listed are important for reporting on the progress of the multi-contracting chapters. This is very interesting, and I'd rather say sad. What information will you make as a success for this EU of yours? What you told the Ministers about agriculture, agricultural land. I don't have time now, maybe through the next amendment. How much land did this Al Rafaed, 10,400 hectares under the wheat, have 2,500 properties left in the lease. Matijević, 30,000 hectares, Miodrag Kostic 25,000 hectares. These are the tycoons that a colleague in power said the other day that a tycoon can't be someone who's in touch with the authorities, who doesn't have the help of the government. These are these newly-compromised tycoons that have obviously contacts with the authorities, and we have to have that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70536	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70537	Article 11 speaks of a census committee, we intervened in paragraph 3, where the bill provides for a census commission to count from three to seven members, by proposing members of the local self-government unit cities and the city of Belgrade, to be appointed by the Republic Statistics Office. In this total number of members will be one representative of the Republic Statistics Office. We have proposed by amendment that this number be replaced from three to seven from three to five. That's quite enough, because we didn't recognize in this article the 11th criteria based on which the Republic Statistics Bureau would say she general. They could even understand that the municipalities they have from that to that number can have between three and five, those that are larger, the city of Belgrade can be between seven and nine. That's what you didn't do and leave doubt that you in all units of local self-government and where you should and where you shouldn't, will mostly go to this maximum number. You guys still have a lot of leaks here. You've defined the family household, that is, if someone spends their income together. I think in one family you can agree that everyone spends what they've earned, so you weren't exactly accurate enough with this law. Given that this is a one-time law, it will enter into force within a certain period of time from the day of adoption and its importance will also apply and the importance will cease to exist the moment the census is completed. If so, then you should have made a little effort and a slightly more serious bill to propose to the National Assembly. We still don't argue that the census, the apartments, is a very serious thing, a very complex thing, and God knows, there'll probably be some pucks if these censusors write objectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70538	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Nemanja Sarovic: I want a word. I didn't see you in the O.R. I'm sorry. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Members of the People's Parliament of the 33rd Amendment, speaks, or prescribes some criminal provisions for censusors, instructors and others who participate in this census procedure and propose fines are between 30,000 and 50,000 dinars. We have suggested that those penalties be reduced because we believe that much more important than the level of punishment is the certainty of applying the penalty. And that is what is the general problem in Serbia today and what is the problem of all previous years, which are some regulations, but these rules do not apply. We had opportunities, and we warned, and when there was a list in Montenegro, what the pressures were, what all the abuses were, many did not take it seriously at the time, but as we see today, this leads to many harmful consequences. The number of those who feel like Serbs in Montenegro has been artificially reduced by those who speak Serbian and today what many did not believe would ever be possible, that some in Montenegro who are parents of Serbs, grandmothers and grandfathers of Serbs, think that they are montenegrins or militants. You, as a regime, are expressing some formal concern and I hear from this morning that some have been crouching over their fate and saying – they are ready to protect the Serbs, they can do it. And I ask you, if you're ready, if you can, why don't you protect them? And what is it that you specifically did? What exactly did the state do? She didn't do anything. You have many opportunities: to seek a Security Council session, to withdraw the ambassador, to break diplomatic relations, a whole series of diplomatic measures you have at your disposal, you haven't done one, and this very soft stance is to support the Montenegrin regime in what it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70540	Thank you. You're way out of line. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70541	Whoever was here yesterday, so listen, we talked about this, could hear exactly what all those who do not think well of the Serbian people in general, and not to the Serbian people in Montenegro, would have been given any alibi to those who today inhumanely treat our countrymen in Montenegro, to get out of the situation they themselves, and nothing good was done to themselves or Serbs, but to anyone third in Montenegro, to say – you see, all the time we talked about Belgrade standing behind this, that there is some kind of conspiracy of political nature that wants to destroy an independent Montenegro, and that is exactly the kind of justification we never wanted to give them, and all the time we respect, absolutely respect that Serbia and Montenegro are both saying, and unfortunately we would love to be different, but there are not, two different states, but there are some kind of justifications that you have to have, and there are some arguments that you have to be, and there are certain that there are certain that there are certain that there are some of people who are wrongs that there that there that you and that there that are not. What did Alexander Vukic do, what did the Serbian Progressive Party do, and officially Serbia, if you will, for the Serbian people in Montenegro? Here, you, how many days have we been repeating, have you ever asked the Serbs of Montenegro – how do you feel about what Serbia is doing for you today? Do you know why you're not asking? Because you know their answer. You know he will say -- no one has done more for the Serbian people in Montenegro than Alexander Vukic and the government brought together by the Serbian Progressive Party, no one ever. And you know well that he will say that thanks to Serbia's official Serbs in Montenegro today have much more when it comes to the media, the opportunity to protect their interests, and when it comes to the church in Montenegro, when it comes to their institutions and institutions and the cultural club and the Matica of Serbia, when it comes to the areas of which they are gathering, which they organise all their activities, they have all this thanks to Alexander Vucic, the government led by the Sprska Progressive Party, personally. What do those who impertinently ask us what we did, and never with their little finger moved, except that they missed the debate yesterday, and here they showed up five seconds ago to say, "Article 33 and they don't even know how far we got, so they never did anything, so successful, so big a political one, they'll never do anything."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70542	Thank you. Let's move on. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. There is no basis for replication. Nemanja Sarovic: How is there no basis? He talked to me all the time. (Vladimir Orlic: No. That seems to you, but he didn't mention you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70543	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, on the draft law on censuses, households and apartments for the year 2021,... Serbian Radical Party intervention refers to Article 12 paragraph 1 point 7. Proposal for a law where we have sought to delete part of the text "and special organisation", with the reason that some special organisations participate in the census which is unacceptable. I would like to say that such a law was necessary, given the chaotic situation in this area, which should finally be regulated in a unique manner, as well as all the competences and obligations of the ministries and other bodies and organisations, and in particular the tasks and tasks of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which is responsible for the whole of this project. The data obtained in the list shall be kept permanently in electronic form, and the Director of the Republic Statistics Office shall adopt a special act on the storage and storage of these data. In this context, to add that the data obtained can be used exclusively for statistical purposes and cannot be given to other legal and physical persons. As for the position of the Serbian Radical Party, this is all beautifully imagined and packaged, and whether and how it will be implemented remains to be seen. We lack teamwork, collective work of the Ministry of Tourism and Trade, Agriculture, Transport, Environmental Protection and Culture and Information. The question is why culture and information, and for the simple reason that the village is not in the media, only two shows on the so-called so-called. To the national frequency, to the rest of the former times, we only mention the village when someone is robbed or killed, and we need culture because someone has to preserve our people's traditional heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70544	Thank you. The title above Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70545	Thank you, Madam President. What the SRS MPs have said also noted was that, in particular Nikola Savic, the EU's recommendations should not be accepted, and given today's news that the radical Johnson England has drawn from the EU. We don't need the EU, therefore. As for the census, Article 15 provides that diplomatic consular representations should carry out a detailed list of our citizens abroad. In practice, it was also controversial when elections were held, and it was conducted by DS and DOS, all votes were almost attributed to the regime and in this way we did not have enough review, nor were these data actually used, nor were the votes received abroad for political parties. I would only take the opportunity, if you would allow me, to ask the Minister of Agriculture to tell us if there are enough inspectors to supervise within the Ministry and how many ministers, or agricultural inspectors in the local, city and municipality? According to my knowledge, within the framework of your ministry, there should be five inspectors, if that's true, it doesn't have to mean that this information may not be true, but if it's true that there are only five, and there should be at least 50 of them, this mafia is at the bar, where there are abuses in terms of renting state agricultural land, it has to be a detailed state to control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70546	Thank you. The title above Article 16 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70547	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, within their work and tasks set out in this draft law in the implementation of certain tasks relating to the census, are participating in certain ministries, including the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Issues to which this amendment applies. In accordance with the Government Act, we have submitted several amendments relating to titles above members, where it is clearly stated by the Ministry of Justice, Defence, Foreign Affairs, and not by the Ministry of Justice, etc., that I do not list. The specific amendment that I have tabled, on behalf of the parliamentary group, concerns Articles 16 and 16 of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and you are in line with why this amendment refuses to state that this is because it is a single, methodological rule for the making of rules, prescribed that when determining the authority of the State Administration should not specify the names of those bodies, but rather determine them in one general way. However, the law must clearly and precisely define all legal norms, and nothing at all stands to be interpreted one way or another, and given that this amendment is in accordance with the Government Act, I urge you to accept this amendment as well as the amendments of my colleagues to the other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70548	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70549	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers with associates, I agree with the government's opinion that the amendment should not be accepted. Why? Because the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, in accordance with its legal powers, is also responsible for social protection institutions in which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are located. In view of the proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments, and that persons located in social protection institutions are also citizens of Serbia, it is undeniable that they should be included in the census. The social protection institutions, which are responsible for the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, have a total of 20,652 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of these persons, social protection institutions for children in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are located 20 institutions and three institutions for raising children and youth, and as far as the institution for adults and old people in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, there are 56 state homes and 207 licensed private homes in which adults and old persons are located. What I particularly want to point out is that in the last five years, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, together with the Government, has also worked to improve social protection services at local level to facilitate the lives of these citizens who are potential users of social protection institutions. So on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, the municipalities from which I come have five developed social protection services thanks to the responsible local self-government policy, but also to the financial support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which these most sensitive and most vulnerable provide social protection services to remain in its natural environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70550	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70551	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, collective centres, refugees, it is almost incomprehensible that a people who have been ethnically brutally cleaned in the territory of the state that he created, who has turned into a memorial of the Serb people, is almost amazing that the people who have been brutally ethnically cleansed will be charged with ethnic cleansing. There are collective centres today. The only fault of the Serbian people is that he was trying to preserve the state he created. That nation was an armature of the former Yugoslavia. During these yellow accidents, Serbia, towards which the former Yugoslav republics treated as the rest of the SFRY, was in a kind of protectorate that works by the international community, as former Yugoslav republics. It was the time of Boris's crawling apology, and Milo Djukanovic used to acquire his sovereignty while Boris Tadic, originally a Montenegrin, while Marovic was the president of the common state, Milo Djukanovic of Montenegro, and Boris Tadic of Serbia, was used to being very easy to separate from the Republic of Serbia, from the common state at a time when they ruled from all three states. That time of crawling apology is over. But today in Montenegro, it's as if we have a continuation of the humiliation of the Serbian people. Milo Djukanovic belonged to the Serbian people, whom he humiliated because of some of his personal interests. He humiliated the Serbs in Montenegro as a nation, now humiliates them as believers. He is trying to get out of his economic and social disasters and to blame it on a Serb people who are justifiably rebelling over the depravation of religious rights. First, he humiliated them by recognising the state of "Kosovo", humiliating them by celebrating "Storms", humiliating them by entering NATO. Now he's trying to humiliate them as believers. He is trying to provoke the Republic of Serbia to take a wrong step. Mr. Djukanovic needs to know that we will not take that wrong step, that we will not give him reason to say he has a problem with Serbia. Mr. Djukanovic, you have no problem with Serbia, you have a problem with the Serbian people. And not only with the Serbian people in Montenegro, but with all the citizens of Montenegro because of the poor economic situation you brought him into. Don't try to provoke us, because it won't work. But, Mr Djukanovic, we are aware and respect Montenegro's integrity, while you have recognised the state, a false state in Serbia's territory, we have never done that Montenegro, nor will we do it, not only for the sake of the Serb people, but also for the citizens of Montenegro because we want to have the best relations. Don't try, Mr. Djukanovic, to provoke us. It is that we live in two separate states, but we are the same people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70552	Parliamentarian Dubravko Bojic has submitted to the title above the member and member of the 19th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the census is a complex statistical survey, specifically both by its content and by its organisation and methodology. It's something that suggests that after the census, there's going to be a lot of storage. The list offers indicators for future state policy. As she understands the results of the census, such a future will have citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, our village research today is quite rare and demographic and sociological. In Serbia, the most endangered are old, so-called Third generation. A lot of them live in the country. They're poor in health and social and material conditions. So, 61% of the kids who went away don't help their parents. There's little understanding between them. Children occasionally reach their parents when they need to take something, and parents rely on neighbors. Just look at the structure of the Serbian peasant household. There is no warm human word in the village to many. For many, there is only a mental noun left. Known Serbian academic professor Radomir Lukic founded the Village Research Association at the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. More than 800 chronicles were done on that occasion, but this is an individual example. While others are silent about it, the Serbs are getting smaller, so it won't be hard to write us down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70554	Ambassador Milorad Mircic tabled the title above the member and article 21 of the amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70555	The fee should be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the Republic Statistics Office. It is very interesting that the Bureau of Statistics determines the fees to the persons I spoke about yesterday, who perform temporary and occasional listing jobs. The surveyor doing this job by the surveyed household gets 1,350 dinars, plus transport, etc. A surveyer who surveyes and lists a household over 100 km away receives a fee of 1,200 dinars. We couldn't understand this logic. If it goes 100 km away from the place of residence, it will get 1,200 dinars of compensation, and if it works here somewhere near its house, it will get 1,350 dinars. There's obviously something wrong here. Let him try it. Maybe Sinisha Mali will do it better than the man who heads this finance department. That is why, among other things, we propose that this is done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This data we're going to get from this list, we're repeating, it's not going to be good, although we're afraid that after this list, very quickly and before the data is really processed, so you're going to use the laptop, so you're going to be able to throw it out the way you're going to memorize the data. We're afraid there's going to be a lot for the first time in history, that we'll have the best data in all possible areas. And again, what's real is very different. We acknowledge and accept everything that is better for the shade than it was, but we cannot admit that Boris Tadic alone is guilty, and he is a very guilty and yellow authority, for relations with Montenegro, when, for example, Sveta Marovic stays three by year, and the right hand of Milo Djukanovic, stays in... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70556	Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 25th amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Parliament to Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70557	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when it comes to the actions of persons covered by the list and persons performing the work, we have submitted an amendment in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which we have specified this provision. Namely, the person to be included in the list is not obliged to declare his nationality and religion, which the censusor informs him of. We agree somewhat with your explanation where you also state what is in accordance with the Constitution, but also with the practices in the previous lists, the censusors have often not stressed that the nationality and religion of the person covered by the list does not have to be declared. And in order not to get into awkward situations, we have specified this provision and we invite you to accept this intervention. I would refer to some more problems that have arisen during previous lists and certain abuses. Namely, the censuses were paid on the list. Now, when listing households in which there are several members, they have insisted that members of that household be declared to live in special households, because persons covered by the census mean nothing to them, nothing endangers them, while the censusers mean it because they will get more money. Then, if we have a couple with, say, two children, but the children are one of the spouses of the previous marriage, the interrogator comes into an awkward situation when asking questions about the number of live births. So we point out that this question needs to be more precisely defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70558	The 28th Amendment was submitted by the Prophet Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70559	Since lists of persons temporarily present in the census, it would really be good here in the context of what is happening to Serbs in Montenegro, they should also take special account of these data from those persons who are temporarily present in the census and who declare themselves as Montenegrins, so they do not have a permanent stay in the state of Serbia and are probably here to falsely present that Serbs are in colleges, so that they can enroll themselves under favourable conditions in colleges. Maybe this list is an opportunity to take it a little more seriously and take it into account. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, we are absolutely in favour of the fact that the Serbs of Montenegro have all possible privileges in Serbia, but somehow it is seen that this is not being abused here in Serbia by these Montenegrins, the miloreans, as they are called. The question is, how are you going to update after these lists, how are you going to update, how did you write from the administrative sources of data, since this is going to be the last list in 2021? How will you, for example, update the data coming to work? Will the face still go to work? Will it change the way you get to work? Is he gonna walk in the car? Will it change the place of residence, or just in the same place of residence, but the place of residence? How are you going to determine if, say, someone in the same marital status? How are you going to do that from these administrative sources? Can someone in between the two lists get married and married and divorced twice, and how will you have the correct information about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70560	Thank you. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, once again, regarding this list and Article 33. I have already mentioned for a little while that much more important is the certainty of punishment and the mechanism in which it will be determined whether the censusor, instructor or someone else was doing their job in accordance with the law. It would be good if the minister, if possible, told us what I really don't believe, how many criminal penalties were charged during the previous census. And that might also be the best indicator as much as this law, as well as the previous list, which was very, very similar, had no elaborated mechanisms. It practically makes these provisions absurd. I mentioned that even in Montenegro, where there were obvious and obvious pressures, there was no punishment for censusors, and this all led to this situation that we are in today. You claim that you have done a lot for the Serbian people in Montenegro and that it has never been done for the Serbian people in Montenegro again, but it is also the fact that the Serbian people are there today in the most difficult situation. During the Turks, they were less threatened than they were today. At least at that time they were unique, at least everyone knew they were Serbs, and then they knew they had the sincere and unreserved support of the entire Serbian people. To talk about being singled out of the budget for this or for that purpose of so much or so funds, and not to make any concrete move in moments when the Serb people in Montenegro are struck by a blow and when it is obvious that Milo Djukanovic's regime plans to cause some bloody disorder and that this will not end, it makes you accomplices... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70562	Thank you. On Article 35 of the amendment... . Vladimir Orlic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70563	No one should teach the Serbs in Montenegro what they think, who they support and who they love. That's what they say. And they certainly know very well, much better than someone who spends his days wandering around Belgrade in vain and walking around cafes. Now, these Serbs say -- their leader and their protector is Aleksandar Vukic, just like for all Serbs in the whole region, in Serbia, but also in all other areas where Serbs live. That's what those people over there say. And so much for the insolent notes that he's an accomplice to something. Who has feelings for what is happening to the Serbian people, so who was the first to talk about it in this room here? Ever since it started all over that law, they were the first MPs to sit on this side. Who was the first to talk about it today? Well, our MP, Aleksandar Markovic, showed this and said -- this is what happened to the family of MEPs in Montenegro, this is a brig in his mother's apartment, a 70-year-old woman. We've condemned it, if anyone asks, if we know anything or don't know anything. And that the tragedy is that what is happening and that is the main reason, the root of this tragedy, in the devastating fact that Serbs are not themselves today, so some feel that Serbs are, and some have forgotten and considered it different. That's right. But who fights it first? Who talks first - consciousness, unity, style, brothers? This is Alexander Wolf. Who set up the policy that says unity in the first place? Unity in the first place, so that's Alexander Vucic. And who shows this by political practice, so today unites Serbs, not only in Serbia, where it has absolute support, but also in this Montenegro, and Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska first, but also in the Federation, and Serbs in Croatia, and Serbs in northern Macedonia? Who today has the absolute support of all Serbs and Serbian representatives in Kosovo and Metohija? Well, that's Alexander Wolf. So if it's a message from the people's unity, then it's a message from Alexander Vukic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70564	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: If you could, Majo... I would beg that no one throws me away, since I keep quiet all the time. I don't know what it takes to communicate that kind with me? I don't understand. You, Sarovic, wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure No, he didn't ask for a replica. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Are replicas prohibited?)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70565	Mrs. Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. A member of 107 has been injured who says that every speaker is obliged to respect him, that direct address to another MP is prohibited, use of offensive expressions, etc. It's also punishable to tell lies, you know, it's ugly, and it's an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, and it's kind of casual to talk nonsense. Who first started and started that topic... (President: Please refrain from harming the Rules of Procedure, not giving yourself permission to replicate. Here, that's exactly what I'm doing, Mrs. Gojkovic. Therefore, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured by Mr. Orlic’s deception of some facts. He claims it's the SNS that started certain topics... (President: Don't convince his words, I understand what you're calling for. I explain how the dignity of the National Assembly was hurt. Quietly, I can't do that, Mrs. Gojkovic. I have two minutes to explain. Listen to reason, so if you're not satisfied, then act. I can't explain it to you. (President: Thank you for teaching. Use your time more meaningful than in the discussion with me. My time, I've got 35 seconds left, and if you stop interrupting me, I'll use it more meaningfully. But you are the goal of making it impossible for me to say what I want. That's your goal, obviously. Protector of the Serbs Alexander Vukic. Is in RIC with Milo Djukanovic about it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70566	Yes, I understood your intentions. I have the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to react and conduct a session. No injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. Take notes and see that no one has spoken to you personally in the previous discussion. Marijan Risticevic by amendment or by next amendment? Go ahead. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70567	By amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all because of the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, I would like to say that politics often does not matter what you have said and how hotly you have said, but what you have not said. A smart man doesn't say everything he thinks, but he means everything he says. I'm trying to act like one, and that's why I'm appealing to dignity again. The Serbian people are an honorable and dignified people. Serbia has regained its dignity, not only to itself, but also to its people, citizens of Serbia and its people wherever they live, from New Karlovac to Alaska, if you will. That dignity of the Serbian people has been restored. Milo Djukanovic made a tragic mistake because the Serbian people, according to the tradition of the former Yugoslav republics, do not see him as their people who have lived there for centuries, but sees him as someone else's people, and the Serb people who plead as Serbs or as Montenegrins have over 70% in Montenegro. Over 70% are SPC believers. He hit the sanctity of that nation, hit the national identity, destroyed national dignity. Now he's hitting them as well as the believers. I repeat, there is no problem Milo Djukanovic with Serbia, no. Serbia does not interfere with Montenegro's internal affairs, but Serbia preserves the dignity of the Serbian people wherever they live. We live in different countries, but we are the same people and Milo Djukanovic must know that for this reason we are interested in the fate of the Serbian people in Montenegro. We will not step down from that, we will not destroy the integrity of Montenegro, especially not in the way Djukanovic did it – by recognising Kosovo and Metohija, the wild state of Kosovo in our southern province, the demarcation with the wild state on our territory, the celebration of the "Storm", by sending various missions to Pristina, etc. No, we will not destroy the integrity of Montenegro, but we will take care and care and ask for a unique Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70568	Thank you. The 35th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70569	We specifically asked for a form to be prescribed here, not some questionnaire, based on which the censusors would collect relevant data. For one population and for a state by statistical -- a methodological approach that is determined by international standards, but not the EU, sir, I must again address you, and there is no Mr Kovacevic, Serbia is a signator and a member of the UN, and it is precisely known everywhere in the world that these data can be sought. So, the sex, the age structure, as many as there are children, that's the data that should be on these patterns, not that you're making up things that go to work, whether kids go on foot. What will it mean to you now if in some village there, from Aljinović, children go to elementary school for an hour and a half on foot. Or on some hill there in the village of the Old Mountain. Please don't make fun of the population list. The population should be covered by those segments and those parameters as it is everywhere in the world, and not by you to invent a hole in a pothole, as you would say. These data can only serve you for some kind of research purposes to falsify some data. If you really want to know how many employees, unemployed, how many people live in rural areas, in the country... Oh, yeah, I forgot, it's a very important piece of information, suburban settlements, a village and a city that you haven't clearly disintegrated. There were many, many problems in the 2011 census.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70570	Thank you, you've wasted your time. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 36th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70571	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the upcoming list will show a lot. The village is inhabited by a people who are on average 62 years old. There are fewer than 100 inhabitants in thousands and two hundred inhabited areas. On the basis of that list, we will have to keep an eye on not only how many people live in Serbia, but how they are deployed. No end of Serbia should be abandoned and in the future, Mr Minister, in agricultural policy we must also take care of demographics, although it is not entirely our obligation, but we will also have to take care of how. I think the time will come for us to pay in a certain way for people to live in the country, not just for agriculture, not just for demographics, but for environmental protection, for rural tourism, for taking care of forests. It cannot be about the environment and forests, about rural tourism being cared for by someone who doesn't live in the country. So, this population, and Serbia, we admit, is losing its population. In the past 100 years, Serbs have not had a population growth, while, say, our neighbours, from Romania, Bulgaria, 28%, 35%, Greeks 40%, the Turkish population increased by 700%, Albanian by 1,000%, the only Serb population standing where it stood in 1918 or 1920. And on the basis of the list, we're going to have to correct, not just agricultural policy and a lot of it. What I recommend is so-called. individuals, that we treat small agricultural holdings as certain units that we will give a certain amount of money without any excessive demands, paperwork, etc., given their desire to stay in the country, bearing in mind that as long as they live in the village, no matter what age the existing wishes of the city's population will come to visit, and therefore there will be a desire to renew that population. Perhaps one of the city's residents who visits wishes to develop some processing business in these rural areas. As for Milo Djukanovic, I told him everything. So there's no problem with Serbs, everything that happens to him in the next period is not his fault, it's not Russia's fault, it's not Serbia's fault, he's guilty, he deserves it by his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70572	The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70573	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the 2021 census will set out the total number of residents, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia and their schedule for lower spatial units and administrative districts. Reliable data will be provided on the vital, ethnic, economic and educational, other characteristics of the population, but will also be used to project the future movement and look at the demographic potential of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to highlight the importance of the measures taken in the context of the policy of opportunity, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic. It was after the first year of what we did in 2019 that Serbia first made a positive score, with 614 more. It's something that's very important for our country, that's great news. We have a plan for Serbia in 2025. One of the segments of that plan is certainly defined in the first about demographics. Therefore, it is of particular importance that there are more of us, to speed up our demographic characteristics, to strengthen Serbia, to encourage people to have as many children as possible. We also have a 650m competition call for all local self-governments in the area of the Republic of Serbia within the framework of our policy policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70574	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70575	Thank you. The census of the population, households and apartments in 2021 is one serious question, and I would like to repeat something here from an explanation. It says -- the census is the most complex statistical issue. Maybe it's a complex question beyond statistics. So, from what we're doing here, we have certain obligations, but the most important thing is what we get and what we get observed, and I think there are two basic issues, a demographic question, that is, an increase in newborn children and a reduction in emigration from Serbia. In order for this to happen, it seems to me that these two things have to be done maximum. This Serbia is doing this, it should strengthen it, and that is to say, in addition to the state measures taken in terms of new birth and not moving out of Serbia, it is economic development, an increase in citizens' standards for these people to remain in these areas, and cumulatively looking at, economic development and increasing standards, living with measures stimulating the state's proposed new birth. When we add that up, it has to be the measures that will result in an increase in these newborn, little children who will be carrying out all the activities in this country tomorrow. The list will give us accurate data and they need to give a projection of future moves. I'll say something briefly about agriculture and small households. Since I come from that part where mostly these smaller agricultural households are, simply from the census we'll get a cut and such households. Such solutions and projections need to be found to survive in these areas, to live with dignity, to live with their work, and therefore this list is very important. One solution is that in my municipality there are good and strong households that also maintain these smaller households because these smaller households can be attached to them in terms of these jobs being carried out under rural conditions. As part of that, yesterday Minister Nedimovic gave one answer here, I think if he had become a little vague there on the ground, I would have asked him to repeat it. I don't think it's complicated or difficult to answer, and it's about getting a tractor. For example, I have a young agricultural producer who says – I would like to buy a 80 kilowatt tractor, can a certain vomit be obtained for such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70576	A Member of the 36th Amendment was sent by Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70577	We're at the end of a debate on amendments. We believe that a six-month period is enough to educate the list committees, and we are against that, when you adopt each other, you give yourself another 10 months for the sublegal act. You knew that the census was to be completed in 2021, whatever the future Government of the Republic Statistics Bureau should immediately begin to do the job. As soon as the law comes into force, it's next week, because it's not meant to be so. You have to do certain educations with them and see if they're capable of doing it, especially because you've applied this system of interviews, how you've repeatedly emphasized it here with the citizens, and the laptops that they're going to wear in the households. We're afraid that it can all be very awkward and that these people have to show through some trial survey work, give them a chance whether they're capable or not. This way, if you don't form a list committee in ten months, then you'll see what and how, there's nothing. Start on time to do that job and drop it in a form that you will do anything that is not required of you by the UN International Conventions. Don't use the population list, collect some quasi data, because if you wanted to see the right picture, first of all, the situation in the family, why didn't you put in a child's supplement that should be acquired by the category and get it every child at birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70578	Thank you. The word is Branimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70579	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, will point to one fact, which is that Serbia without the Albanian population at KIM, had a population of 7,040,272 in 1.01.2017. So for the first time since 1966, population numbers are about seven million. In this negative fact, President Vukic repeatedly suggested that Serbia would thus have neither economic potential nor demographic potential nor political potential. Population policy is a policy run by a country aimed at harmonising demographics, numbers, structures and population movements. To remind only what types of population policy are - expansional or innovative, which aims to increase population, restrictive, anti-natal, which has a reduction in population, redistributive or disposal, means favourable population and eugenic, the development of a particular group of people is encouraged. That's why we, the esteemed MPs, have, if you remember, passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financial support of the family with children. By its provisions, this law clearly and unequivocally confirms that by the incentive measures of an increased parental supplement, the country’s largest problem is to be tackled with one of the biggest national problems, which is depopulation. For the first time, after a hundred years, the state is engaged in supporting the birth and improving Serbia's demographic image, with the goal of reaching a rate of 1.85 children per woman within 10 to 15 years, i.e. a 10% increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70580	I thank you, you've wasted your time with the MPs' group. Ana Čaapić has time as an authorised promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70581	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we are at the very end of the debate on the draft legislation on censuses, households and apartments for 2021. First of all, every census is accompanied by appropriate legal regulations. Given that the Republic of Serbia is one of the 193 UN member states, we have made a commitment from Resolution 10 of 2015 to implement at least one census between 2015 and 2024. We've, of course, defined ourselves for 2021. The paper of the law is a way of collecting data. Given that the fourth industrial revolution is under way, it is quite logical that the law prescribes that data is entered directly into portable computers, i.e. laptops. The benefits of such inputs are multiple. First, we will not have to print all those questionnaires, as the practice was in previous census years, because in Serbia intensively implement digitisation measures and precisely because of the digitisation measure, we have managed to save as much as 517 tonnes of paper from 2017 and save 10,500 trees, which is consistent with environmental protection measures. The second benefit is savings in time. So, you skip the data input phase into the database. That way we'll actually get to the final results of the list much faster. In the previous census years, in 2001 and 2002 respectively, there were 13 months waiting for final results in 2011. The law stipulates that the first final results will be completed after six months of the census. The president of the Republic, members of the government and how precise data and a demographic picture of Serbia are important. No one before the SNS was involved in a demographic image or in birth, ageing, or eviction. What is proof that we are responsible and serious about the demographic image of Serbia is exactly the measures of population policy, just investing in young people. I'll give you one piece of information. In 2012, 26 billion dinars were allocated for population policy measures, and in 2020, as many as 68 billion dinars, two and a half times higher. Also, we have defined over 700m euros for investment in young people and over 200m euros for out-of-body fertilisation. That's already produced results. In 2019, we had as many as 614 babies as in 2018. Of course we are not satisfied, but we continue to work intensively and implement measures of population policy to improve the demographic picture in Serbia. We will never allow the situation of 2001 to be repeated and the 2011 situation, when the previous government had no financial resources to implement the census. It'll never happen again. Due to the lack of financial resources, it was only a year late in 2001 with the census, and six months in 2011. Now you're offering us some kind of salary for 1,000-euro doctors. Dragan Gilas says that if he and when he comes to power, and that will never be, doctors will have a salary of 1000 euros. This Dragan Gilas forgets that doctors in his day received less wages than nurses do now. Imagine, he says he'll pay for doctors if they hitchhike the construction of the Moravia Corridor. Well, I guess public sector employees' salaries are paid out of regular budget revenues, and loans are used for investment and for the realisation of infrastructure projects, because from infrastructure projects we can and the next generations will be able to repay those loans. Of course, it doesn't matter to them. Those 1,000-euro salaries remind me of those 1,000-euro Dinkic free shares. Whenever elections get close, they offer citizens 1,000 euros, and when elections pass to the citizens nothing, and millions in their pockets. Of course, both Gilas and all those in the Alliance for Serbia are past, and SNS and young people are Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-31-0.u70582	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, February 3, 2020, starting at 11.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 20 of the sitting agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction in principle. I conclude the vote: for a vote – 132 MPs, against – two, abstention – one, did not vote – two MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Ljiljana Mihajlovic's amendments to article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to Article 7. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments by Aleksandra Belačić to Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendments to article 10 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Marine Ristic on Article 12. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 13. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the Dubravko Bojic vote on Article 15. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verica Radete amendment to Article 17. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 18. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 19 of the Nemanje Sarovic vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 20. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments of Sreta Periæ to article 21. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Ljiljana Mihajlovic's amendments to article 22 to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to Article 23. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments by Aleksandra Belačić to Article 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 25 to vote I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Tomislav Ljubenovic to Article 26. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 27 to vote I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the Marine Ristic amendment to Article 28. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 29. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. One was restrained. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 30. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 31. I conclude the vote: one vote is abstentioned. I am voting on Rose Nikolic's amendment to Article 32. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to article 33. I'm closing the vote: one is restrained. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 34. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 35 of the Ignorance of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to Article 36. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Sreta Peric to Article 37. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 38 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendment to article 39 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Nikola Savic's article 40 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 41 on the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 42. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 43. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Ruzica Nikolic to Article 44. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to article 45. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 46. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to the Ignorant Sarovic on Article 47. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to Article 48. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to article 49. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Peter Jojic's amendments to article 50 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 51. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Sreto Peric to article 52. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on article 53. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of the People's MP, Ms. Radeta, on Article 54. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135 MPs, against – three, did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. I am putting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – two, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Zoran Despotovic to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote amendments submitted in the same text by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic, to Article 12. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete to Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to article 19. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 33. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of the People's MP, Ms. Radeta, on Article 34. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – three, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. I put the draft law on hydrographic activity to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – two, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put to the vote the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Filip Stojanovic to Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 12. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 15. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on Article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Milorad Mircic to Article 20. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to Article 23. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the draft law on hydrographic activity in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – three, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on hydrographic activity. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137, v – two, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome His Excellency, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Angola, Mr Fernand to Pieddad Dias soul Santush, with members of the National Assembly delegation of the Republic of Angola, who are following part of today's session from the grand hall gallery and are on official visit to the Republic of Serbia. Please welcome our distinguished guests. Thank you. We wish you a successful and pleasant stay in the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete on Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to the vote with the correction of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 6. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Zoran Despotovic to Article 13. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to Article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on article 19. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Milorad Mircic to Article 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to the 26th People's MP vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Tomislav Ljubenović to article 27. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Filip Stojanovic to article 33. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – three, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – two, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 3. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I would like to vote on the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete on Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction of MP Zoran Despotovic on Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to Article 7. I'm closing the vote. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on Article 11. I'm closing the vote. I put to the vote the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete to Article 12. I'm closing the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in general. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 135, against – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, v – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete on Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Milorad Mircic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law on special procedures for the implementation of the project in order to build and reconstruct line infrastructure objects of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Aleksandra Belačić to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 2. Finalizing vote: for -one. I would like to put the amendments of MP Miljan Damjanovic on Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Zoran Despotovic to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic on Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Peter Jojic's amendment to article 6 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Tomislav Ljubenović to article 7. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Milorad Mircic to Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic to Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic to Article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to Article 12. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta to Article 13. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Marin Ristic to Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 15. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Filip Stojanovic on Article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on Article 17. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Aleksandra Belačić to Article 18. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to article 19. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Miljan Damjanovic to article 20. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Zoran Despotovic to article 21. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 22. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Peter Jojic's amendments to article 23 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Tomislav Ljubenović to article 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic as a member of 25. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic to Article 26. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put Ruzica Nikolic's amendments to article 27. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to Article 28. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to Article 29. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete to Article 30. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Marin Ristic to Article 31. Finalising vote: for – one. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 32. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Filip Stojanovic to article 33. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on Article 34. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic on Article 35. I'm closing the vote. I am putting the amendments to MP Miljan Damjanovic's vote on Article 36. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments of MP Zoran Despotovic to Article 37. I'm closing the vote. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 38. I'm closing the vote. I am putting Peter Jojic's amendment to article 39 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Milorad Mircic to article 40. I'm closing the vote. I am voting on amendments by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to Article 41. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 42. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments of MP Sreta Peric to article 43. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments of the People's MP, Ms. Radeta, on Article 44. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Nikola Savic to Article 45. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments of the People's MP, Ms. Radeta, on Article 46. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to the MP Nemanje Sarovic's vote on Article 47. I'm closing the vote. I put to vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 48. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Milorad Mircic to Article 49. I'm closing the vote. I put to vote the amendments of the People's MP, Verica Radete, on Article 50. I'm closing the vote. I put to the vote the draft law on special procedures for the implementation of the project of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 versus – two, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on special procedures to implement the project of construction and reconstruction of line infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the draft law on the register of spatial units and the address register, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 versus – one, abstention – one. I would like to vote on the amendments of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete on Article 1. I conclude the vote I put to the vote by the amendment to Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 5. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Ljiljana Mihajlović. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 8. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 8. I'm closing the vote. I put Tomislav Ljubenović's amendments to article 8. I'm closing the vote. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 9. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to the Marine Ristic vote on Article 10. I'm closing the vote. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 11. I'm closing the vote. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to the title above Article 12. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 12. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to article 14. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete amendment to Article 14. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic on Article 15. I'm closing the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 19 of the Nemanje Sarovic vote. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 20. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments of Sreta Periæ to article 21. I'm closing the vote. I put the Verica Radete amendment to article 22 to vote. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 22. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 23. I'm closing the vote. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 25 to vote I'm closing the vote. I am putting Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendment to article 27 to vote. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 31 to vote. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 32. I am putting Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 36 to vote. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 39. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Register of Space Units and the Address Register, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, v - two, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Conversion of the right of use to property on building land with compensation, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, v – two, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 of the Ignorance of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 4. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to article 4. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 5. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments to article 6 of the Ignorance of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 7. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 8. I'm closing the vote. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 9. I'm closing the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on building land with compensation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to take away the properties of good in the general use of part of the railway infrastructure (number 011-2996/19), in general. Finalising vote: for – 132, against – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to take away the properties of good in the general use of part of the railway infrastructure (number 011-2995/19), in general. Finalising vote: for – 135, against – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – one, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, v – two, abstention – one. I find that we have passed the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic to Article 5 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for -132, v - two. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act. I put the draft law on censuses, households and apartments in 2021, in principle. Finalising vote: 135 against – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 2. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 2. I'm closing the vote. I would like to put the amendments to article 2. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote. I am putting the amendments to the 6th vote, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote. I put amendments to the title above article 14 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I put the amendments to the title above article 15, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote. I am putting amendments to the title above article 16, with an amendment, submitted by Parliamentarian Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs and one abstention. I put the amendments to the title above Articles 19 and 19, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the title above the member and member of the 21st, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I put the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I put the amendments to article 28 to the vote, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I am putting the amendments to article 35, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I put the amendments to Article 36 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: for - four MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 36, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the draft law on censuses, households and apartments in 2021, in general. I conclude the vote: for -134 MPs, with abstentions - three MPs. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (the Competitiveness Agriculture Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for -134 MPs, abstentioned - two MPs, against - no one. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing for the project to improve the land administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for -134 MPs, abstentioned - two MPs, against - no one. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the credit agreement between the Republic of Serbia (as credit user) and T.C. Ziraat Bankasi A.S. and Denizbank A.S., in general. I conclude the vote: for -132 MPs, abstentioned - two MPs, against - no one. I understand we've passed the bill. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Serb train procurement) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 135 MPs, abstentioned - two MPs, against - no one. I understand we've passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the LD 2009 Framework Agreement (2019) between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on a project loan for the construction of a new University Children's Clinic, Tirshova 2 in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for - 135 MPs, with abstentions - there is no, against - no one, has voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
