ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u780	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are seven very important agreements in front of you today. The total value of these agreements is almost 700m euros. These agreements are aimed at supporting our country when it comes to fighting Kovida-19, getting medical equipment, building testing labs, and also improving so-called. Green economy, therefore, is working to build a water and sewerage network in 60 local self-government in our country and, finally, agreements that are related to raising energy efficiency. I'll go through all these agreements in a short time. So, the first is the loan agreement for the "Emergency Response of the Republic of Serbia to Kovid-19", an agreement signed between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The value of this agreement is 92m euros. Through this agreement, we will get additional medical equipment, work on training our medical workers. We will use this money to build regional coviding laboratories at the Vojvodina Clinical Center in Novi Sad and the Kravujevac Clinical Centre. It's money that will certainly strengthen our capacities in the fight against the coronary virus. The second is the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector. Re-supporting the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to alleviate the Kovid-19 pandemic. And this is about supporting our health care sector to cover the increased costs of getting drugs, to get medical equipment. The value of this agreement is about 200m euros and that money will be available to us immediately after ratification in the Assembly. So we can use that money by the end of this year and over the next year, and we're about to use it to get more and more drugs and the necessary medical equipment. Next on the list is the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on the programme loan, which is related to energy efficiency. As you know, we have an obligation to one percent of the space managed by the Republic of Serbia, whether it cools or heats up, so, annually, to improve energy efficiency in that space, the value of this agreement is 44.5m euros and will include improving energy efficiency in 28 buildings. The next loan agreement with the Council of Europe Development Bank is related to a water supply and waste water treatment plant. This is a very, very important agreement. So in 60 municipalities, we're going to use this money to improve both the sewer and the water network, to build wastewater treatment plants. This agreement fully fits into the project "Serbia 2025". As of next year, let me remind you, we're going to start to build a shortage of sewerage and waternets and wastewater treatment plants in over 70 local self-governments. With this agreement, we will further expand the scope of these works and that is one of the key things that we have promised to do in "Serbia 2025" and, you will see, we will discuss this when the budget for next year is a topic. So, already in the 2021 budget, you have over three billion euros provided that in the next five years for 70 local self-government we complete the necessary and missing water and sewerage network. The value of this programme, this agreement is 300m euros. Next on the agenda is the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia for the project "Rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia – phase V", the previous four stages have already been completed. This agreement is worth 30m euros. In this way and through this agreement are already modernised and rehabilitated heating systems in 22 companies for the production and distribution of heat throughout the country. So a very important agreement that needs to contribute again to energy efficiency, savings and, of course, a better heating system in our country. You are also facing today the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia for the project "Energy efficiency in public-purpose facilities – phase II". And this agreement means that we will resuscitate between 50 and 60 public purpose facilities in the sector of education, health care, social protection and sports in units of local self-government throughout our country. The value of this agreement is 20m euros. Finally, before you the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign savings from citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. Here we only propose to increase efficiency, to reduce the number of commission members from the existing 11 to just five. So, honourable MPs, seven very important agreements. If you vote for these agreements, we will have nearly 700m euros at our disposal to fight Kovida-19 even better and more effectively, to get more drugs, more necessary medical equipment, to build a regional database of laboratories, to improve our health system, on the one hand. On the other hand, you have agreements that are related to raising energy efficiency and so on. Green Deal or green economy, therefore, work on sewers, waternets across Serbia, construction of wastewater treatment plants. So, these agreements will further push our GDP growth next year, by ratifying them here in the Assembly, they become possible for realisation immediately and we can expect their first effects already next year. Thank you very much. Of course, I remain at my disposal for any question you may have during today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u781	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) It is now up to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, as you know, to a proportional order in the number of members of the parliamentary groups. The word is Mr. Dragan Markovic Palm.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u782	I thank you, only the Single Serbia MP club is not the smallest parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u783	I'm sorry, it's not the smallest one, it's not the answer. So, who's currently registered, you know how it works, who's currently on screen here in front of me, that's how it works. However, not everyone is applying and there is a certain calculator here. At the moment I gave my word, Djordje Milicevic, Djordje Dabic, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group and you were reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u784	All right, don't forget that our coalition of the SPS and the JS is the second in the number of MPs in parliament after the SNS coalition. We have 32 MPs. I want to commend this set of laws. I've been in Parliament for a long time and in that old building and in this new one, and it's never happened to have this number of laws proposed and these laws apply to local self-government. I want to start by saying, for the sake of the public, not to praise this law because Jagodina will get money for the wastewater treatment system, we have it. I also don't praise the law because we're going to change the main water network where old asbestos pipes are in all the cities, and we did it two years ago, where we funded ourselves with five million euros. But that's good for other cities, for local self-government, considering that more and more kidney patients have, and the main problem is drinking water, when it comes to kidney patients, and that drinking water and that problem will be solved. When it comes to the bastard, I also want to commend this bill, or the means that will be separated, because the health of every man and the health of the nation has no price. I'd like to say at first and ask the doctors, Dr. Conn, for his honor, whenever I turn on a channel, Dr. Conn. Hey, guys, I'm starting to get scared of him, too. And none of those experts had an exact prognosis. They told us – when summer comes, because of the high temperature, the covid will disappear, so let's do a little more, so here's the second, then the third wave. It seems that we no longer share the crown in waves, so the crown is constantly present in our society, but not only in Serbia, but in the whole world. But when it comes to crowns all over the world, that's where we can boast because we've had the best prevention and that based on the number of inhabitants we have the least dead. Please make this my proposal when it comes to doctors, as little as possible. Let's let the doctors go, those who treat the citizens in hospitals, they know best. Every honor to experts with good experience and good analysts and good diagnosis can show for any patient, but ladies and gentlemen, the crown has begun to enter every fifth family on average and when it enters the family. We, for example. Right now in Jagodina, what I know about eight families, all members of those families have a crown. When one has a temperature, in five, six, seven and eight days other family members get the crown. And to make it an integral part of something we have to wear, without psychological shock, media, I won't say it's spin, it's not spin, but I won't listen to doctors last night on RTS. And then I roll, roll, roll some channels and find something in French, and I have no idea, I know ten words in French, that's what I was watching. I, who follow, feel free to say to myself, all the media and not to follow politics, but it's the sphere of my interest I know about myself. Let me tell you, we used to read only the sports side, the horoscope and the course list. I don't even read the horoscope anymore, because when I opened the television, the journalists now started making horoscopes, and that's how it's done in the newsrooms. Today, for example. George came to make a horoscope to inform the citizens and he wrote what happened to him yesterday, to him, to his then girlfriend, now he's married, and then he was young, although you're not very young. And I haven't read the horoscope since. The course list, thank God, is no longer of interest to me because the dinar is stable, which is most important for Serbia, because for the first time, I don't know, after how many years we have the stability of the dinars. And all that when we add up and I hear that someone is criticizing, there's no room for criticism because that stability of the dinar brings foreign investors to Serbia that open factories and businesses. And it's never been more transparent than what an object costs. Here I was watching last night at 10:00, the president visited a clinic in Zemun, a new clinic built in four months. It looks beautiful on TV, and as it will look for patients, I'm sure it will be one of the best clinics in Europe. We have good experts, but let us pray to God that this hospital is not full. What's important is that we have a place to put sick people from infectious diseases. This government and this state take care of every man, every village, every municipality in Serbia. And it's never been more transparent. If the finance minister said -- that's how much money costs this, that's what we've given, that's how much we'll prepare for the next time period, that's how much deficit, that's how much surplus, it's never been before. Even on the issues of MPs in parliament, when they ask how much this or it never gets a notice from the one they asked, when it's the last Thursday of the month, when the questions are for the government. What we have to do is make sure that as a man from the inside, I ask the government and the minister to have more opportunities and space in the budget to stimulate the employees of kindergarten. They're everyone's and nobody's, the educators. They belong to the Ministry of Education, they're being treated like school, or they belong to the Minister of Education, and I'm not going to say they're being discriminated, but they're having a bit of a stimulant, too, because they have the hardest job. It's the hardest job, working with kids in kindergarten. I have five grandchildren in my house. They're adults, and they don't go to kindergarten, but we know what it looks like with little kids, it's very hard. What's worse, the crown began to enter the kindergarten. It wasn't the children who brought her to kindergarten. It was the employees who worked in kindergarten. Let's see these measures and preventions of how we're going to deal with kindergartens, that crisis headquarters is tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, that instructions on how to behave local self-government when it comes to kindergartens. That we don't make our own decisions because kids are the most important thing to us, but that's where another problem is, if children don't go to kindergarten, then parents don't have anyone to leave their children to look after their children, so they can't go to work. The crisis staff must have ideas and a plan to solve this problem without anyone getting hurt by it. Kovid-19 and Kon begins with the same letter, Kon and kovid, ladies and gentlemen I said in 2009, you can find it on social networks, every day it was about the vaccine, the pharmaceutical mafia and so on, and this is now much more serious than that, but I said then – now we have a bird flu, then, in a few years there will come horse flu and so on and simply the world has to live with it. We don't know this flu by whom he was named Kovid-19? Where's it from? Who brought it? Is it something that was done in some lab or natural way but the whole world has a problem when it comes to the crown and Kovid-19. Serbia is fighting well and no one can blame when the president of the state speaks and talks about it, because the president of the state is the most trusted and trusted, of course, by the parliament we are discussing, we are passing laws. I'd like to ask the doctors to step back a little bit from those media houses, so they can psychologically leave us alone. The problem is, people get depressed. Gentlemen, you all know that. One of you will say yes, someone -- no, but I won't watch them hold my conference for two hours anymore and tell me what happened this week. This week or this day has been infected so much, tested so much, died so much, in the world so much and over. And that's where the conference ends. It is the state that will make decisions on the advice of the profession what to do in the next period of time. Unique Serbia will vote in favour of this bill, this set of laws, because we have never had such a set of laws in parliament, and that it concerns the development of local self-government, at a time when the budget is not filled with the dynamics it has been filling before. At a time when you have an excellent side bigger than the inflow because no one planned in 2019 that we would have a problem with the covid and that we would need a lot of money to protect every man in Serbia. To tell you, and I said it yesterday, and today I'm going to say that some countries charge for testing every man and that testing when people are safe, sick of bastards, and that's free of charge. That's what every one of us needs to talk about. I know three countries where testing and review are paid, but I don't want to say now, because I also know a few ministers from these countries that it's not now a blow to those countries, because it's not even those people's faults that it happened to them, but when we compare ourselves as Serbia, a small country, we're better than them in every sense, in both economic and health and when it comes to 2020 and with a realisation plan in 2021. I also thank the Unique Serbia with its coalition partners, the SPS, will support the law. Let me add that, and not to praise Moses now and not to express myself like that, but I must also commend the president of the assembly who has been sitting in parliament for a long time on my surprise, closely monitors every MP's discussion. Of course, they weren't bad either before, but knowing the edge of Dacic, I'm really pleasantly surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u785	I have to follow what you say. As you have praised Djordjo Milicevic, he must not report to his wife today. I thank Mr. Markovic. Meanwhile, MP Branimir Jovanovic reported on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, which is smaller than the Unity of Serbia, but for tactical reasons, he applied after Dragan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u786	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about agreements that are on the agenda today, they are primarily aimed at improving the health system, building and restoring water infrastructure and improving energy efficiency. I will first talk about two agreements on the draft legislation on the confirmation of the agreement on the agenda. One is between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and concerns the implementation of the project "Emergency Response to Kovid-19" and the second agreement is the agreement of the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and refers to the mitigation of the consequences of the pandemic Kovid, and in this context I must note that we in this House two weeks ago have adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of People against Infectious Diseases and in this way, and in addition to these adopted agreements, we will contribute to the easier fight and easier to find better solutions in the fight with Kovid-19. At that time, we recognized the responsibilities, i.e. we specified the obligations and legal persons and entrepreneurs and health institutions, but we also specified the rights of citizens who had to be infected with the coronary virus. Now, by adopting these agreements that we mentioned earlier, we're going to expand the scope for action, we're going to train and we're going to equip healthcare institutions to work better under these extraordinary circumstances. The project titled ‘Emergency Response to Kovid-19’ will be implemented with the assistance of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Institute of Public Health. The deal will provide 92m euros in money. This money will be focused on strengthening the disease control system, improving reference laboratories, strengthening medical care facilities, training of medical professionals, renovating specialised units in certain health institutions, equipping health institutions to provide critical medical services. I said just nine months ago, we've been fighting and trying to find an adequate solution to effectively prevent the spread of Kovida-19. It's a good thing the Serbian government budgeted nine billion dinars to build two hoofs of hospitals. One is built near Belgrade. It is especially important that the other is built in the interior, in Krusevec and it will be at the service not only to the citizens of Kruševec, but also to the citizens of the surrounding cities. Unfortunately, in the last seven days, the situation, as regards the spread of Kovida-19 in Serbia, has been more unfavourable than it has been before. There is an increase in the number of newly infected not only in large cities. It's now increasing in smaller cities. That's why I think these two hospitals, which are being built, will have a full purpose. Our health system has been functioning under some emergency circumstances, I can say, for nine months now, but it's still working well. No patient has left without being taken care of, no patient has been returned home and that is a good, good sign that we have the capacity to meet the needs of all Serbian citizens. Now we're more experienced than at the beginning of the pandemic. We've removed any failures and better organized work by doctors and nurses, and based on that experience, I'm sure they've organized themselves better, and now we don't have any gaps that have been in some situations, which is that there's been an infection in the medical institutions themselves. There are no such failures now, because such a thing could mean the collapse of the entire health system. I will only list some examples in much more developed countries, such as Spain and Italy, where health systems have kneeled before the pandemic rush. It is important for us to act responsibly and we should always appeal to the citizens of Serbia that what is up to them to do, to respect the measures, to respect the recommendations and thus help doctors, first of all, that they can take a breath, as much as possible and continue to do quality work, as they have done so far. We need to understand that we need to correct life habits and follow the recommendations of the expert team. The second agreement I mentioned was with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It will provide 200m euros for the financing of health infrastructure and the purchase of medical equipment in healthcare institutions throughout Serbia. There are other agreements on the agenda. I'll name two. They refer to energy efficiency. Funds will be provided for the implementation of projects in the field of energy efficiency in public-purpose facilities and central authorities. The first agreement is between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank KfW, and the second is between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. When we talk about energy efficiency, this topic doesn't seem to be getting enough on us. It involves reducing energy consumption, or rational energy consumption. Official data suggests that in Serbia over 90% of household facilities and residential buildings have not been built in accordance with energy efficiency standards and there are many reasons for this. Some of the reasons were that due to the progress of the technique, construction entrepreneurs easily came up with cheap thermal insulation. Another reason is that in some earlier times entrepreneurs wanted to save money, so they built in cheaper isolation, and on the other hand there were no rules that would punish such irresponsible behavior. The result is obvious. We're wasting a lot of expensive energy. I'll give you an example. When comparing Serbia and Sweden, the average apartment building in Serbia spends four times as much energy as the average residential building in Sweden, and we should consider that winters are longer and colder in Sweden. It's just another indicator of how irrational we're still wasting our energy. The world's most developed countries promote and apply in practice the concept of the energy efficiency model, but on the other hand, it is noticeable that somehow timid, but still some steps this topic comes to us on the agenda and is increasingly represented. I'm going to set an example of construction of the so-called so-called construction. Smart buildings. These are buildings built with the help of materials and systems that contribute to minimum energy consumption. Smart building means everything's automated. These facilities take into account the smallest details and lead to significant savings not only in residential buildings, but are much greater savings for industrial and commercial complexes. I purposely cited these examples to point out concepts of energy efficiency that are yet to come full application in the Republic of Serbia. In this context, it is necessary to work to raise awareness of energy efficiency and energy management. When we talk about concrete projects and funding from these funds under these agreements, they will refer to works such as insulation of building envelopes, replacing old carpentry, replacing lighting, replacing or repairing the heating system. It is necessary, of course, to invest large funds because, in combination with the age of buildings and outdated construction methods, these shortcomings must be eliminated. In particular, this project covers the reconstruction of about 50 to 60 facilities, whether they are health institutions, schools, sports facilities and social protection buildings. At the end of the exhibition, I will say something about the agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which concerns water supply, construction of the facility and treatment of waste water. The environment ministry will be responsible for monitoring and implementing this project. The programme has two objectives, the first to improve the water supply system of about 60 municipalities in Serbia. It involves protecting water quality and reducing water loss, but reducing water loss in that context of water resource distribution due to climate change and pollution. It is necessary to restore waternets and partially renovate municipal water systems while improving the quality of drinking water. The second objective is to clean up waste water, i.e. building a wastewater treatment plant. This will mean building a facility in three cities, it's about Nis, Cačak and Kragujevac, at least it's planned. This money will fund the rehabilitation and expansion of the sewerage network. I must point out that such projects, or similar projects, have already been done in certain municipalities and cities of Serbia. There is a successful application and has proved to be a good move in practice. The benefits of this project specifically will have about two million citizens. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed changes and additions to the agreement law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u787	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u788	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Minister and Mr Markovic said in the opening statement that the loans amounted to 700m euros, and the amount itself speaks enough and the objectives that are to be achieved through the realisation of these loans talk about the very importance and importance. I want to start before I start the story of loans and of each loan individually to say that what is fundamentally important in Serbia today is that every one of us who has taken on a certain responsibility and obligation begins with the President of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ministers, no matter how difficult the circumstances are and no matter how difficult the challenges we face, is doing his job in the best possible way. Serbia's president visited the construction of a very important infirmary yesterday, of course, I expect it will come under criticism from that part of the opposition there. Although, let them, let them live in error, simply, you know, it's incomprehensible and I don't understand, what it is that they expected during the Kovida period the president to be in isolation, that the government closes its building and does online or that we do online, but there would probably be criticism. So it is very important that in these difficult circumstances each of us is doing a job for which we have taken responsibility and in the best interests of the citizens. The other thing, Mr. Minister, your presence in parliament for the second or third weeks, is that, first of all, we had amendments and additions to the Budget Law, so loans, and before that another set of legislative proposals, is a confirmation that this government, when it comes to fiscal policy, has one responsible and serious approach and runs politics, we all have to wear masks now, because we passed such a law and we respect the law, of course, but we run a policy without a mask. So, and when it's hard to always open up to citizens with concrete facts, indicators and when it's hard not always to leave problems aside, but to go to meet problems and solve them. It's true, we're talking about loans today. The loan is borrowing, but we don't owe this to Serbia, we don't really leave the obligation for generations to come, but we invest in something concrete, something that everyone will benefit from. This takes care of citizens' interests, takes care of the public interest, but what is fundamentally important is to ensure that the hard-earned fiscal achievements that have occurred. That is exactly what we have talked about many times now through the government's reform course, whose foundations were laid in 2014. It is about loans designed by the Republic of Serbia's budget, the Public Debt Act, loans that do not disrupt budgetary frameworks, or a projected level of public debt that speaks again about the responsible, I repeat, and a serious approach when it comes to fiscal policy. It is about loans that, the first two loans, which will first contribute to one of the better quality, will help us to come up with a better answer as a society, but also a health profession to come up with a better response in the fight against Kovid-19, and the other part of the loans has, I would say, a strategic and long-term goal, which is of great importance and importance. The second part of the loan concerns concrete investment in infrastructure projects. In particular, when we talk about these loans, as has already been said, water supply projects, water treatment and energy efficiency. Of course, question number one is definitely fighting Kovid at this point. The situation in Serbia is difficult, but the situation in Serbia is not difficult because of Alexander Vukic, either because of the government of the Republic of Serbia or because of those of us sitting here today and talking about these extremely important loans, the situation is difficult all over the world because the whole world, of course, and Serbia and Europe are facing the biggest health challenge that has not been seen so far and whose end unfortunately is still unsupervised. We are actually talking about Serbia's future here and we are talking about how and in what way and what it is that we can do to save every life in Serbia, every citizen's life in Serbia. No one who is aware of the situation in which Serbia is present today can dispute the responsible and serious approach of state leadership, as well as the overall health professions when it comes to combating the coronation of the virus. It reacted quickly and resolutely, and it proved to be the only way to deal with this problem. Many resented that Serbia had somewhat more rigid measures compared to other countries in Europe, and then other countries in Europe applied the same measures. We also had criticism from one part of the opposition that the crisis staff and we, together with the crisis staff, were applying rigid measures so that today they would propose the same measures. You can't bring the measures in advance and you can't predict the situation in advance. All the measures that have been taken so far have been brought with agreement and in agreement with the profession. Under these circumstances, it is difficult for the citizens of Serbia. I understand fear. Fear is a natural phenomenon. But it is very important that the citizens of Serbia understand that this really is a fight for the future and is a struggle for every citizen of Serbia's life. It is impossible under these circumstances, and in a situation like this, faced with such a health challenge, to have the complete satisfaction of all. But it's an important outcome. Unfortunately, we should always remember those who are behind us, and even today, lost their lives precisely because of the crown of the virus, but we should always be proud to point out how much life is saved. And that's what we should be proud of. The major force is precisely the effects of the measures brought by the crisis headquarters along with the state leadership gave additional security and stability to Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, we have repeatedly referred to appeals, praying that the Covid 19 situation should not be politicised, that we should try not to bring it down to political frameworks. Because it would be good if we could quarantine Kovid 19 at this point. There will be room and time to compete politically with both the opposition and to hear their opinion, their suggestions, their suggestions. But I really don't know, and I haven't heard in any country in the world, in Europe, any political party that represents an opposition to today, at the moment that it faces the biggest health challenge, competes with its president or with its government, because everyone is aware that they have only one task and that everyone together has only one goal. I will not pay too much attention to this call part of the opposition, but I must say that today, unfortunately, there are in Serbia those who want to profit politically on this issue. Who are those who want to profit politically? It's the same ones who didn't have the courage to participate in the elections, which have been defined for that desperate and losing move, because it was the only way out of their hopeless political situation in which they were found, which is a boycott. These are the same ones who are more important today to get to the Public Service, to talk to the Public Service management, because, for God's sake, they have something very important to say, they are not present enough in the media, so they have something very important to say, and they are willing to tell the press, not realizing how important it is at the moment, how important information is at this point, and instead of having respect for journalists who are responsible and committed to doing their job, they today share journalists with similar and unsuitable and feel that they are professional and qualified enough to say who is a journalist and who is not a journalist. These are the same ones whose politics and ideology have the most unscrupulous attacks on people who work day and night at the Crisis Headquarters, such as Dr. Kona, the most unscrupulous attacks in Vojvodina, through the inscriptions, through messages, and only a few hundred yards from the coves of the infirmary in which, according to some data, more than 400 citizens of Novi Sad are being examined during one day. So, really embarrassing, unscrupulous, I don't know what to call them. As I said for a moment, these are the same ones who first criticized us who supported the Rigid Measures of the Crisis Staff and the State's leadership, and then criticised us for not introducing the most rigorous measures. And in the period when we introduced these measures, those same measures were violated by coming here to the National Assembly, sitting on the stairs, because entering the National Assembly was in the near and distant future for them plus the clutch, a long time ago. But, well, I said I didn't want too much to deal with them, let them live in error. I'd say, when it comes to them, I'm not qualified and professional enough, but I'll try to define it in a different way. I think it's another kind of virus, and it's a virus of political survival, panic and fear. But, I say, let them, let them live on and lead astray. What is fundamentally important at the moment when it comes to Serbia, when it comes to combating herds, is solidarity and unity. It is important that citizens, as so far, behave responsibly, seriously, rationally, to respect, above all, the recommendations of the profession. It is important that the personal level of responsibility of all of us together, as counterpart Snezana Paunović said during yesterday and the session, if we adopted the law, then let's go first from ourselves and respect this law, and we will respect it by wearing these masks because it is the least we can do, not because of us, but because of others, because that way we will protect others. So, unity is important, because Serbia has always been as strong as it is unique and it is important that at least those who have reason to understand that we have only one common struggle that we have to fight together and one common goal that we have to achieve together, and that is why it is important that the citizens of Serbia believe in the profession at this point and believe in our state of Serbia. As regards the two specific loans relating to Kovid 19, the first loan that the Republic of Serbia is taking from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the financing of the public sector is for the mitigation of the effects of the covids, which refers to additional support to the health sector to cover the drastically increased costs of purchasing the sanitary material, personal protective equipment, medical and other equipment, consumer material in order to combat the coronary virus. Also, this loan will finance the purchase of pharmaceutical and medical products, as well as the improvement of protective measures in hospitals, including protective clothing, masks, gloves and equipment. The end-users of the loan will, of course, be citizens of Serbia, and especially those infected with Kovid 19, above 65 years of age with chronic diseases requiring medical assistance, as well as equally exposed medical staff. The second loan, which the Republic of Serbia is now taking from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, should complement the financial needs for ongoing activities and investments to contribute to the greater ability of the health system for emergency response also when it comes to Kovid 19. This will be achieved by purchasing additional necessary equipment, building capacity to monitor and provide technical support including training for medical workers to provide non-pharmaceutical interventions, then for communication, support in the fight against covids. In particular, this project loan will finance activities aimed at limiting the local transmission of Kovid 19, thus easing or completely avoiding the effects of the pandemic. This loan should also ensure the strengthening of the health management information system, thereby facilitating the recording and timely exchange of information on Kovid. The project will also allow the establishment of two additional regional Kovid 19 laboratories, within the Voivodine Clinical Centre in Novi Sad and the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, which will increase the daily range of tests. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support these two proposals. A number of agreements, as I said about loans from the set of this law, concern already started energy efficiency projects. A little while ago, a colleague was talking about these projects. The first is the loan agreement between KFV and the Republic of Serbia for a project of energy efficiency in public-purpose facilities, phase 2, the second also with the same bank, the German Development Bank for the implementation of the fifth phase of the project, the rehabilitation of the district heating system in Serbia and the third programme loan from the Council of Europe's Development Bank for the energy efficiency project in central government buildings. The realisation of these projects speaks in favour of Serbia's essential commitment to rationalising, i.e. reducing energy consumption for the economy and people's lives in general, for the functioning of society. We know that energy resources on the planet, even in our country are limited, and some are non-renewable. We also know that there are renewable energy sources that can be substituted by traditional energies such as water, coal, oil and natural gas. In this sense, Serbia is involved in the realisation of many important projects concerning efficient energy consumption, and in this respect, environmental protection. As for the rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia – phase 5, the project to be financed by the loan the Republic of Serbia is also taking from the German Development Bank, the implementation of projects from that loan is currently aimed at improving the situation of existing energy plants. I am thinking about rehabilitating a remote heating system that has huge energy losses due to its weariness and is certainly one of the important jobs in the energy sector that improves both energy efficiency and environmental protection. A little while, Mr. Markovic mentioned, and given the time, I'll cut it short, so I'll just say this one more. These loans are specifically directed towards local self-government and this is also essential and important. Therefore, the heats of individual local self-governments, selected on the basis of a call from the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which was carried out in 2017 and 2018. The final participants in this project are Belgrade, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Leskovac, Negotin, Nis, Pirot. We believe that the greatest benefit from the realisation of this project will be the citizens of these environments, and there is no need to ignore the benefits of the environment that pollute a large number of small heat and household bars. At the very end, the President of Parliament is not here, so you won't be hoping for me to cut the time short, because when the President of Parliament they mostly shorten the time, if you allow another 20 seconds to take advantage of your presence. So the essence that today's message should be sent to the citizens of Serbia and the public is that Serbia is facing a health challenge because of the crown's disappearance. On the contrary, in all sectors where possible, we take a developmental path, a new investment, investments that mean new jobs. And today Serbia is a major construction site and will be through the implementation of the projects we are talking about today, because this part of the economy carries development and significantly contributes primarily to the mitigation of the consequences of Kovid 19, which has changed the image of the world in all, unfortunately, segments of life. Once again, the SPS parliamentary club in the voting day will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u789	I thank Mr. Milicevic. Well, you've taken advantage of the president's absence, and now I'm informing the honourable MPs of the following information. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I thank you and call upon our next speaker, Mr. George Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u790	I thank the chairman. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers in front of us is a set of laws that are very important to us in order to ensure the financial stability of the state in the coming period and to fund all that is necessary for these credit lines to improve the quality of life of our citizens, but of course to improve our health system. With this set of laws, then we will surely provide everything that will be needed in the coming period and in the times of crisis as this is. You can see in fact which societies are ready to respond to a crisis that they are not. In these times, you can actually see how important it was that we had financial stability in the past period, and Prime Minister Rade wrote a long time ago -- there are heroes in the struggle. So, Serbia has shown in torture that it can deal with these situations that were ahead of us and that were behind us, so in the previous period we demonstrated maturity, responsibility and in the right way responded in this first blow of the crisis and today this package of laws will only continue such a proactive policy when it comes to managing our current political situation and economic situation in the country. We singled out more than 10% of GDP and financed everything that our country needed over the past period. This is much more than some much more developed countries have singled out today in Europe and the world. For example, Romania, a friendly country that is in the neighbourhood, has singled out only 1% of the funding budget due to the crisis caused by the Coronation Virus pandemic. Serbia has shown that it can do much better and much more than the region, but at European level we have also recorded good results, the IMF and the World Bank and all relevant international factors today confirm that Serbia has the lowest GDP decline in Europe, only 1.5% and thus we have shown that we can cope with the consequences of this crisis. We've singled out 550 billion dinars to finance our health, to finance our economy, we've given money to all companies that have been compromised, affected by this crisis. A million employees in Serbia received minimum earnings for three months, two months later we added minimum earnings. In this way we have preserved liquidity, preserved jobs, managed to cope with this first blow of the crisis, and ultimately, it is seen today by the economic growth that is at its best in Europe today. As for some criticisms that came from the Fiscal Council, that we might have shared money for everyone, not selectively, we gave money to everyone and thus showed that there is no difference between us and the national people who applied. So all of the millions of employees in Serbia who have worked, who have applied for these measures, received money from the state. We thus demonstrated that we absolutely care about every man in Serbia, not only a worker who works in a sector that is affected by a crisis more or less, but we have shown that every employee is equally important to us. As for the one-time aid, we have funded and given money to our pensioners on several occasions, we will give in the next period, we will increase pensions, even during this difficult period for all mankind. So in January, we will have an increase in pensions and minimum earnings by 6% and thus show that we continue to run a policy that means development and better quality of life for our citizens. The health workers were paid for a one-time aid the other day, and they will continue to receive a profit increase because we believe it was not normal for our nurse to have 24,000 in 2012, it was not normal for a doctor to have 50,000 salaries. Today these salaries are incomparably higher and will be higher in January. We're going to raise everyone's salaries in the public sector, and we're going to try to help the private sector in every way, to deal with all these tendencies that are ahead of us. When it comes to the health sector, I want to mention in particular, yesterday I saw the president who opened our Kovid hospital a new one, here in Batajnica, opening another Kovid hospital. In this way, we invest money where it is most needed today, 90m euros are allocated at this difficult moment for our country and we provide security for every man in Serbia, to make sure he doesn't run out of hospital, that he won't lose his bed if he needs it. We are missing the most personnel today, and today the problem is that our health workers are very much affected by this crisis, and that is why I think that the irresponsible behavior that even some MPs here demonstrate, calling the crisis headquarters, is not responsible today. It is not responsible to call today not to wear masks, it is not responsible today to say that we do not need vaccines, it is not responsible today to call for practically one unserious behavior when we have 7,000 newly ill. Yesterday we had a really record number of new people. We had 37 dead. So, people, we just have to realize that this isn't any story where we can top ourselves politically, but we really need to realize that it's very difficult and that our healthcare professionals need to at least respect what they're saying. So let's not be so insecure that it's hard for us to wear a mask. If someone can wear a suiter for 20 hours a day, take care of our loved ones who are threatened, we can't say it's hard for us to wear masks today. Indeed, I urge all citizens to stick to it, because I think it's a very difficult moment and we need to be serious enough to overcome this crisis. We in the pandemic showed one extremely serious, responsible approach. I've already said, we've recorded excellent results when it comes to economic growth. We hope that in the first quarter of next year we will have a growth of 6% of GDP, and that is certainly the historic maximum in Europe which will be I hope next year, given that we will enter into the next year still disbursed, given that we have made a good basis here and this set of laws make a good basis for investing in everything that is needed next year. Up until now, we've gotten used to it in Serbia that we've reserved only sports wins, we've been best at it, and somewhere on political and economic grounds, we've always been used to losing. Today we show that it is not so, that we record victories on both political and economic grounds. We were able to achieve this today, this recognition from the IMF, which says we have the smallest economic downturn in Europe, is only due to the responsible policy we have had since 2012, when the SNS, our President Aleksandar Vucic, came to power. The reform governments in 2014 and 2017 have shown that we want to lead a new policy, a reform policy, a policy of savings, diligence, and thus managed to produce results that are behind us and that we are proud of. They'll always tell us why you keep repeating these numbers, and we'll never be bored repeating numbers and saying why we're the best in Europe today and why President Alexander Vukic's policy deserves all the praise. We can't say that there's much more than 31.5 thousand dinars than 16,000, which was minimal in 2012, and today when it's 31.5 thousand, these are concrete results and we're behind it. We can't say that it's much better to have 350km of highways today in Serbia, we have a whole network of highways and local traffic that are being built, but what we had during the former government when we had only 50km of highways. We plan to build so many highways in the next period, another 350 kilometers, we want to connect eastern and western Serbia, we want to connect through the Moravia Corridor, from Preljin to Pojat, to show the right way for people why we are here to advocate that this policy continues and to gain further legitimacy. Also, I have to mention that in 2019 we had one record, we broke the record by the number of attracted foreign investments most across Europe. That confession was given to us by no one else, we here SNS MPs or our statement, it was published by the Financial Times. So we have here had more direct foreign investment than the entire Western Balkans. All together had less than Serbia. I guess those are the successes, I guess that should be worth it. So let's say once again, today's investment in health care and in two new units of hospitals and in everything we want to do in the next period is just a confirmation that we are at the same rate of responsible policy that we followed in the previous period. We made a promise to the citizens, before the elections "Serbia 2025", we taxfully cited exactly what we want to restore in Serbia, what we want to invest in money in. So, 14 billion euros have been promised to Serbian citizens that they will be invested in agriculture, tourism, digitalisation, education, sports infrastructure, culture, health care, family care and all that our country needs today. And even today, before these new laws, we say, we are adopting these credit lines because we need them to keep those promises, so that we honor everything that was in our agenda before this election. So we rebuild the infrastructure throughout Serbia, not only in Belgrade, not only in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, larger cities, but in every local community. In this way we show that a man is important to us, that a man from every community, from the local community, from the village and the city, is important to us, that we want to improve the quality of life in every way. With these laws we also promote energy efficiency in central government buildings and in all those municipalities we create both water and sewage infrastructure. The minister said here, 60 municipalities will get a new plumbing and sewerage. It's important to people today in Serbia. They do not understand, unfortunately, those whose life is reduced to a circle of two, who believe that these leaders of the opposition are ours, who think that Belgrade is only, that their partiality is what exists in Serbia. They don't realize that Serbia exists, that they don't go beyond that circle of two, they don't go to see that people need a path, they need a sewer, they need a asphalt. So they don't realize that we here are in favour of our policy and these programs for every man in Serbia. We have to keep investing, because we can't tell the young man to stay in the country if there's no way, if there's no gas, if there's no electricity. He won't stay in the country, everyone will move here. So what are we gonna do? Then Serbia will again be reduced to one plum, as someone wrote a long time ago, to that circle of two. I hope that will not be the case and that is why we will continue to invest in every place in Serbia. These laws show that we care about every local self-government. So I'm sure we'll support this set of laws. Of course, we're still dealing with this. As far as the 2025 Plan is concerned, I would especially like to stress that we will also invest a large part of the money in young people. We sitting here today in the Assembly, there are 40 young people, we really need to show that Serbia is a country that recognises youth as someone who will be the bearer of the future. We want to further improve the position of young people in Serbia and we want our young people to continue to return here. That's what we showed at the time when the crown started, most of our people who were abroad, 400,000 people came back in that first month when that crisis hit. So 400,000 people came here and we want them to stay here. We want Serbia 2025, 600m euros that we have set aside for young people, to motivate them to stay here, to see that they have their perspective here, and to continue to develop our Serbia together in the right way. Also, in addition to six objectives of the new government, we have shown what we will take special care of, the establishment of two new ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Demography are the right indicator of what will be the policy priorities we will be leading in the coming period. The record amounts to the subsidies we adopted and the budget rebalance that was adopted here the other day. Of course, we'll see soon, I hope, Minister, that you will present your programme for the 2021 budget. We have seen in public information funds that up to 30% of the investment budget is planned for capital projects. It's really something to be commended for. We invest in times of the worst crisis that has affected humanity, we continue to think about how to invest in capital projects, how to invest in young people, how to invest in population policy. It is something that we are very proud of and we hope to adopt the budget here soon for 2021 and that we will see in the right way and that everyone will know that Serbia is on the right track, that we want to continue to invest money in everything that our country needs today. It all allows us the fact that we have had stable finances over the past period. Even with these new debts, the debt share in GDP will not exceed 60%, which is again ranked with Europe's most developed countries. Therefore, all those who say – well, there was a deficit in the budget, so of course there was a deficit in the budget when we gave all the money to the economy, when we gave it to the healthcare workers. We could've been like some irresponsible states to keep money in the budget, artificially show off the surplus, and have hundreds of thousands of people out of work. This government has shown that it's here for the citizens. We gave money to the economy, we gave money to the citizens, we gave money to the hospital. We invest 90m euros, when the worst crisis hit the world we invest 90m euros in the new two hoofs of the hospital. That's how we show we're here for the citizens. We don't care if someone on the side of a NGO tells us you have a deficit. Well, of course we will, because we've defined all the money for our citizens. That's why we're here, and that's why the citizens chose us. Once again, we will vote in favour of this set of laws and I hope to see you here soon when we adopt the 2021 budget, which will be developmental and hopefully continue to lead a good proactive policy when it comes to this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u791	I thank Mr. Dabic. Now we're moving on to the list of registered speakers. The word is Mr. Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u792	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Mali, I would like to commend the minister, of the many announced only he is there and that is proof of respect for the National Assembly, according to parliament, to us MPs. I am particularly sorry that the Director of the Government's Public Investment Office is not here, because I think this topic that we're talking about today, this set of laws concerning all citizens and citizens, all local self-government, was very important for him to be present. The only one who may have an excuse not to be here today is the health minister, so I expect the leadership of parliament to be present next time for all those who need to defend this law to be present. The value of the set of this law is 700m euros, and that figure itself speaks of how important the subject we are talking about today is, the very title of the bill "The Emergency Response of the Republic of Serbia to Kovid-19". Supporting the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to alleviate the pandemic, energy efficiency, water supply and wastewater treatment facilities, these are topics concerning every citizen and every citizen and therefore I am very sorry that representatives of other Bosniak parties are not here today in parliament, because the problem of water supply in Tutina, the problem of waste water in Novi Pazar and Prijepolje cannot be solved by politics, but rather by dialogue here in parliament, and especially if we have in mind the fact that the finance minister, as someone most responsible for budget implementation, is present here in parliament today. As for the law concerning and the Agreement on the financing of the fight against Kovida-19, I think a new network of health institutions is crucial. So we need to bring this primary health care unit closer to an ordinary citizen. Every citizen and citizen in the Republic of Serbia is proud of the health institutions we have here in Belgrade. The Institute for orthopedics Banjica, VMA, Clinical Center, these are institutions where we really have top health care and all citizens are proud of it. However, we must do our utmost to ensure that the end consumer, user, citizen, in the Long Poljana in Brodarevo, in Priboj, in Novi Varoša, can have primary health care on one level and therefore a new network of health institutions is needed where Novi Pazar will receive a clinical centre and according to it gravitate both Raška and Sjenica and Tutin, and Prepolje will be one of the smaller centres where citizens and citizens of Prepolje, Preboja and Novi Varoša will have adequate health care. What I want to point out is this agreement regarding water, sewerage and energy efficiency, where over 70 local self-government will receive these funds. I want to point out that the sewerage network and the plumbing in the Sanjay municipalities are in a very bad state, that the quality of these pipes in most cases is asbestos and that it affects the health of all citizens and citizens living there and that it is necessary by all standards, both medical, health, and environmental, replacement of these pipes. We also have a problem with the diameter, and that's why in the summer months, there's a problem with higher water supply quotas. The water processing plant is necessary in all local self-governments in Sandzak, and it is not often a phenomenon that the Raška River in Novi Pazar has a red color, that all municipal waste from the White Field, from Prepolje, from Priboj goes to the Lim River, which should be the pride of this state of Serbia, and Sandzak, and Prepolje, and Preboba and all the cities through which the beautiful river flows. However, we have a situation where the entire municipal waste goes to that river, and our children are bathed there in the summer months, used for fishing, some local self-governments use the river for water supply, and I think it is a key moment, and that is why we will indeed vote with pleasure to solve this burning problem. In the day to vote, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will vote in favour of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u793	I thank Mr. Samir. The next speaker is Mr. Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u794	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, honourable ministers, I will not vote for any of these laws, and for some I will vote against. First of all, in my five minutes, I'm going to try to explain what's going on. Some of them are such projects for which loans are taken open the possibility of corruption manipulation. First of all, we know very well today that bureaucrats in Brussels and Berlin are not immune to corruption, and all of Europe knows it. As far as our politicians are concerned, we never believed it. Then let's start with these projects. The project to rehabilitate the remote heating system in Serbia is a 30m-euro project where we are in debt, has one clause that says KfW, i.e. The German Development Bank, take a fee of 150,000 euros for the so-called organization of jobs. So they're borrowing us, but at the same time we have to pay what's interest and what's guarantees and everything else that goes for a certain loan, for a loan, and they're taking 150,000 euros to organize a job, as if our entire state apparatus can't do that. On the other hand, in the Energy Efficiency Project in public-purpose facilities, this happens with 100,000 euros in commissions. So, in some ways, we here pay a toll of colonial that talks about how after all these changes in America, in Europe, after an epidemic we come into a situation to reunite us and limit our sovereignty. Also, where we can see that some of our civil servants can corrupt these projects is on this famous water supply and purification projects. We have here that it is unlocational where the water lines will be built, it is already said – about 60 municipalities. So, the location is undetermined. We have experience that where KfW worked in the region they built these water pipelines in municipalities where there are no residents for decades, but it was suitable for some local tycoons for some of their villas and other private needs. Also, in all these things you see that when it comes to water treatment, you have an amazing statement that purification plants will be most likely in Chačka, Nis and Kragujevac. So it's not even specified where it's going to be exactly locational, but most likely. So it's a space for certain manipulations. That's why I'm not voting for this. However, what I want to remind you is that we are recently, i.e. you as a majority, voted in favour of a law that introduced the possibility of mandatory immunisation, i.e. Vaccinations. Now I want to remind you that if we are to defend our sovereignty, we must defend it by not voting for these laws, for these loans, for these loans, but also for our sovereignty is also part of the vaccine sovereignty. At the moment when the World Health Organization, after many affairs, is embarrassed and very little trust in them, at the time that some of them were mentioned here today, and present themselves to us in public as great fighters for our health, in 2009, we participated in the affairs of swine flu, when we paid more than two million euros in vaccines than we should have, and when it turns out that the investigation was conducted and against World Health Organization officials, we come to the situation that there is a great mistrust of our people towards our health institutions, especially world health institutions. I'm the president of your party said you're growing mistrust in vaccination. As a man who is not a medical profession, I cannot deal with such things, but I can deal with why it does not continue on the issue of vaccines and vaccinations, the theme of the fact that the Russian Direct Investment Fund has offered our Torlaku to participate in the production of Sputnik V vaccine, to participate in production, and that we know best what ingredients will contain this vaccine and thus best protect the health of our citizens. The vaccine "Sputnik V" according to all its scientific standards and security ratios works on human adenovirus, not on monkey adenovirus, which is very risky and does not know the consequences. From the price point of view and from the point of view of efficiency that should go to 95% is something that can be offered to our people as the safest, but we don't take it as the safest, but we get an offer to participate in the production of that vaccine, which "Fajzer" and similar will not offer us at all, but will see us as guinea pigs, and will sell us tens of thousands of refrigerators, since their vaccine must be stored at 70 degrees Celsius. So all this says is that we lose these proposals to the law on loans not only our financial sovereignty, because we have to pay a toll that is not intended for normal credit conditions, but also our irresponsible relationship with those who offer us vaccines, we also lose vaccine sovereignty. So I need to remind you to pay attention, as the ruling majority, that this is not happening, because one day this will be history, and people will remember how you voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u795	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u796	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, first of all, Mr. Glisic, I see that you have become both an expert and a vaccine and advice in the field of health. I understand you're a lawyer, but if you've changed your profession, that's good for you. I wish you a lot of success and happiness in that. What is important for Serbian citizens, Serbia is much better than much more developed countries cope with the pandemic of the virus. And what President Vucic said, he was working on it, and we're going to have the first vaccine contigent very soon, and that's by the end of this year, we're going to start with the vaccination of Serbian citizens. Good luck to you, of course, in your new job and new activities. As for your comments regarding the agreements. A few things to emphasize that Serbian citizens would have an accurate idea of what you said. So agreements with international financial institutions, KfW is a German development agency. Germany, I'll remind you if you don't know it's number one economy in Europe. It is very important that we develop our relations and, together with them, work with such agencies on improving and infrastructure and quality of life for Serbian citizens. Just working with such agencies outside reduces the possibility of corruption, given each project you have to respect their procedures, the way they work, and that always leads to better realization on the ground. You said that if I'm not mistaken, the importance of the project, that's the last thing I wrote down here. So you were against the loan agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the Water Supply Project, the wastewater treatment facility. I'm going to tell you that I wish these projects had ended in some previous period, that those who were very smart before all of us had done it, that they'd done the highways, that they'd built both a sewage network and a water network, and a wastewater treatment plant. You see, somebody stayed rich and became rich for 619m euros, and they didn't do a sewer if you're talking about the city of Belgrade. Let's say, take a look at the left bank of the Danube. In Serbia, you have a large number of local self-governments that have neither adequate sewerage nor adequate water network, nor waste water treatment plants. In the "Serbia 2025" project and the "Serbia 2025" programme, it is our priority, that after years of fiscal consolidation now and despite the Kovid 19 pandemic, we do not give up this project and that we provide every citizen of Serbia with a connection to the sewage and connection to the water network and to every local self-government and waste water treatment plants. It's called fighting for a better standard for Serbian citizens, it's called fighting for a better quality of life, it's ultimately called fighting and all that infrastructure, which unfortunately because of those who led Serbia in the previous period is still missing. So, "Serbia 2025", this agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe is now allowing us to work on this major project in the largest number of local self-governments, but how long next year we are going to work on this big project. When we get on with it, of course, that we'll end up right in favor of all the citizens who need this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u797	I thank Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vladan Glisic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u798	Mr. Minister, you are the minister of a ruling majority in which one ruling party is because electoral conditions are abnormal, because the electoral legislation abnormally led to me being the only and only opposition representative of the Serb people in this assembly. So, in this assembly as the only opposition representative of the Serb people. I'm the only one who can talk about vaccines and loans and all that and try to send a message to the one that a large part of our people wants to hear, and actually ask you how you might not mind having a congregation that's the same as a party congress. So, in that sense, when... . Please, Mr. Chairman, remind your SNS colleagues that they are not getting to me, they are not able to hear this little, mild criticism that I bring to this House. So it would be polite to at least keep your mouth shut if you weren't prepared in your party to fight for not having a party congress instead of the Serbian Parliament. In that sense, I am a lawyer, and as an opposition MP, I am in charge of talking about what in this House people who are scared of vaccines can't talk about. I am obliged to talk about what in this House cannot be spoken of by people who are concerned about the borrowing of our country, although as a lawyer in the cases in which I am engaged, I must prepare myself and know all this. And thanks to that authority that you have called, which has nothing to do with me, because I have never been in that power, we have a Rules of Procedure that is so undemocratic that the only representative of the opposition from the Serb people, which is me, has only five minutes to address this assembly. So all of these things that the SNS has been correct and fair to this people in these eight years of absolute power could change, and it hasn't changed, because it goes on with everything that the previous regime has done.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u799	Thank you. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is simply amazing that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia we hear that Mr. Vlad Glisic is the only representative of the Serbian people. Well, who do all the people here who sit in the National Assembly represent? Well, I guess first and foremost, we are representatives of the Serbian people in view of the number of votes received in the June 21st elections. The fact that you have five minutes, Mr. Glissic, so that the citizens are not mistaken, that's your choice. You yourself have defined yourself to be an independent MP and to step out of the parliamentary group through which you entered parliament. You did not enter parliament as Vladan Glisic but from the list of Aleksandar Sapic. I don't want to get into it, it's your business why you from the parliamentary group came out but if you stayed in your parliamentary group, you'd have far more time to discuss it, and as an independent MP, as an MP outside the parliamentary group, you have five minutes as well as all the other independent MPs. There's something much more important I want to say. Yesterday, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic said and I will now quote it – We are part of "Kovaxa", if the EU is getting "Fazier" and we will not ask how much it costs. If they get Modern, so will we, but we also talk to our Chinese and Russian partners and with the British. We're talking to everyone. We weren't getting to the vaccine as soon as possible. My question not only for Mr. Glisic, because I think he may be at least responsible, but my question for people like Dragan Gilas, for people like Šolak, for people like Jugoslav Cosic -- how many respirators, the Skuffanders, they got drugs? Those who are rich and almost the same as the AP Vojvodina. The budget of Dragan Gilas is here somewhere with a budget of the AP Vojvodina. My question, the SNS issue for those who scare citizens every day, how will Vukic poison them with an American vaccine -- what have you done to help Serbian citizens? This is what respected citizens of Serbia did, in the election campaign, so much about equality, so much about equality, so much about the objectivity of the media and so much about the lack of freedom of the media in the dictatorial regime of Aleksandr Vukic. The Serbian Progressive Party paid 3.9m dinars for the broadcast of 28 videos on TV, on Sollak's TVs, meaning N1 and Nova S, and Gilas's party, the so-called joint opposition to Serbia that boycotted the elections, for anti- Boycott spots that were 408. So our 28 and their 408, she paid 1.2 million dinars. Which means that we from SNS per spot cost 139 thousand 285 dinars, and Mr. Dragan Gilas his video cost, imagine, two thousand 941 dinars. It is those who every day scare Serbian citizens that Vukic will poison them with a vaccine, that he will install a 5G network through the vaccine into their brain system, so he will be able to monitor them for 24 hours where they are, what they are doing, who they are meeting with, etc. It is those who say that nothing is wrong with what we did during this epidemic, but cannot explain to the citizens of Serbia what it is that they did better than Vukic and better than all of us and better than the Ministry of Health and better than the Crisis Staff, that we have more drugs, more scuffanders, more respirators, less sick, less dead. They didn't do anything at all. To make things worse, they continued to do what they were doing and when they were in power, to get rich over television seconds. Well, shame on you! While people die, while Vukic and the people of the Health Ministry of Crisis are struggling to get the vaccine as soon as possible, we will have a vaccine before many European countries, here, perhaps in December or early January, what does Dragana Gilas do? What he was doing and while he was a minister, while Tadic was the head of the National Office, an imaginary state body that doesn't exist anywhere in the Constitution and in the law, while he was mayor of Belgrade, a man does what he did and while he was in power, at the time of the epidemic -- he gets rich. He is also rich in the position of one rich man, too rich, too rich for all things, both European and world, and especially according to Serbian standards, every day he gives us the sense that nothing is right, that we are going to poison people with a vaccine. We're going to poison people, we who are the first in Serbia, after who knows how many years, we're going to bring in an intelligent program to help Serbian families have as many children as possible? So we're going to kill our children, and we've done everything we can to make more children in Serbia. I can't tell you anything but shame on you for what you did to the citizens of Serbia by 2012 and for what you do today, bastards, criminals and thieves!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u801	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Replica, Mr. Vladan Glisic, with the request that we have an understanding of a different attitude and to show that this Assembly has its own dignity that protects. The word is Mr. Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u802	Mr. Martinovic has known me long enough in politics and knows that I have never disputed the legitimacy of one who received over 60% of the votes in the elections. Therefore, I have not said for a moment that I am the only representative of the Serb people. I don't know if Mr Martinovic heard correctly, I said I was the only opposition representative of the Serb people, and the only opposition representative of the Serb people was because I decided to leave the parliamentary club that became part of your ruling majority. Without me as the only opposition representative of the Serb people, you wouldn't be able to hear what I'm saying to you on behalf of those people who are dissatisfied with your authority, and not all of them, and much of them are not the supporters of those whom you have criticized before. Therefore, in this sense, I will continue to represent opposition positions and I want the public of Serbia to know, especially the public who does not have their representatives in the Serbian Parliament but me, in a strange way, that this Serbia needs an opposition who will be willing to acknowledge what you are doing, because your voters are only today your voters, very soon they will not be your voters if you continue to act as a party that turns Serbia into a single-party state. Many of those who support me and my people's network want to see an opposition that you can't respect constantly what you've always respected for those who ruled until 2012, and don't forget, you've been ruling here for eight years, which is, if you have normal election cycles, two election cycles and you retain many of the fluids of those who ruled until 2012, not to talk about the human resources that many members of your party are unhappy with and many of your party won't be ready to vote for you, because many, as you call them, are yellow, now at the top of your power.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u803	Replica, Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u804	As a Democrats for Persuasion, I respect Mr Glisic as an opposition MP, but I needed to say this, Mr Glisic, simply in order for Serbian citizens to know that under a fake cover of a television such as "N1" or under a fake cover of a television such as "New S", under fake masks, various newspapers, various Sundays, various portals are like the media, and in fact they are political opponents. We in Serbia now, that's my opinion, I may be wrong, but in Serbia now we have the same situation that we had in the United States, which was in the United States when Trump took over. My impression is that Donald Trump failed to show even 10% of his options, because as soon as he won the 2016 presidential elections, he was obsessed with artillery fire media that were actually open supporters of DS policy. The same is true of you in Serbia. You are now not allowed to say anything about the TV "N1", because then they will tell you – well, you are attacking an independent medium. You can't say anything about "New S", you're against freedom of the media. You say we're the same as those who ruled until 2012. It's your opinion, but Serbian citizens don't think like you do. Serbian citizens see that we have created complete discontinuity with their policy in all areas of social life and on the economy and on Kosovo and Metohija and on the choice of our strategic partners. Mr. Glisic, imagine this incredible situation that people like Dragan Gilas are in power today, when we got caught up in this pain that's hit the whole world, so do you think he'd worry about whether there are enough respirators in hospitals, do we have enough scuffanders, when we're going to get a vaccine? Well, do you know what he would do? When the vaccine was found, he would get on a plane, go to America, Great Britain, Russia, China, who knows where, take the vaccine and don't care, and we don't do it like that. We are doing everything we can to help the citizens of Serbia. Give me a country... After all, he was talking to my esteemed colleague a lot younger than me and a half years and a half of political experience, but he showed great knowledge, not to go to other countries, look, we also found opportunities in terms of epidemics to help businesses, to help entrepreneurs, to help small businesses survive and not just survive, but to keep people working with them and to make even a certain profit. Find me a country in Europe, even a country that is a member of the EU, which has come after me. Look at some land around here. Look at Romania, look at Bulgaria, look at Croatia. The media in Croatia are laughing, ridiculously talking about the number of patients and the number of deaths in Serbia, and with them the situation is ten times worse, but not to deal with them. That's their thing. They have pathological hatred for Serbs and I don't find it surprising, but I'm surprised that you don't see all the positive things we've done since 2012, especially all the positive things we've done in this perhaps most difficult year in the modern history of the Serbian people, difficult because of health, due to the epidemiological conditions. If there were no epidemic, so Serbia would literally be an economic leader not only in this part of Europe, but throughout Europe. A few countries could compete with us, but even under the conditions of this severe epidemic, we manage to keep up with not the countries in the environment, we are long past them, we manage to keep up with one Germany, with one France, with countries that were once light years ahead of us. We, a little by little, year by year, catch up. We'll hardly ever catch up with them, given the hard legacy of the post-World War II and the 1990s, etc. But we have shown that we can change Serbia for the better. So I say to you, "Do not be like those hypocrites, described in the New Testament; Christ brings back sight to the blind people, to those who cannot walk; he raises them on their feet, and the hypocrites say, "Where is your miracle, and where are these men whom you have healed?" You will not see anything but what the whole Serbian people you call upon see. Well, the whole Serbian people see Serbia moving forward and spray the people here in Serbia and the Serbian people in Montenegro and the Serbian people in Republika Srpska. Do not be like those described thousands of years before us in the New Testament, who do not see things that every common man sees. This is what everyone sees, and everyone sees that people like Dragan Gilas, like Solak, criminals and thieves of the worst possible species, are rich in conditions when Serbia is hit by an accident called the Coronal Virus epidemic. I tell them once again, shame on them, and we'll ask the Corruption Prevention Agency, they'll be here next week, asking them what they're going to do about what Dragan Gilas and his coalition partners did to the election campaign. What kind of media darkness is this, I end up, Mr. Chairman, what kind of media darkness is this, what kind of horror is Alexander Vukic's rule, what is the media's lack of freedom in which a single video costs, as I said nearly 140 thousand dinars, and for Dragan Gilas, it costs three thousand dinars? Who's here in the dark, Dragan Gilas or me from SNS? I don't think Serbia's citizens need to be explained any more, it's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u805	I thank all the participants in this discussion. I call on the next speaker, Stefan Srbanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u806	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I will say a few words about the points concerning the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank KfW, and this is about the field of energy efficiency and rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia. For many years, we in Priboj have been having problems with city heat and heating, and above all it is that this old FAP boiler room is almost 40 years old and has eventually become inefficient and uses an import and energy set such as the mule, which really pollutes the environment. Because of this, co-operation was also made in 2014 with the German Organisation for International Co-operation of GIZ and within the programme "The Development of the Bioenergy Market in Serbia". At that time, a working group consisted of representatives of all local self-government of the Goldibor Management District, along with representatives of people from the "Serbian Forest". The task of this working group was to replace import, expensive and non-organic fuels with organic and renewable fuels from the area of the Zlatibor district. In 2016 and 2019, two smaller biomass heats were made on several public institutions in the old and new part of the city, and in 2017 the municipality signed a grant and loan contract from the Serbian-German Development Assistance Programme, and the programme was implemented in co-operation with the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. We in Priboj are extremely proud of this partnership and that we are part of this programme, given that Germany is probably the single largest foreign investor in Serbia. The German companies employ nearly 60,000 people in Serbia and we will open a new German investor factory in Priboj in a few days or weeks, which will employ about 400 people. It's the first factory to be built from the ground up in Priboj after 40 years, which speaks enough about it. On September 21st, this year itself, as part of this programme of Serbian-German aid exchange, the construction of a city heat plant in Priboj, which is due for construction on October 1st of the following year. That heat will be, there will be a boiler that will use a wooden log and that will be the strength of eight megawatts. It's going to have a spare boiler on the pot-oil that's going to be a total of 15 megawatts. The value of this project is about seven million euros and it is, I say, being provided through the German Development Bank KfW and the loan has been taken for 20 years and the interest is 1.1%. Enough to say that the annual savings after the new heat will be built are around 500,000 euros, which speaks enough about the value and essence of this whole project. Also in the future, energy efficiency measures are expected in buildings in the remote heating system, designing project-technical documentation for hospital heating and home health in the old part of the city. A feasibility study on biomass in the free zone, a reduction in CO2 by almost 40% by 2030. What I have in my hand right now is a summary of everything that has happened positively in Priboj over the last four years, which has changed a complete picture of Priboj. So it's not any party pamphlet and a list of good wishes, it's the result of a thorough and serious work run in Priboj. For example, if you turn only one of these pages, you will see where it says, for example, that in Priboj the reconstructed OS "Desanka Maksimović" and Machine-Electrotechnical school is very easy to make sure that all of this that I say is true, because when you walk around the new part of the city, you will really see two fully renovated schools, with a completely re-built gym and its own biomass heat, and all of course with the help of the Government of Serbia through the Public Investment Office. When a free zone was formed in 2016 on the initiative of President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it was hardly anyone who believed that over 500 people would now work in the area, operate seven foreign and domestic companies, and that this space would become a vessel of housewives and a driver of economic, industrial and economic development of Priboj. In addition to fighting for new jobs, I must point out that a complete sports infrastructure has been restored in Priboj, that several ambulances have been renovated in the coastal villages, which favours our oldest citizens living in the villages, that it has been paved into dozens of new miles of highways, which is the basis of rural development in the village, a renovated stationary in Pribojska Banja, where I come from. All of these are the results for which we have received truly huge support from the citizens of Priboj. There we do not plan to stop and we have plans for the future and we are facing the completion of the investment and investment projects planned both in the infrastructure and in the economic strengthening of our city, tourism, sport, culture so that the Priory is what it is again, and that is a city rich in different contents. Also, a hill-to-road battalion that will be formed in Priboj next year shows and confirms co-operation between the Serbian Army, the Resord Ministry and FAP, all in order to raise the dedicated industry, use FAP's potential for these purposes. We are expected to build both complete water and water production plants, reconstruction of the gymnasium, home of health and hospital, construction of a closed pool in the new part of the city, completion of the work on the arrangement of the old Priboj. Really, I could talk to you by tomorrow about what's ahead of us and what's all the plans for the future, but I'll do it some other time. Finally, I would like to add that the Municipality of Priboj is in constant communication and coordination with the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to bring new investors into both the free zone and the rest of our city. I must say that local self-government has both approved and prepared for the implementation of projects of around 44m euros, which means that we are really ready to welcome the implementation of the project "Serbia 2025". For all of this, we owe a great debt of gratitude to the state and its strategic relationship as the recovery of the Priory. The prison has always been a picture and opportunity of Serbia and those times that were difficult and behind us, but now we are hard and hard and hard and we are moving forward. We work on it every day because the force that drives us is the trust that the citizens of Preyboy have in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u807	I thank Mr. Stefan. The next is counterpart Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u808	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens, Serbia is among the most polluted countries in Europe. The health of people is more endangered, the life span is shortened, the quality of life is disrupted. One of the fiscal council reports was just about investing in ecology. According to their assessment, increased investment in environmental protection would improve the structure of the budget with higher public investments, and this would again lead to an increase in economic growth. In view of the above, the proposal for a law on the validation of the Framework Agreement on a programme loan relating to water supply and wastewater treatment plants is thus even more important. In water supply, the aim is to protect water quality and reduce water loss and the implementation of water resources in Serbia, and waste water treatment will include financing the construction of new facilities and connections of sanitary networks. In 168 cities and municipalities, there are only 40 purification plants, most of which are obsolete. According to the NAED report in Serbia, only 16% of wastewaters released into the sewers are cleaned annually. No water from the water supply is available to every five Serbian residents, and each has no sewers. As far as Europe is concerned, the figures are next. According to a general estimate, over 80% of the population in Central and Northern Europe is connected to municipal wastewater treatment plants. In Southeast Europe, percentages range from 48% to 87%. Very interesting data comes from Croatia. The Croatian Public Health Institute in co-operation with Zagreb waste water has launched a wastewater monitoring project, as recent research has shown that the discovery of the corona of the virus to waste water can help track the Kvid 19 epidemic, by testing water scrapers on RNA, fish-nucleic acid from Kovid 19, which would be a tool for early warning. This shows that the benefits of purification and the use of wastewater are immeasurable. I am especially pleased to have found Kragujevac on the list of cities in which the purification facilities will be built. All I care about is a little word - most likely, which appears in the bill, so I would take the opportunity to ask the minister if "most likely" means a safe investment in those cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u809	Thank you. The word has a colleague named Milica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u810	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, and above all respected citizens of Serbia, without diminishing the importance of any segment covered by this set of laws, I would refer to the part relating to the Agreement with the Council of Europe Development Bank, which concerns water supply and wastewater treatment facilities. Namely, as President Aleksandar Vukic announced just over a year ago to present the investment plan "Serbia 2025", proving once again that the politician is thinking of the next election and the statesman is thinking of the next generation, we are going to invest in a water and sewerage network, but also waste water treatment plants, which means increasing the standards of environmental protection, i.e. a more humane, safer and healthy environment for all citizens. The first component of this programme is financing priority measures to rebuild and improve the water network in 60 local self-government in Serbia. Water network losses in certain local self-governments are up to 70%, with 70% for Serbia as a whole. So in 60 towns and municipalities of Serbia to which this programme applies lives close to two million people. Two million people will receive improved water quality for drinking through this programme, reduce water losses in local systems and increase water distribution efficiency. The second component covered by this programme is the reconstruction of existing and construction of new wastewater treatment plants, but also the expansion of the associated sewerage network in a large number of local self-governments. More than 50% of Serbia's industrial plants do not clean up waste water, because they are not in operation, and as the co-worker pointed out earlier, there are about 40 of these plants that are obsolete and to make any progress in this area, it takes years and decades of commitment, given that these plants should be 320 over the next 15 years. I will remind you that according to the Directive on the purification of municipal waste water, the EU Directive, all settlements with more than 2,000 inhabitants must have such facilities, which ultimately is very important to us for the opening of Chapter 27. Of course, someone might wonder why we didn't start such a big investment before? However, we had to work to reduce unemployment, to create new jobs, to reach that level, and to have a 7.3% unemployment rate in Serbia today, to have continued wage growth, to start working on these things as well. Of course, in the previous period, we all know that projects like this have been carried out in Raška, Kruševec, Vranja, Leskovac, Kula, Vrbas and in some other cities in Serbia. Anyone who has read, and has been here before us a program of government, a new government that we have chosen a little over a month ago, has also seen that there is no such term – most likely, but that it is taxed in which cities will be built like this. That's why it's very important to me that my Cacak is on a map of those local self-governments that will operate one such facility where the value of the investment is about 23m euros with the construction of the facility itself, belonging to the traffic and the construction of the associated sewerage network. It is the largest capital investment directly related to my city in the coming period, and it is my pleasure to say that this project is also ready in the final phase just as I know and that for some other cities, local self-government has been constantly working for many years to provide a complete project so that we can apply for funds from the state. This means that the quality of life for more than 110 thousand inhabitants in my city will be improved, that after construction we will have a healthier and cleaner Morava. This is the capital for the healthy life of future generations because building a plant like this creates a cleaner ecosystem, and businesses significantly reduce costs. To conclude, this topic is being highly maintained on both the first and sixth final objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all other state bodies. With these investments, we contribute to a better health picture of our citizens, the overall quality of life on the one hand, and on the other hand, cities that have such facilities are much more attractive to investors, which I am sure will affect Serbia's further economic strengthening. Finally, in my first address, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that I am pleased to work with you to strengthen such a political institution important to every democratic society and to be on the list led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, who, through this programme and through all these laws today, takes care of every village, every municipality, every local self-government in the Republic of Serbia, in our beautiful Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u811	I thank my colleague and, at the same time, congratulate her on her first address at the National Assembly. I'm calling out to my colleague, Mr. Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u812	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, besides a group of agreements on the agenda and a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of paid foreign savings from citizens established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. This law was passed in 2016, and concerns the state's commitment to depreciate old foreign currency savings that had their foreign currency savings before 27 April 1992 in banks in Serbia's territory and their exposures on the territory of the former SFRY, before the definitive collapse of the former state and the formation of the SRJ. Otherwise, the law was passed in order to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, which stemmed from the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg, before which a group of savings from the former SFRY republics exercised this right. In line with this ruling, the Serbian state had an obligation to pay off unpaid old foreign currency savings. It is a non-payment of foreign savings deposited in our banks, and the government's obligation mainly concerns savings that had their savings roles in the exposures of our banks in Slovenia, Northern Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia or in the parent banks in Serbia. Some of these banks, unfortunately after October 5th, were pushed into a bankruptcy that has not been completed, are "Jugobank", "Invest-bank", "Belgrade Bank", "Beobanka". The law created an institutional framework for the right to pay off old foreign currency savings. The law provides for the establishment of the right to pay off old foreign exchange savings by the Public Debt Administration as a body within the Ministry of Finance, as funds for the implementation of this law are treated by the public debt of the Republic of Serbia based on an international obligation, which is the judgment of the Strasbourg court. The basic law stipulates that this business is being dealt with by a special Commission formed by the Government. Its task is to establish, on the basis of the documentation collected and the application of old foreign savings within the deadline provided for, proposals that meet the conditions for the exercise of the right to pay off the foreign savings. The commission was composed of 11 members, three members from the finance ministry, four members from the Public Debt Administration, one member from the State's Attorney's Office, one member from the Deposit Insurance Agency and two members from the National Bank of Serbia. According to the information given in the light of this law, this Commission has worked seriously and professionally in the previous period. She held 117 sessions, considered as much as 9,500 applications submitted. The Commission received requests within the time limit laid down in the law. It is also an important task for the Commission to verify the complete documentation and accuracy of the data of the applicant, and to establish on the basis of this, whether catches for the purpose of obtaining the right to pay off old foreign savings, on the basis of a proposal from the Commission, the Public Debt Administration shall adopt a final act on the fulfilment of the conditions for the payment of old foreign savings. Since 2018, the Management has adopted a Decision on as much as 94% of the laws passed, which speaks of the effective work of the Commission and the Administration. The amendments to this law that are before us today relate to the extension of the deadline for determining the right to pay off the old foreign currency savings. The current law set a deadline which expired on 23 December 2019, and now extends the deadline in which applications will be decided until 31 August 2023. The second amendment of the law refers to the number of members of the Commission who are downgraded from the current 11 members to five members. The reason for this change is to streamline the work, since there are only about 6% of unexecuted applications left, with mainly judicial proceedings in which the most frequently old foreign currency savings are the subject of desert proceedings. It is important in the end to point out that the funds for the implementation of this law are provided by the Budget Law for 2020 and that they will also be balanced from the budget in the coming years. The payment of the old foreign savings will take place in eight wars, every 28 February and 31 August, starting on 28 February 2020, until 31 August 2023 when all obligations of the Republic of Serbia are to be met on the basis of outstanding foreign exchange savings. I would like to point out that in this way, the state of Serbia has taken over the commitments of banks in which the citizens of the former SFRY had foreign currency savings and has shown great responsibility to this problem that has arisen as a result of the collapse of the SFRY. The SPS parliamentary group will support the proposal and vote in favour of the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u813	I thank my colleague. I'm calling Mr. Rajko Chaplain.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u814	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like at first to take the opportunity to thank the citizens of Serbia for the enormous trust they gave us in the June 21st elections this year and to tell them that this assembly of parliament, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, will do everything to justify the trust you have given us in this crisis time. We are facing today a set of laws that will help the Serbian government continue to fight to strengthen our economy, continue to fight the crown of the virus, and continue to fight each and every citizen to improve the quality of life. This year 2020 has been very difficult for all citizens of Serbia and thank God that this severe crisis has hit us at the moment when our economy has been at the highest level in the last 30 years. I am truly afraid to imagine what would happen if the crown hit us in 2010, 2011 or 2012, in the years when our people lived very hard, when they lost their jobs on a daily basis, and when the state of Serbia was literally in front of bankruptcy and when it barely had the means to pay its citizens' salaries and pensions. People who were then in power and who are guilty of the situation in which Serbia is at the time, today have the right to criticise every move of this parliament, every move and measure of the crisis staff, every move of the Serbian government, and yet every move by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Fortunately for all of us, Serbian citizens see very well who is fighting for their interests, and therefore in the 2012 elections, and then in all elections from that year until today, they have shown what they think of them and have clearly said that they support the policy offered by the SNS, which is a policy of hard work, policies of difficult reforms, policies of honesty and policies of responsibility. The governments that followed, the governments led by Aleksandar Vukic, followed by Ana Brnabic, managed to lift our economy and create from Serbia a state that is able to respond to every crisis, as did the one that hit us this year. Just because we were economically strong the moment we were hit by the coronary crisis, we were able to raise huge resources and help our health workers who carried out the greatest burden in the fight against the crown. Just because we were economically strong, we managed to invest huge resources in our health system to get every citizen of Serbia in time to receive the necessary care. Just because we were economically strong, we were able to invest huge resources and save our economy, so that there would be no mass layoffs of people, which was happening in much stronger economies of the world. And most importantly, just because we were economically strong, we were able to help each of our citizens individually and all of Serbia's citizens felt that their country would always stand for them when it was difficult for them. That's why it's important that we continue to work and strengthen our economy. It is therefore important that we continue to fight and realise the 2025 plan, that our citizens live better every day, that every part of Serbia develops evenly, that every year they grow and pay and pension, and that in 2025, the average salary is 900 euros and the average pension is 440 euros. I am sure we will achieve this, as we have achieved to enter this year with an average salary of over 500 euros. So I appeal to all citizens of Serbia, respect the protection measures against the coronary virus, protect your health, protect the health of people around you, need your country. It's the only way we can go through this crisis together and it's the only way we can keep working and fight for our country. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u815	I thank my colleague and congratulate you on your first address at the National Assembly. Next up is colleague Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u816	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the draft law confirming the loan agreement, i.e. The project "Emergency Response of the Republic of Serbia to Kovid-19" between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the financing of the public sector. What is characteristic of these agreements that I am going to talk about today is the fact that they aim to improve the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and protect the most valuable in human health. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has offered a package of direct support through loans to help countries in their efforts to respond to the crisis caused by the outbreak of the Kovida-19 disease epidemic, which has turned into a global pandemic. This project will complement ongoing activity and investment to better address this crisis specifically. In particular, the project will finance activities aimed at responding to the threat posed by Kovid-19 and strengthening the national health system, aimed at raising the level of alertness in the Republic of Serbia. The project is structured through the implementation of activities divided into two basic components. The component one envisions funding for the following activities. I will list all activities to make it clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what it is and where the money will be spent. These are: case detection, confirmation of infection, contact monitoring, reporting through the strengthening of the disease control system, national reference laboratories and laboratories in the public health sector and epidemiological capacities for early detection and confirmation of cases, support for epidemiological research, capacity building for health risk assessment, and support for strengthening the health sector information management system and timely exchange of information. The project will allow the establishment of two additional regional Kovid-19 laboratories within the Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad and the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, with a capacity of 1000 samples per day, which will increase the overall testing capacity in Serbia. The project will enable the procurement of additional protective equipment based on the need set out by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the integration of all SARS-Kov-2 laboratories into the health information system, in order to create a comprehensive electronic surveillance system over Kovida-19. What will protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the establishment of a quick test at Nikola Tesla Belgrade Airport and Konstantin Veliki Airport in Nis, as well as at the selected border crossings for passenger traffic. Of course, with complete security tested in separate test points, trained personnel with protective equipment for dealing with citizens who show positive testing and their transportation to isolation centres. I note that this first component includes the creation of guidelines for implementing phase measures, promoting and implementing measures and raising awareness of citizens, especially sensitive groups of communities, including the Roma population, safe houses users, prisoners and other sensitive groups. I also mention the implementation of training, seminars and symposiums for medical workers in order to provide optimal care, treatment and prophylaxis. It is particularly important to take a look at the capacity of hospital treatment by setting up and renovating specialised units in selected hospitals, developing a strategy to increase the availability of hospital beds, support for intensive care units, support for strengthening the management and disposal of medical waste. What I would add is that this component finds and supports and strengthens the primary health care that we unfairly underestimated, because preventive medicine and investment in it reduces the attack to secondary and therapeutic protection. After all, there is always something better to prevent than treat, which is also the goal of preventive medicine. The second component of this project points to the management of implementation and monitoring of project evaluations, which will deal with the project coordination unit set up by the Ministry of Health, and will be responsible for overall coordination and implementation of the project in co-operation with the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Network of the Institute of Public Health. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 29 May 2020, and the amount of debt granted by the bank is 92m euros. Negotiations have defined that the loan agreement provides for the use of the retroactive financing mechanism, which implies a refund on the costs and resources of loans of a maximum amount of 36m euros, in order to compensate for all payments made on the basis of the countering of the consequences of the pandemic, including before the signing of the agreement, starting on 1 March 2020. Proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector, i.e. support for the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to mitigate the consequences of the Kovida-19 pandemic. The objective of this loan is to provide financial support to the Republic of Serbia's budget, as these funds will cover the extraordinary operational costs of health services and the purchase of equipment and consumables needed to address the emergency situation caused by the pandemic. Thanks to this loan, we will preserve the sustainability of social investment and remove the gaps in funding flows, and thus reduce the cost of budget funding. The reminders for the 15th of March 2020 in the Republic of Serbia were made a decision to declare a state of emergency for the control of the infectious disease Kovida-19, and then a whole series of measures aimed at curbing the spread of the virus's corona and preserving the health of the population. In order to respond to this challenge to the least possible extent, the state has increased the supply and consumption of medical materials and equipment, primarily protective masks, protective suits, disinfectants, respirators, fans, and other equipment. It also joined the opening of temporary hospitals for the reception of sick, construction and renovation of existing laboratories and hospitals. The state and government of the Republic of Serbia's response was timely, good and adequate to the emerging situation. Although the enemy of the invisible naked eye was not well known, we knew from day one that wearing masks and physical distances and strengthened personal and hygiene of personal and work space yielded results. That loan agreement was signed in Belgrade on 27 May 2020 and in Paris on 10 May 2020. This agreement will provide support to the healthcare sector to cover increased costs for the purchase of sanitary material, personal protective equipment, medical equipment and other consumable medical material needed to take all safeguards in health institutions. In one word, end-users of the loan will be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those infected with the virus, as well as all other healthcare users, as well as health workers. For this reason, I urge my colleagues to vote for the Framework Agreement, as well as for the previous one I spoke about, because this fight is a fight that should be unique to all of us. This struggle is simply a struggle with the naked eye of an invisible enemy who has ruled the world and it costs. It costs us lost lives first and financially. The fight will take no one to know when, but it will also exhaust the financial state. That's why the loan money in this fight is more than ever needed and, as my esteemed colleague, Djordje Milicevic, said, in this fight we really need to be all unique. The loan will amount to 200m euros and are available to the Republic of Serbia in 2020 and 2021 in the fiscal year. I must stress that this type of loan is not possible to finance salaries and similar purchases and fees, as well as financial costs, such as various types of taxis, fees and other. The finance ministry, as the body responsible for implementing the project, will be responsible for communicating with the bank, co-ordination with the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Fund and will monitor the dedicated spending of funds, which will be provided by periodic reports to the bank. Finally, I would like to remind you that in the voting day, we are voting for the drafts of these laws, as will the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u817	Thank you. Next is counterpart Biljana Jakovljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u818	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proposals for an agreement that lies before us today mark the continuation of funding primarily for the health and life of our citizens, as well as the reduction of the negative consequences of economics and economics, but also the financing of large capital projects that are envisaged by the 2025 investment plan. We are witnessing that Serbia is very good at fighting the consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus, and this is thanks to the very difficult reforms carried out by President Aleksandar Vukic in 2014 and responsible financial policy over the past six to seven years. It is precisely thanks to the responsible financial policy of the SNS and the president that we have succeeded in helping our health system over the past months, we have managed to provide all the necessary medicines and equipment necessary to treat the coronary of the virus, we have managed to employ a large number of health workers, to raise salaries in the health sector, we have managed to build, that is, to reconstruct a large number of health centres. Even realisation is under way, i.e. the construction of two covid hospitals, one in Batajnica, the other in Kruševec, and we continue with that. It is these financial investments that continue the fight to preserve the health of our citizens. But in addition to fighting to preserve the health and life of our citizens, we continue with large capital investments. Today's programmes concern the financing of water and sewage infrastructure, as well as investment in energy efficiency. Water sector financing primarily concerns water supply and construction of a wastewater treatment plant. The town of Cačak, from which I have come, has managed in the past few years to buy part of the plot on which a wastewater treatment plant will be built and this refers to more than 100,000 inhabitants of the town of Cačka. As for investments in improving energy efficiency, the programme covers energy recovery measures on 50 to 60 public-purpose facilities in the education, health, sports and social protection sector across Serbia. These investments in water and sewage infrastructure, as well as energy efficiency, are only part of the investment plan aimed at speeding up life in our country. I must point out that at times like this, we have been able to identify significant means of travel infrastructure, especially for the construction of highways, which signify the introduction of new investors, and hence new jobs and the acceleration of the economy in our country. In particular, I must refer to the importance of building the Moravski Corridor, both for the town of Cačak and for the entire Moravički, Raški, the Zlatibor County, for the entire western and central Serbia. But the importance of the Moravia Corridor is not only in bringing new investors and faster flow of goods and capital, but we will also manage the waters of South, West and Great Morava, which have done great damage to travel infrastructure and businesses in previous years. I will also take advantage of the opportunity to mention large capital investment that has accelerated the standard of living of citizens of Cačka in previous years, and this is also the highway "Milos Veliki", then two German factories that have enabled new jobs for our citizens, as well as the opening of the Morava airport in Brodjevci, which has brought our city together with large European cities and we are sure that after this pandemic of the Corona virus, thanks to the Morava airport, we will be able to accelerate both economic and tourist potential. At the very end of my first presentation in parliament, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support these programmes and any future programmes that intend and aim to provide the best possible future in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u819	I thank you, too, and I also congratulate you on your first address at the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u820	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable chairman, the Serbian government has been attaching great importance to energy efficiency in our country, and much has been done in this field in recent years. First of all, the Energy Efficiency Use Act was adopted, but in 2015 a truly comprehensive and quality energy development strategy was adopted in the Republic of Serbia for the period until 2025, with projections until 2030 and it stressed the need to increase the share of renewable energy. Of course, our main goal, what we can do, is to rehabilitate the remote heating system in the Republic of Serbia, primarily by quality maintenance of distribution networks, by reducing losses in distribution networks, but by modernising these distribution networks on the other hand. It is precisely the arrangement that our country has with Germany that allows us to really invest a large amount of money in different projects, and I must stress that the agreement itself was established between the SR of Germany and Serbia in 2013 and during 2014, and in 2015 and 2017 there were final agreements. I am pleased to say that up to today, 130m euros have been allocated to Serbia's remote heating rehabilitation programme, of which 88.7m donations, and 57m is a development loan with subsidized interest very favourable, with interest less than 1% on the annual level, around 0.9% and 14.75% of Serbia's share in the project itself. These projects modernised and rehabilitated companies in 22 cities, from Belgrade, Bor, Valjev, Zrenjanin, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Kraljev, Nis, and Novi Pazar. It's really a big deal. It is possible that, mainly in these cities that I have listed, those who have no gas are supplied with biomass, and the possibility of obtaining energy from the most common mules, or fossil fuels, is eliminated, which is also the largest pollutant in this field of energy. In this way, productivity has increased by about 15%, capacity has increased in all these cities, and at the same time it has been reduced, I think it is an extremely important data for us, and pollution in certain cities. I am saying all of this with a desire to support together these two proposals for a law on validation, above all the Framework Loan Agreement for Rehabilitation of Remote Management in Serbia. That's phase five. These four stages behind us have already passed, in which we ask for a 30 million loan approval. Once again, one major part will be donations, a small part of the loan, something we certainly need to adopt, as well as proposals to confirm the Energy Efficiency Loan Agreement in central government buildings. So the other direction and other desire is what this government is already doing, is that what we produce from energy is being saved in the right way. I must remind you that Serbia belongs to a group of countries that spends extremely much electricity, among the countries is the largest electricity consumption in Europe. I think this way we will reduce that consumption, but also reduce total pollution, given that much of Serbia is heating up on fossil fuels. It is our obligation and something that we are particularly doing, given that I am a member of the Committee on European Integration. We are preparing and preparing and handing over the Negotiation Platform, i.e. point 27, which deals with environmental and environmental protection. We understand that Serbia must very quickly reduce the production of coal electricity, and to move more and more to clean sources, renewable sources, ecologically healthy sources and thus make this country healthier for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u821	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Petar Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u822	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The pandemic of the coronary virus is something we couldn't expect in our worst dreams. There's a feeling that we're in a nightmare that can't pass. A growing number of patients reporting, not only in Serbia, but throughout Europe. The third wave's just taking off. Turns out he's much worse than the first and second waves. We remember only a few months ago a picture from China when the pandemic began with a crown, when there were a large number of patients on the streets, in hospitals, and none of us could believe that it would happen in Serbia or in Europe. Day after day, the pandemic also appeared in Europe, and unfortunately it also appeared in Serbia. I have a feeling we're at war, with our opponent not being seen, and our first lines of battle are all of us together, especially health workers. I've spoken to a number of colleagues, especially those older ones who have retired for a long time, and I've asked them if they've had any experience with such an epidemic, with any such infectious disease? Believe me, the answer is no. No disease has so many different clinical images, so many different symptoms, so many different complications and unfortunately fatal outcomes. Believe me, in the third wave, we have an increasing number of young people. These are the people who ran with their children just a few days ago, played with their children. These are the people who were athletes, who were actively living, and after a few days they appeared to the doctor asphyxiating, they can't take a few steps to avoid fatigue. They're people who complain of pain, they're people who break the temperature, and they're people who talk to a doctor. As I said before, only a few days ago, they were completely healthy people. I get the impression when people talk about the crown that it's some imaginary thing that's not happening in Serbia. But trust me when you don't give God one of your family or one of your loved ones a disease, only then do you see how severe the effects of the crown are. We've got old people on oxygen support, and we're giving them oxygen so they can breathe. Every day they have progress and we add larger and larger amounts of oxygen, and there is no improvement to them. These people look you in the eye and ask – will I survive, will I once again see my granddaughter who is at home? These are problems, these are difficult issues that health workers in Serbia face daily. That's why it's a little funny when I hear someone say - the crown is made up, the crown doesn't exist. Well, no healthcare worker is crazy enough to wear a suitor for eight months, to wear a mask, to separate himself from his family, so he doesn't see his children, his grandmothers, his loved ones, so he won't pass the crown on to them. Believe me, aside from the large number of new people we have every day, that's a huge number of people. You know, in the first and second waves, we've never had 5,000 new ones a day. But in addition to the large number of new patients that we treat every day, we have an increasing number of people who in the first and second waves have passed the crown and have antibodies to the coronal, and now they have severe coronal complications. It's a heart attack, stroke, heart attack, lung tissue and others. These are difficult complications and very dangerous complications that can end with a fatal outcome. A few days ago, I had a young person, a sportsman who was preparing to go to basketball abroad, and at one time during training, she felt a lot of chest pain. In the first wave, he had a crown, he didn't feel it at all, and today he's a young person of 20 who's tired and who has severe chest pains, who had to do punctures, that's to extract fluid from the heart tissue so that he can live normally and that he can function normally. In front of him is a difficult struggle to return to his regular physical activities and regular work. The disease is severe, but we have to fight. It's funny to hear someone say Serbia didn't welcome the crown. Is there a country in the world ready to welcome the crown? Is that maybe China that's a big country, and we remember the pictures of how it was in China? Is that maybe the U.S.? And we remember pictures of patients lying on the floor of the hospital because they had nowhere to stay. Is it possible that Belgium sent her most difficult patients to Germany because she couldn't provide them with care? I don't mean to say that these are bad systems, but I want to say that Serbia is neither the most developed nor the richest state but has taken very seriously the fight against the crown. As soon as the crown appeared in our country, we took responsibility. In the Cup of the City where I work, in our hospital there was an immediate establishment of an ambulance in the home of health and hospital, the covid and novid patients were separated, the staff of patients was opened, all the equipment was obtained, all the assistance was provided to patients. Respirators have been obtained, and we all remember how they said these respirators were too high, that we wouldn't need so much, and today Serbia with this loan that we're going to vote to get more respirators that are needed to treat patients. Serbia has at all times had medications according to all the world's protocols for the treatment of the crown. When it was chlorokin, Serbia acquired matter to produce chloroquin. When there was a shortage of alcohol in Europe, Serbia started producing alcohol. When Europe lacked a scuffander and masks, Serbia acquired scuffanders and masks. Serbia has welcomed this, but no one could hope for this, because for this one pandemic that affects the whole world, you have to prepare for years. During the time we had, we were super-prepared. I have to remind you only of the period in 2012 and before the health care seemed. Just a few sessions ago, MP Jovanovic reminded us that in Panchev, a gynecology pigeon flew a patient into a room. We remember the fallen walls, we remember the wake, we remember the beds where the patients were lying. After 2012, we invest in health care. We've started rebuilding all homes of health and hospitals. We have launched huge and expensive projects such as the Clinical Center of Serbia, the Nis Clinical Center, such as Tirsh's clinic. Buying out the place I came from in the '80s started building a big health center. The health centre was left alone, but with the support of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, Minister of Health and a great pawn of MP Darko Laketić, we managed to restart the construction of the health center, and next year we are completing a modern, modern health center that will extend to over 30 thousand square metres, and that will not only give to the Buyers but also to all Toplicians the most modern care and help in the fight against all diseases. The Crown will pass, but the most important thing is for us to remain human. I say everyone has the right to believe or not to believe in the crown, but no one has the right to endanger the lives of others. That is why I call on all citizens of Serbia that this is a period when we cannot share. This is the period when we have to stand by each other and when we need to support each other. Please, in front of all health workers, please wear masks, follow the measure, take care of yourself, but take care of others even more. The vaccine is the only way to beat the crown, because it will create immunity collectives, but until the vaccine comes, the only thing we have left is us and our healthcare workers. Please take care of yourself and others and wear masks and follow the measure. Believe me, it's not easy for me, eight months already, I'm wearing a scuffander and a mask and me and my colleagues are sweating at plus 40 and minus ten degrees. It's not easy, but we know why we're doing it. So please, you help us, and I promise you in front of all health care professionals that we will continue 24 days, day and night to fight for all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u823	I thank Mr. Peter and also congratulate you on your first appearance at the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr. Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u824	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as President Dragan Markovic Palma said at the beginning of this session today, the JS parliamentary group will support this set of laws on recognition, approval, ratification, whatever you want, with the relevant financial institutions for a number of reasons. First, these agreements concern the concrete health of Serbian citizens and will help fight the Kovida-19 epidemic. The second reason is that this set of laws concerns many local self-government and concrete benefits for Serbian citizens and concerns improving the infrastructure of local self-government in water supply areas, waste water processing, districts of improvement of district heating and all of this, by retaining a good credit rating of the Republic of Serbia, which we know the Moodys agency kept at BA3 level on 2 September 2020. Also, the Fitch rating agency gave a rating to the Republic of Serbia BB+ in September. Both agencies, of course, predict a stable Serbia rating with a tendency, if the economic crisis caused by the Kovida-19 pandemic ends, improvements in credit ratings. This is important and it is important that the state of public debt and public finances in Serbia is also well, because according to a monthly report by the Public Debt Administration in September, Serbia had 57.6% of GDP in public debt. All this says that these stable finances are a good basis to continue, on the one hand, fighting the coronary virus and good crisis management caused by the pandemic of the virus's coronary, and on the other hand to continue building infrastructure in local self-government and thus to improve the quality of life of people in Serbia. I would say that the Republic of Serbia has managed the crisis well, when it comes to the pandemic of the coronary virus, but that this battle and crisis management, wanting on the one hand to preserve the health of the population and the lives of the population, and on the other hand to keep that economic and economic activity of Serbia, this battle against the crown simply costs. Hence the two contracts with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It's gonna help that fight, because we saw that we had more than 21,000 tested yesterday. It is very important for regional laboratories in Serbia to be able and thus help the health system, but also citizens themselves who are being tested, get fast, quality and valid information about whether they are infected with the coronary virus or not, or other symptoms. As for this agreement with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, related to water supply and wastewater treatment, I believe that 60 local self-government will have a great benefit. Not only do I think I do, but I do, because the Jagodina I came from finished the job two years ago. In fact, we've made a complete reconstruction of the source, increased capacity, replaced the engine-pump station, replaced 12 kilometers of cement-absorbed pipelines, and Jagodina thus provided a permanent supply of very high-quality drinking water to its inhabitants. It's one of the benefits they deserve and they should have all the municipalities. For that reason, this agreement is very, very good. What I was about to say is that, as far as these energy efficiency agreements are concerned, they will not only improve the quality of heating of the population, they will not only save the budget of the Republic of Serbia and individual local self-government, but will, above all, improve the environmental situation and reduce pollution from existing heat, and thus also improve the quality of life of the Serbian population. For all these reasons, the JS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u825	Thank you. Next is Mr. Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u826	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, at the very beginning, I would like to take the opportunity to, in accordance with the situation in which both the world and our country are located, ask all citizens to be responsible, to respect the relevant legal regulations, to adhere to all the mandatory and recommended measures of the Crisis Staff and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce the pressure on our health system, to preserve the lives and health of people and to deal with this monster that has affected us all as quickly as possible. In his presentation, the minister presented several basic facts on the proposal for a law on the confirmation of loans to mitigate the consequences of the Kovida-19 pandemic and I would not repeat myself with what has already been said. This legislative proposal is absolutely in line with all the objectives and efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against the consequences of the crown of the virus, and it is overly focused on preserving the lives and health of citizens, because who only a year ago could assume that we will be affected by such an epidemic, that today we will need a hundred times more resources for certain types of medical equipment and medicines than under some normal circumstances. A good example of how burdened our health system is, last night during a visit to the hospital in Belgrade was given by President Aleksandar Vukic when he said that for one day we spend oxygen as normally would in six months, so that this loan is a kind of support for our health system and therefore it is necessary, but for a complete success in the fight against any pandemic, and so on, it is necessary to have a stable health system, and today our country definitely has it thanks to systematic, continuous renewal and strengthening, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, which, we agree, is not easy, since before 2012, our health system was destroyed and devastated. If so, it is fortunate that this monster did not strike us eight or nine years ago when it was in power that citizens today must not go to elections because of the miserable support of the citizens. Those who, in a difficult situation like this today, are bothered by the financial support of the state of economy and the population, by those who are bothered by the best economic outcome in Europe, by those who are in the way of new roads, bridges, hospitals, those who have spent their time in power for personal wealth. So, if this pandemic had occurred in 2010 or 2011, I am convinced that we would have far more deaths, that the infected would have nowhere to be placed, that doctors would have to choose who to put on the respirator because we lacked everything from respirators to other medical equipment. I will remind you, when the SNS took responsibility for Serbia's lead in 2012, the state was facing bankruptcy, only after severe economic reforms, the fiscal consolidation measure, carried out by the government, then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, would stabilise public finances and start the way of dynamic economic progress. There was a period in which we became a leader in the region to attract foreign investment, i.e. a period in which numerous capital projects were realised, and many more were started. Just when it comes to healthcare, it would take me quite a while to list all of those hospitals and clinical centres that were built or reconstructed, starting with the new Nis Clinical Centre, then the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, where the reconstruction of certain parts is still under way, without counting further hospitals across cities across Serbia. An example of how responsible authorities, led by SNS, treats health care, treats citizens' health, not only during this pandemic, I have my city, in Loznica, where four months ago the reconstructed departments of internal, breast, neurology were opened, investing close to four million euros where a brand new medical equipment was obtained, a new scanner. But that's not the end of it. Work was continued on the construction of a surgical-gynecological block that began in 1987. So for more than three decades, no single dinar has been invested in a prison hospital, all the way to Alexander Vukic. While the former authorities were unable to preserve what they inherited, they were also able to steal money even from sick children, and the days to abuse this pandemic through their tycoon media for political purposes for cheap political points, hoping that Serbia will go through this battle as far as possible. Today, we are fighting the consequences of the virus's corona by building two new Kovid hospitals in Belgrade and Krusevec, for which the state has singled out more than 80m euros in such difficult circumstances, with them receiving the first patients in just a few days, so that we will remove the risk of anyone remaining without being adequately taken care of. We must also be proud of the fact that Kovid Hospital in Belgrade will be built within a record period of less than four months, and until recently we could only see such ventures on television in China or other developed countries. In these two hospitals we will have 420 respirators, and I am pretty sure that so many respirators before 2012 did not have a total in all of Serbia. We are fighting against the consequences of the virus's crown by improving health care workers' working conditions by increasing their wages. Also, I would like to remind you that last year, health workers had a profit increase of 10-15%, and this year we increased our salaries to healthcare workers by an additional 10%, that several days ago, healthcare workers received one-off aid from 10,000 dinars, and they are expected to receive a new increase in profits from New Year's Eve. What country under such difficult circumstances, during the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, was able to increase profits? I may not be informed enough, but I haven't heard of it. This is just an indicator of how serious state leadership, led by President Alexander Vukic, is being led by a smart economic policy, a smart health policy, and it is no wonder, and it is no accident that we are more successful in this fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus than many other countries that are richer and more developed than we are. By confirming this loan, we will give an additional impulse to our health system, allowing for an even more effective fight against the coronary virus. With that I can say that I will, as well as all my colleagues, support this loan, because for us, for the SNS, for Serbia in this fight against the crown of the virus, there is no other option than victory in the fight against its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u827	Thank you. I also congratulate you on your first address to the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr. Gjorge Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u828	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have before us a number of draft laws concerning loan agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, as well as the German banks from Frankfurt to Maine and the agreement concerning the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, stemmed from outstanding foreign savings. At the very beginning, let me say, as our President Dragan Markovic Palma said at the beginning of this debate, the JS parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of all the draft laws in this united debate. What I must say at the very beginning, Minister, is a very important bill. When I say "very important", on the one hand, an additional fight against the Coronal Viral-19, but we are very interested in the success of all these projects, so energy efficiency on the one hand, on the other hand, the waterway, sewerage infrastructure in over 60 cities, but here I come from Kragujevac. We have, like, a water treatment plant that's 30 years old. We are already in the process of ending this, and I hope that this credit arrangement will lead to the finally Kragujevac next to Cačka, which we have heard and the Nis that we seem to have here, finally getting this important thing, to say, water treatment plant. But when we talk about all this, I have to say, we are in a difficult situation with regard to the whole world, affected by the coronary virus. Unlike many major economies of countries that are practically, I can say freely, on my feet I have to say that Serbia is in a much better situation and by the IMF, as they say. Minister, we're at this point in public debt at between zero and minus one, which is to say... The economic downturn, I apologize, is between zero and minus one. So that's, it seems to me the best result we'll have at the end of the year. All this gives us the right to have a salary increase at the end of the year, to have an increase in pensions. And what you said about "Serbia 2025" we have what we predicted to pay is 900 euros and pensions are 440 euros. We have, on the other hand, fiscal and monetary stability, and we should say, that Serbia is an absolute leader in attracting foreign investment, to say that in the region of the total number of investments Serbia attracts as much as 60%, or to say that at the end of this year around these investments will be about 2.5 billion euros, approximately Serbia. On the other hand, we built 350km of highways, we build another 250km, but what is important to us – we have unemployment at a historical minimum of 7.3%. All of these are the results of Serbia's responsible policy. When it comes to laws that are on the agenda, the first two laws relating to the further fight against the coronary virus, the first proposal for a loan between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is 100m dollars and is aimed at the further fight against the crown of the virus and the second loan between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, it is a 200m-euro credit arrangement, I must say that at the moment it is significant funds. As for the Development Bank, this certainly isn't the only funds, I'll remind you only of the hospital in Tirshaw, of the many infrastructure projects we've done thanks to previous credit arrangements. What's important here for me, I'm running out of time, and just for a few more seconds, is that Serbia has proved to be a responsible state in the fight against the crown of the virus, which thinks about every citizen. On the other hand, the 700m euros envisioned by all these international agreements will lead to an additional better fight against the crown of the virus, but also new infrastructure projects in many local self-governments, and more than 60 local self-governments. Of course, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these draft laws from a united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u829	I'd like to thank my colleague George. The word is Milica Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u830	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as part of this second principled search, the first thing I will put an accent on in my presentation today is the points of the agenda concerning the currently burning world and also our problem – the crown of the virus. I can freely say that our country is one of the few countries in the world that had a good starting base to give a bold response to a challenge called the Coronal Virus. In this crisis situation, over 10% of GDP has been allocated to help the economy and economic operators. Also, at the very beginning of the pandemic, all healthcare workers were paid permanent wages, and in June all citizens of the Republic of Serbia were paid one-off aid of 100 euros. In the course of last week, another additional one-time aid of 10,000 dinars was provided to our healthcare workers, in gratitude for all the sacrifice and all the commitment in the work they provide in this very difficult situation. The difficult economic reforms that President Aleksandar Vucic carried out in the period from 2014, resulted in Serbia having a permanent surplus in the budget for the last four years. From that surplus, we are building and maintaining Serbia today. From this surplus today, there are two coves of the hospital – one in Belgrade, the other in Kruševec, which, you will agree with me, at the moment when the coronary virus reaches its peak in the number of patients, will really mean a lot and be of great help to our entire health system. In a record number, two fast testing laboratories have been opened since the first infected person in Serbia with the coronary virus, and this agreement here on the agenda provides for the completion of two other regional Kovid 19 laboratories, one under the Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad, and the other within the Kragujevac Clinical Centre. These funds will also establish an epidemiological checkpoint at airports in Belgrade and Nis, in order to reduce the introduction of a virus corona by those citizens who have been infected into our country. In addition to the funds that will be allocated to resuscitate the effects of the virus's coronary, part of the funds will be used to obtain new medical equipment, new medical scanners, new, more modern hospital beds, as well as new sanitary vehicles. The "Serbia 2020-2025" plan made it clear that Serbia will spend hundreds of millions of euros in health development over the next five years. But at this point, what's most important is that we all need to work and participate in preserving our health system, and we can only do so by taking each individual responsiblely and in accordance with the prescribed measures of the Crisis Staff and acting. In addition to this health care, our representatives of the government are constantly considering protecting our entire economic system, protecting every job, helping our citizens, therefore, comprehensively on the development and progress of our country. With that in mind, other agreements here on the agenda today envision the construction of a pipeline from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary, as well as to the borders with other neighbouring countries. What is very important here is that Serbia will be able to earn about 185m dollars annually by building a pipeline when it becomes a transit country for gas. Also, some of the funds for these agreements are also planned to improve water supply to as many as 60 municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, as well as to build three wastewater treatment plants. I come from the municipality of Raca, a municipality that in the past three years, with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you ministers managed to build for its citizens a water treatment facility, and to build two new wells, so that there will be no restrictions in the water supply of citizens during the summer period. Also, we built a wastewater treatment plant. Of course, our plans aren't to stop there. The next period provides for the reconstruction of a complete water network of 12km in length, for which we have already done project-technical documentation, as well as a complete reconstruction of the fecal sewerage network, as well as the reconstruction of the rain drain network. At the very end, by countering all this I have brought forth, certainly aware of the need for further combating the coronary virus, as well as for fighting for the further uninterrupted development of our country in all fields, I propose that all MPs support the proposals of the laws that the government and the ministry have referred to us for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u831	Thank you, colleagues. And I congratulate you on your first public appearance in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Next up is counterpart Boris Bursac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u832	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, it is clear to all that the whole world, and thus Serbia faces the greatest monsters of today, an epidemic of the coronary virus, which poses a huge threat to the country's medical system, as well as to the countries in general. How alarming the situation tells us about the number of infected, as well as information that says that hospitals have been filling up dramatically in recent days, and according to Health Minister Zlatibor Loncar, among the infected are increasing numbers of doctors and nurses. So our country's health system is in a very difficult situation, but as such it is far better than the situation in the region and some countries in Europe. As evidence of this finding, Serbia has made huge progress on the world and European health rankings, and at this point we have managed to overcome as many as 14 EU member states, thanks to the responsible policy of our country and our government, which concerns the reconstruction of clinical and hospital centres in Nis, Belgrade, Vojvodina, the construction of new Kovid hospitals in Zemun and Kruševec, as well as through investments in medical equipment. The state has been working seriously, building and investing so far. The subject of today's session is very important agreements, of which I would like to apostrophe these very agreements regarding the mitigation of the Kovid 19 pandemic. What is very important is that these agreements are in line with our government's pre-set goals, primarily with the goal of the number one government at the moment, which is to fight the crown of the virus and strengthen the health system. So these agreements have a clear objective, and this is a quick and effective response to the threat posed by Kovid 19, as well as strengthening the national health system. These agreements will allow buying through the necessary equipment, building new capacities, training and equipment of health workers who are on the frontline of the fight against this dangerous disease, building two new Kovid laboratories within KCV, as well as in KC in Kragujevac, with the capacity of a thousand samples per day, thus increasing the overall capacity of testing for Serbia as a whole. We also allow this agreement to integrate all SARS Kovid-laboratory into a health information system that would ensure the occurrence of results and create a comprehensive electronic control system over Kovid 19. Also, quick testing is being set up at Nikola Tesla Airport in Belgrade and Konstantin Veliki Airport in Nis. These agreements, namely these loans, strengthen our country's health system by establishing and renovating specialised units in selected hospitals. We restore and equip certain homes of health, provide full support to intensive care units in hospitals, providing the necessary medical equipment and training for health teams. Also, I would also like to ask the Minister, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, as well as all the other members of the Crisis Staff, that, if possible, they do not decide to close and reduce the working hours of the catering facilities, so that these people do not lose their income. Gentlemen, only in Belgrade does 40,000 people in hospitality, so that additional measures in this respect would be harmful to themselves, but also to this shaken economy. Our economy has to work. I quote President Vukic – in order to raise enough money for healthcare professionals, for medical equipment, for the construction of hospitals, as well as for many other infrastructure projects, we have voted in the previous days to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Population and with it, in addition to the Sanitary Inspectorate, to include the Communist Inspectorate and the Communist militia in control against pandemic measures. So, in the field, we have enough people to justly express the measures we have taken, but I ask you that because of those who did not comply with the prescribed measures, who filled the clubs and the cafes, you do not close those who respected the measures, and those who violated them with a nice hammer of justice on their head, lab and sharp measures in their pocket. I repeat, we sign these agreements to prevent further spread of the epidemic and thus preserve the lives and health of people. I myself, and I hope my colleagues support and we will vote in favour of these agreements in the hope that they will help fight for strong, modern and healthier Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u833	I thank and congratulate you on your first performance. Next is counterpart Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u834	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, set six basic goals before the election of the government, Aleksandar Vukic. One of them at the moment, probably and most importantly, is the preservation and fight for Serbia's citizens' health. Accordingly, today we have a set of draft laws, including those relating to the relief of the pandemic caused by Kovid 19. The current power headed by President Aleksandar Vukic corresponds adequately, timelyly and responsibly to all the challenges created during the pandemic of the coronary virus and in response to Kovid 19, Serbia is fifth in Europe. It is also important to invest the state in health care in which the state has invested as much as 600m euros so far. This greatly improved the standard of doctors and all employees of healthcare workers and, apart from an increase in salaries of 10% to healthcare workers, a one-time cash aid of 10,000 dinars was recently paid, as gratitude symbolic for all that they had done in the past months and continued to work for all of us. In the previous period, i.e. the recent rebalancing, the state singled out nine billion dinars this year for the construction of two new Kovid hospitals, one in Belgrade that was visited last night by President Aleksandar Vukic and announced the reception of new patients as early as December and another in Krusevec, where reception was expected in mid-December. Also planned is the continuation of the reconstruction of a large number of homes of health and general hospitals throughout Serbia, and so is the plan and reconstruction of the General Hospital in Piroth, where I come from. This year we can deal with the crisis and the state takes on a large part of the burden on itself only because in previous years we led a responsible policy with Alexander Vukic, implemented significant reforms and thus achieved a surplus in the budget over the previous four years. That both health and economic well-response in these challenging times has witnessed and the smallest decline of 0.5% per IMF estimates, and we hope to be at a minus 0.1% drop and that next year Serbia will record further economic growth. This shows that our economy has become resilient, that we have found the right measure, when you have a 10-15% downturn in the economy of even the great world powers. Despite all the difficulties of unemployment in Serbia continued to fall, so we record in the second quarter of this year at 7.3% of the unemployment rate, which is certainly a record-breaking historical minimum. We can also boast that the average salary in July in Serbia for the first time has exceeded 510 euros. It should certainly be noted that we are one of the few countries that will increase pensions of 5.9% in January and earning in the public sector of 6.6% in the Swiss formula, thus raising the standard of living for citizens, and thus we will be closer to achieving the goal foreseen by the national investment plan "Serbia 2020-2025", which will raise the average profit by the end of 2025, while the average pension will be around 440 euros. In this set of draft laws, there are laws aimed at responding to the threat posed by Kovid 19, as well as strengthening the national health system to achieve a level of alertness in Serbia. To respond best to this difficult situation, the state has also increased the supply of consumer medical materials and equipment, including protective equipment, masks, gloves, disinfectants, fans, respirators, medications and all that is needed daily in a highly burdened health system. It was necessary to access the equipment of temporary hospitals for the reception of sick, construction and renovation of laboratories, so one of the projects will allow the establishment of two additional regional Kovid 19 laboratories, one within the framework of the KCV in Novi Sad and the other within the KC in Kragujevac with a capacity of 1,000 samples per day, which will certainly increase the testing capacity in Serbia to more than 9,000 tests per day. The integration of laboratories into the health information system will be possible in order to create a comprehensive electronic control system over Kovid 19th in the framework of the project will also enable the establishment of rapid testing at Nikola Tesla airports in Belgrade and Constantin the Great in Nis, as well as at selected border crossings for passenger traffic. In order for the state to continue fighting with Kovid 19 even more strongly and to continue investing in our country, I will vote and support along with my fellow MPs from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic - for our children proposed a set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u835	Thank you, colleagues. I also congratulate you on your first performance. Next is Mr. Nebojsa Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u836	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, gives me the joy of the bill that despite the difficult situation with the coronary virus facing the whole world, including our country, Serbia will manage to preserve its financial stability. We will fight to preserve the lives and health of our citizens, but we must also fight to provide funds to continue investment in road infrastructure, to build new highways, waterways and sewerage networks, to provide funds to restore schools, hospitals, kindergartens, health homes and all of those things that the president defined through the plan "Serbia 20-25". Life can't stop, we have to move on, we have to fight, the country has to continue to rebuild and the country has to continue to develop. I come from Smederevska Palanka, a municipality that was economically devastated four years ago, a municipality where all public enterprises, institutions, schools, kindergartens were in an uninterrupted blockade, a municipality where due to accumulated debts, street lighting was excluded. The thing that kept the citizens of this community the most is that for decades they lived back with several days and hours of water restrictions. The municipal budget was in charge of over three billion dinars, which amounted to nearly three years of budgets, and Minister Sinisa Mali would agree with me if I said it was legally possible at that time that the municipality would be declared bankrupt. Today, just by handing over the work and pawning of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, Finance Minister and all resolution ministries, Smederjevska Palanka breathes full of lungs. Over a billion dinars have been invested in road infrastructure in Smederjevska Palanca, today in Smederjevska Palanca citizens live for three years without restrictions in water supply, and the bill will provide funds to continue investment in the reconstruction of the Stefan High General Hospital in Smederjevska Palanca, which amounts to over 25m euros and builds 5,000 squares of the new medical block. What will certainly change the lives of the citizens of this municipality completely is already on the way into Smederjevska Palanka, which is a newly built magnificent Korean company that will start working in March and employ 1,000 people. This is not a big deal just for Smederjevska Palanka, this is a big deal for the entire Danube district, a big deal for Serbia. You know, I have to say one thing now, when you pass and you're a participant in all of this that I've been saying, you have one wish, and that's to invite all those on-call critics, to invite opposition MPs who are bothered by various laws, those critics who are in the way of new hospitals, new roads, new highways, I invite them to come to Smederjevska Palanka, to stand in front of these people and ask them -- sorry, how did you ever have water in the summer, how was it when you were disfellowshipped, to stand in front of mothers who owed over three million dinars on behalf of unpaid benefits for your first child. Come, gentlemen, stand in front of these people, and then give us a lecture. I pointed out all of this because I want Smederovska Palanka to be an example of good practice, how implementation of the outlined Plan Serbia 2025, but also to be an example of good practice that President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia can equally take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they come north or south, from small or large cities and municipalities. The bill also provides funds to monitor the development budget policy. These are the funds where the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will feel directly through new jobs, through higher salaries and pensions, they will feel through a renewed and far better quality health system, as we have today compared to the one we had just five or 10 years ago. This is exactly the kind of policy that we will provide for such a policy, and we will provide unreserved support here in the National Assembly. In the end, I would only say that I did not bring all this out just as an MP for the ruling party who won incredible support in the previous elections, I also said as a resident of this country who is deeply convinced that the programme, as well as these laws, are generations of the general prosperity of our country and of all our citizens. In the voting day of the parliamentary group I belong to, as I personally, we will be happy to support the draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u837	Thank you. Congratulations on your first performance. The next speaker is counterpart Svetlana Miljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u838	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is now ahead of us with a set of laws, perhaps the two most important at the moment. In front of all of us, in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our President Aleksandar Vukic has set one of six priorities, which is the fight against the crown of the virus and the preservation of the health and life of all citizens. With this set of laws confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Development and the European World Bank, Serbia will get an additional boost for everything it has done so far. We remember, at the beginning of the coronary pandemic, when the pandemic faced not only our country, but all the countries of the old and new continent, as Serbia headed with President Aleksandar Vukic responded to this challenge. She responded by getting all medical and protective personal equipment for our healthcare professionals in record time. She was able to obtain PCR tests, antigen tests and serological tests to identify and confirm this virus. She managed to get everything that maybe we haven't had in years. We had no simple reason for Serbia being on the health scale on the European health index in 2009 in an infamous 35th place. We shared that 35th place with Romania and Latvia. The responsible policy of Aleksandar Vukic as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia since 2014, and later as its president, Serbia has really climbed 18th place at lightning speed. We are now in front of 14 EU countries. That's what our citizens need to know. Our citizens should know that in 2009, unfortunately, for the treatment of children with rare diseases, we have allocated 20 times less money than Serbia now stands out in 2020, that is, in 2019. Now we're giving out two and a half billion dinars for the treatment of 200 children with rare diseases. In 2009 we sent only eight children to treat rare diseases. That's what Serbian citizens need to know, that our president's visions are a modern and responsible state of Serbia. What we also need to know and what we need to remind ourselves of, as well as our citizens, is the fact that in 2009, we did not invest in our health system. Our hospitals were ruined, health workers and other health workers were very dissatisfied. We didn't have an X knife, we didn't have a gamma knife. We couldn't treat our patients, or insurance. Today this situation has changed. With the country's responsible policy, the finance ministry, the country's president, Serbia is where it is. According to a survey by the Vienna International Institute of Economics, we will have a GDP decline of only 2.5% in 2019. It is four times less than the Republic of Croatia will have. That's what we should be proud of. The state of Serbia built two national reference laboratories for the identification and diagnosis of the virus's coronary in record time. One is in Belgrade, and the other is in Nis. These are these famous labs we call the fire-eye. Their test capacity is over 1500 a day. What the state of Serbia did is that, you remember at the beginning of the April 19th epidemic, three days before the deadline, it reconstructed, or restored, and built a VMC building on Karaburma which is a covid hospital. What the state of Serbia has done is that within a record period of less than four months, it has built two hospitals that will now be the co-video of the hospital as the pandemic continues, one in Batajnica, and the other in Krusevec. The hospital bed capacity of these hospitals will be over 1,500. In these hospitals, about 2,000 health workers will work, both doctors and medical staff. This is Alexander Vukic's policy – a responsible, modern and decent state of Serbia. That's why today we're witnessing an attack on our president, on his children, on his entire family. We're witnessing all sorts of things, from what's-his-name. The joint opposition, ordered, malicious texts, so the united opposition is looking forward, unfortunately, to every dead person, laughing at us fighting the crown and fighting the best in Europe, we have the lowest mortality rate and the largest number of Serbian citizens tested in the region. What's important is to point out that a set of these proposals that are ahead of us today will improve our fight against Kovida-19. What I'm trying to say is that surrender is not an option and that we, together with President Alexander Vukic, are going to fight for every life of our citizen. Long live the citizens of Serbia, long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u839	Thank you, colleague, and congratulations on your first performance. The next speaker is Mr. Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u840	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs and gentlemen of the people, and primarily citizens of Serbia, before the opening words and the beginning of my presentation, I want to support today's fight against violence against women and all the ladies in this house to wish a lot of success, not to be abused, because I know that many are. There's been a lot of talk in the media lately about attacks on individuals and ladies happening, and I'm against it right now. I am also against the fact that certain ladies, the former president of the Assembly, are physically attacked, the individual MPs of the City Assembly, are physically attacked, the MPs of this House and this Parliament. I don't support any violence against women because I was raised by lioness women, fighters. This time of full support for all ladies, the backdrops of this society, those whose merit is to be mothers and size, as mothers and as women to persist in society, and hence SNS policy Alexander Vukic is that gender equality, where 50% of women are in all local self-governments, including the highest state functions and this sacred home. Dear Minister, it is my great honor to finally have the opportunity to speak to you, not only about the past years during which you have fought together with President Alexander Vukic and talked about the country's progress, the visions you have had and those postulates you have always followed, especially those respected by us economists – planning, organising, managing, controlling. You fought, you were attacked, your family was attacked, satanized, your brother satanized, along with the brother of the president of Serbia, but still you had that hope, were cold and brave and always said – it will be better. They were laughing. I'm from Chukarica. Now, Kukarica is what is, a serious, large, magnificent part of Belgrade, where Kosutnjak is the lungs of Belgrade, where walls, buildings are built, works, which by population has 200,000 inhabitants, the size of the third municipality in Belgrade. But unfortunately, what's burdening me is that, and now I'm going to go back to these topics about the herd and why we need to support these laws, there are the most people in Belgrade who are sick, and we know that Belgrade is the most critical place. I get hundreds of messages a day from friends, people I don't even know, who cry out for places, what to follow. The president who's constantly on the run for the mischievous media, who, I have no doubt, has preserved their positions and put their children away, and brought other people out into the street, exposed them to this evil, this pandemic, and I know it from personal experience, because I lost my parents during this pandemic. Maybe you shouldn't speak like this, but I don't know otherwise, like a sportsman and like someone who loves this country where he works. I love her with all my heart. Maybe I can't love her as president of Serbia, because he's given everything for Serbia, and if he's appealing to everyone to stay in their homes, to follow the measure, for the sake of those health workers, if we're making the last effort... Minister Sinisha Mali has shown very well how he has the finances. He was a remarkable businessman and a gentleman before all this. He ran into this fight, took a chestnut out of the fire in 2014, when after the criminal government, the previous criminal government of Dragan Gilas, who destroyed and devastated our budget to the last dinar, succeeded in restoring it and returning it as mayor. What did he do with the finances? Well done for the London Agreement! As an economist, I couldn't imagine, in 2011, I couldn't imagine that we would meet, for me, the Belgrade Stock Exchange was a miracle. And now that I see us on the London list... Let's move on, we're not stopping here! Corona did stop us. Serious measures have been taken. These laws, signed with the European Union and the Council of Europe, are important because they allow it to continue to strengthen the health system, preserve people, because nothing is as valuable as life. Kovid-19 daily takes life. A lot of our colleagues are sick, a lot of people we know. So we must also focus on donations. Thank God that such a policy was led by President Alexander Vukic, his team, the Prime Minister, that we can now have that help, and not only of the European Union, but of all, and of Russia, China, America, the whole world united against this monster. Here, we have an example, for the first time in history, a Russian plane landed on American soil. So in this monster, we all need to be unique. Unfortunately, individuals of the former regime who don't understand, who have donated, donated their pockets, unlike us who bought thousands of respirators, are now looking to get the vaccine. I see now, I follow the trends of monetary and I see that negotiations are being conducted whether to buy a $25 or $27 vaccine. The International World Health Organization is about to be below $25. Also, what is very important for the development and efficiency of the Serbian state is also this Council of Europe in terms of efficiency, i.e. the Framework Agreement between the Bank and the Council for the Development of Europe, the Republic of Serbia is a signator of the Energy Treaty, and energy is something that is very important and profitable in the state of Serbia. What Professor Kovacevic said the other day on the Fiscal Council – we must rely on industry. Industry comes from that energy. I'm just going to give you one benign example. The main goal, why invest, why support this Energy and Energy Efficiency Act is one of the most profitable investments in the world at all. And why is that? From the point of view of saving, preserving the environment and natural resources as well as significant and perhaps crucial air pollution, we also protect nature. But I can add, in the context of the trade, it puts attention to the latest sun protection. Research shows that most of the countries in the world spend more energy on cooling than on heating, and the best solution in this area is as much as 65% of electricity savings. So the more energy we use, we spend, for example. to cool through the ercondish instead of the heat itself. Also, one of the basic postulates and the LD 2026 loan framework agreement, the objective of the attached priority investment funding programme and waste water treatment. Thank God Serbia is rich in water. If we have something of wealth, it's water, forest, but we're the richest because we have the best people in the world. With this in mind, the focus of the water supply component and the water supply networks is to establish and clean up wastewater for what it stands for, not only the EU, but all of us. For the component, the Ministry of Environment Protection has developed an indicative investment programme that includes priority infrastructure as well as the waste water sector and initial cost estimates for preparation and construction and supervision. I have no doubt that through this loan which, in my opinion, is extremely favourable and that I say as a banker, will contribute not only to the quality of water resources and in the context of climate and environmental conservation, but in any other sense. Also, the agreement between KfW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia. Financial support for the implementation of the project was generally agreed during the negotiations on development co-operation between the government of the Republic of Germany and the Serbian government. Using energy to the core reform of which the government of the Republic of Serbia is given the most important, the majority of the energy consumption in Serbia is right in the construction sector. It means building and municipalities and these complex building methods that are not innovative and that these old constructions are modern, as were stories and taboo races a few years ago that there will be also "Belgrade on the Water" and that there will be nothing there, but a naked backdrop. It's now one of the most beautiful parts of the city and the most beautiful. Also, these are projects of vital structural economic importance. The need for the continuity of the construction fund. The construction in Serbia is what they are. We have to rebuild them, we have to invest, but that's why we're producing a chain, and the economists know very well, a chain reaction where we're not just investing in that building, we're investing in this employee who gets paid. We also invest in the production of the food industry. Why? Because that worker has to eat, we invest in equipment, so, in the textile industry. So we chain-connect each other and contribute to getting through that investment and profit itself. I have no doubt all this will go well. The agreement, a loan between Frankfurt in phase five of the Republic of Serbia, is realised by the rehabilitation of Serbia's remote heating system. Why? To this day, through financial co-operation between the Federal Republic of Germany, which we will not underestimate, regardless of the drastic fall and impact of the crown, has also been prepared, but not as we do, but cannot compare of course us and Germany, although we are always more based somehow, I have seen these Scandinavian countries, as more powerful, however – no. Germany is extremely stable and strong. She's a serious supporter. A colleague just said, as many as 50,000 jobs the German company has here. Realisation of Serbia's system rehabilitation programme under a single debt arrangement for nature where we will help not only preserve the natural system that will reflect on Serbia's overall system and on all of us but also all the objectives defined by this effect, which is education, health, social protection, sport, selected units of local self-government that are necessary to continue to function. At the very end, what I would say is, once upon a time and since this crown is where I appeal and pray, as an individual, a servant of the people, like all of us here who serve the people, who are not MPs, I don't know, I may be a little funny, but here, later, watch the rerun and laugh. Why do we have to preserve the system? Tomorrow those children will come to these same parliamentary benches, they will be executives, directors, masters. We have to worry about them. We can't be selfish. That's what one doctor taught me while still a gentleman, a statesman, the largest Serbian statesman, who is being demeaned only worse because he's never better to disrespect me he told me when he was the first vice president of the government, approaches and says – well, you're in the SNS. I say yes. And he asks me, he says – you know that he was your party colleague then, your party president and he was extremely sick, but he came quickly and left. Okay? And he said, "I have told him and advised him, I have begged, I have begged him to stay home." I don't know how this is going to reflect, but I speak as it is from the heart. And he says -- Serbia can't wait. He told him to wait, and he told him – that Serbia cannot wait. That's why he trusted all of you and all of us, me and thank him. I don't know if I'm going to be able to justify my trust, but I'm going to do my best to fight for this people, to fight for this Serbia, to listen to everyone. Thank you again, Mr. Minister, for all your achievements, for everything you've done together at the head of Alexander Vukic, since 2014 until now. Thank you, thank you and this home, and I ask everyone to support this law and make sure that the covid bites, there are difficult moments for all of Serbia, let's keep each other safe and keep the nearest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u841	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, since the time of our break has come, we end the first part of the session. I thank you all for your contribution and constructiveity, and we're giving you a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we continue the debate, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish a mandate for the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Marina Mirkovic, Mini Kitanovic and Niko Kožovic, elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Sapic – Victory for Serbia. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Marina Mirkovic, Mini Kitanovic and Niko Kožovic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to prepare for their oath. The oath will also be sworn by MP Dragomir Karic, whose mandate has been verified at the constituent session of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. Repeat after me the text of the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of a national envoy with a dedicated, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf on the election for MPs and wish you successful joint work in this term. Thank you. We continue with the discussions. On my list here is Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u843	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, as regards the law on loan agreements with the German KfW Bank, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I believe that they are absolutely necessary and are another step towards progress. The agreements provide for the implementation of environmental protection projects, as well as the removal of the effects of the current pandemic. Projects that are the contents of these agreements are of paramount importance, from increasing energy efficiency, through the rehabilitation of public-purpose buildings and the education, health, social protection and sports sectors in Serbia's municipalities. Then, increasing the efficiency of the power supply system, addressing water supply and waste water treatment, which represents an exceptional opportunity for investment investments, while at the same time bringing Serbia a significant shift in the quality of the environment and protecting citizens' health. Serbia strengthens regional importance and the whole policy direction led by our government and President Vukic leads to increasing and improving Serbia's integration with the international market, speeding up economic development, modernisation and revitalisation of the old industries and fostering the development of new ones. It is true that this year 2020 has brought a lot of problems and consequences due to the current global pandemic in almost all aspects of society, especially business, but our public debt has remained under control and is currently at 57% of GDP. We return the loans taken by others, before us, and we have financial stability, and the confirmation is precisely large international investors who, thanks to the good direction of economic policy, see in Serbia a favourable business environment. The latest data tells us that Serbia has 13.1 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, of which the gold represents 14%, which means that foreign reserves are doubled from 2018. In the recovery of our economy, the state invested more than 10% of GDP this year. The country's economic progress depends on the government's determination and ability to implement essential reforms, and the Serbian government has also shown its determination and responsibility to citizens, on the increase in salaries and pensions this year and on the increases that expect us in the coming year, to plans, or projects that will be achieved through these loan agreements, which are primarily important and important to all of us because they allow new jobs, infrastructure development and a much better standard of living. In the end, agreements that involve financial support for efforts to curb the Kovid-19 pandemic will provide an even greater investment in Serbia's health system to mitigate and halt the spread of the virus's corona. We're facing a fight for public health today. Yesterday's data from nearly 7,000 Kovid positives are truly catastrophic and every day some new hospital becomes Kovid hospital. That's why I always remind you, so here and now I'm appealing to the citizens, to do everything together to continue living free and free again. We are left to endure together, because we will only win if we look out for each other. Sadness and fear whenever we hear how many newly ill and deceased, including our neighbors, friends, relatives, taught us that we must respect every measure and way that could bring us closer to victory. In the end, we are witnessing that our government and President Vukic are really doing everything to overcome this crisis as easily and painlessly as possible and continue to develop by maintaining the position we have fought for with great denials. That's why in voting day, I'm going to support all the proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u844	Thank you. Next reported MP to Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u845	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the National Assembly, the Honorable Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, before I begin today's presentation, I would like to express my sincere regret over the retirement of His Holiness, Mr. Irine, of our Patriarch SPC. It's one big loss for our country. As we know, at today's session, we are talking about proposals for a law on the conclusion and validation of certain agreements between renowned international institutions, agencies and banks and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These agreements are very important and necessary to implement some significant projects for our citizens and for our country. The project of an emergency response by the Republic of Serbia to the consequences of the Kovid-19 pandemic, envisions 92m euros for the purchase of state-of-the-art medical equipment, medical equipment, medicines, but also other sanitary equipment, as well as repromation. This 92m-euro loan also envisions the construction of two modern PCR laboratories at the University Centre in Kragujevac, as well as the University Clinical Centre in Vojvodina. Also, the next project is a project to finance the public sector in support of the government's efforts to mitigate the effects of the Kovid-19 virus pandemic. This project envisions an amount of up to 200m euros for the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment, vehicles and other means that will mean, above all, to our medical workers, but also to all our citizens. When I talk about citizens, here according to this project, it is primarily about our citizens over the age of 65 who need some medical attention. The next project, or energy efficiency programme in central government buildings, is a kind of green project. That so-called. The "green project" means that 28 central republican institutions, divided into five categories in Belgrade, receive new rujo. More specifically, their energy systems will thus be modernised and certainly this programme helps Serbia in Eurointegration, especially when it comes to the negotiating chapter on environmental protection. The water supply and wastewater treatment plants programme is one of the key projects. They envision a total of 300m euros, but I must mention one thing. So 200m euros is the amount of the loan, and 100m euros is from investments and donations from European institutions, which is a clear indicator of us leading a successful foreign policy, a successful economic policy. The European Union trusts our institutions and therefore donates us this much money. There are two segments in this program. The first segment concerns the reconstruction and reconstruction of already existing wastewater and sewer treatment systems, and the second section concerns the construction of new systems. It is estimated that nearly two million people in Serbia in 60 different municipalities will benefit directly from this project. Repeat, so two million people in Serbia will benefit directly. This is very important. The next project is a project to rehabilitate Serbia's district heating system, so-called "phase 5", as well as a project of energy efficiency in public-purpose facilities "phase 2". These two projects are in line with this agreement, i.e. the agreement with Germany's KfW Bank in May. It's an eminent bank that's working with our institutions. According to the first project, the amount of loans is estimated to be up to 30m euros and up to 20m euros respectively. What's the key to these two projects? As for the first project, the following cities will receive modernized remote heating systems. It is Belgrade, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Leskovac, Negotin, Nis and Pirot. As for the second project, between 50 and 60 facilities, school facilities, social protection facilities, sports grounds as well as facilities intended for primary health services, they will be fully reconstructed. More specifically, it is a matter of concrete reconstruction of wet knots, façade painting and setting up special insulation and thermal insulation systems. Thanks to this project, our youngsters will have the opportunity, especially those from the undeveloped, rural areas of Serbia to carry out their sport uninterruptedly to go to these new reconstructed schools, of course after the suppression of the Kovid virus pandemic – 19. The goal of all these projects and programmes is that the government has an even stronger and even faster response to the Covid - 19 pandemic to mitigate these consequences. I'll just remind you that about 70m euros is intended to build two special Kovid hospitals in Krusevec and Belgrade, more specifically Batajnica. Also, in the previous period our government has built a modern Clinical Center in Nis, and this Clinical Centre in Nis can be measured with the most significant not European, but world clinical centres and hospitals. Also, our healthcare workers have been paid one-time aid of 10,000 dinars, and this is certainly followed by an increase in salaries and pensions for them. As for the following projects, I would just like to conclude that this is how Aleksandar Vukic shows that he cares about all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that he has no price for the health of citizens. It is also important to stress that all these agreements and projects are only made possible because Serbia has managed to bring its public finances to such a pace that we are no longer as negative as we used to be, our economy is not falling. Aleksandar Vukic turned his team completely, made a huge turn when it comes to the Serbian economy and the Serbian economy. We only remember during the rule of these former yellow tycoons from 2000 to 2012, they took expensive loans and increased salaries and pensions without any real basis. Alexander Vukitch did another thing. Aleksandar Vukic has implemented strong, determined, strong fiscal consolidation measures to stabilise public finances. This shows his responsibility, responsibility to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what they're called. the austerity measures, we remember them all, and those measures certainly did not go in favor of our party. But he put the life of all our citizens ahead. Our citizens are the most important. Now, that's the key. Unlike these yellow tycoons who were exclusively thinking about their chairs. That's where you see the difference. When we talk about these economic successes, more specifically by the success of our monetary and fiscal policy, I would like to look briefly at a few key results over the past few years. Our GDP is growing steadily, and its growth is about 4.2 to 4.3% annually. Also, the National Bank of Serbia has been targeting our inflation for about 2% for seven years in a row, very successfully. And our dinar, a stable dinar course, follows all that, at 117 dinars per euro. The highest inflow of foreign direct investment has been the past few years of 3.8 billion euros. The reduction of the reference interest rate to 2.25% made it possible for young entrepreneurs, as well as cash and consumer loans to develop further credit activity among Serbian citizens. Various renowned financial institutions, such as FIC, Moodys, Standard & Poor's, have given us excellent results. They kept at least, if not increased, one of them also increased our credit rating to the level of investment credit rating, which is an excellent indicator in which the Serbian economy is heading. This is a very important point. That's not what our party or some of our experts said, this is what the world's renowned financial houses said, that we have positive, stable, credit ratings. Of course, J-P Morgan, IMF, IBRD, they all further confirmed it. This is all under the conditions of slow economic growth, i.e. economic growth in the euro area. We remember 2018, we had 1.9% growth, and in 2019 1.2%. It's a fall. USA in 2018 dropped from 2.9% to 2.3% in 2019. So, under the conditions of slow economic growth in Europe and the United States, we achieve excellent financial results. As far as fiscal policy is concerned, we have recorded the surplus for the first time since 2017 in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the growth of public debt has been halted. Even in these conditions of the pandemic of the coronary virus, this public debt does not exceed 60%, which is some limit to the Mastricht, but also to the convergence criteria of the European Central Bank. It's one of the convergence criteria. If we count then the necessary reduction in pensions in 2014, by 2020, they totaled 13.7 to 19.4%, and the salaries were constantly growing from 2016 to today, on a realistic basis, without jeopardising the fiscal stability of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, the minimum profit during the rule of the former yellow tycoon was, for example, about 20,000 dinars in 2012, and the minimum profit today is about 30,000 dinars. Now, that's the result of our policy. We also have a record low unemployment rate. In the second quarter, to be exact, in 2020 it was 78.3%, and during the former regime, for example from 2000 to 2012 it averaged 25%, in 2012 23.7%. Today - 7.3%. Now, these are all indicators of successful and stable fiscal and monetary policies. Thanks to the results achieved, we will be able to implement our "Serbia 2025" plan and that in 2025 the average salary is 900 euros and the average pension between 430 and 440 euros. Finally, I would like to mention another important result and congratulate Mr. Sinisha Malo and Mrs. Jorgovanka Tabaković, because we have successfully returned to the dollar-market of securities of value and after seven years of break we have managed to issue a bond with the goal of refinanceing that infomous bond, the overpriced bond, the terrible 2011 bond with very deadly rates. Today's six times the yield rate. Over 200 renowned foreign direct investors, foreign companies, holding companies have expressed their desire to buy that bond. Now, that's an excellent indicator of our policy. According to IMF projections over the next three years, we will have one of the highest growth rates in Europe, and all of this in the context of the crown crisis that hit us, unfortunately, during 2020. To conclude, the increase in minimum earnings, wages in the public sector, but also pensions are carried out on a realistic basis and in the conditions of the crisis, as well as the acquisition of medical equipment, the allocation of money to further increase the salary of our healthcare workers, as well as the equipment of the covid of hospitals all on a realistic basis thanks to the fiscal consolidation and stabilisation of public finances from 2014, all thanks to the idea of Alexander Vukic, the idea and vision of Alexander Vukic, who completely turned the negative economic trends that were present in Serbia from 2000 to 2012, as well as the efforts of the naturally governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorganka Tabaković, Minister of Cynthia Malo and our Prime Minister Ana Brnabić all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u846	Thank you. The word is Rajka Matovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u847	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a series of agreements that provide additional funds primarily designed to suppress the virus's corona, but also to the green economy and energy efficiency. This is another piece of evidence that our economy and our country are stable and that in an adequate way we treat the global crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronal virus. We have the best results in the environment, but also in Europe, both in terms of combating the coronary virus and in economic growth, and in this situation, we will have the smallest economic downturn in Europe. All of this is the result of stable finance and difficult economic reforms that began in 2014 by Aleksandar Vucic, and the governments subsequently realised them, as well as the good foreign policy of the president of the state. As I have stated, even two agreements concern the urgent response of the Republic of Serbia to Kovid 19. We have seen the superhuman efforts both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have made to ensure all necessary equipment to fight the crown of the virus, as well as the entire health system that has tried to preserve every life. At the moment the whole world was grabbed for medical equipment, we were able to provide a sufficient number of respirators, all the necessary medical and protective equipment, medications and everything that was necessary for our health system to respond adequately, and our health system has shown that we have the best doctors, the best nurses, the most professional bar that fights every day for each of us and we are immensely grateful to them. In the next period, we will strengthen our capabilities in the fight against the coronary virus. The construction of two new hospitals will be completed, we will establish two new laboratories, renovate and equip many homes of health and hospital, but we will also invest in health training, because investment in knowledge is the biggest investment. The health sector hasn't invested in nearly 20 years, and we all remember what hospitals looked like in 2010, and what they look like today. It is also very important to note that we will invest in a water and sewerage network in over 60 cities and municipalities in the next period. The devastating fact is that in the 21st century people do not have city drinking water, but also the fact that we treat wastewater. It is all in the programme and in line with the programme "Serbia 2020-2025". And we couldn't fix overnight everything that some of us have been destroying for decades, but by implementing the "Serbia 2020-2025" programme, we will try to provide every citizen with a better standard of living worthy of the 21st century. It's very important that money is withdrawn in both stages. I'll remind you of how much money was returned to the funds, because those before us who are now criticizing us were unable to spend the money that was provided to them by the projects. The difference between them and us clearly told us citizens in the elections. And precisely because of all the citizens and those who have shown us trust, but also those who are not, we will try to work even better and even more responsibly every next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u848	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u849	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers, Serbia has today come to the stage thanks to responsible policy by Alexander Vukic and SNS when we can turn to the topic of environmental protection and environmental development. The quality of the environment is one of the important issues when we talk about the quality of life of our citizens and one of the priorities of this government, which I absolutely support. For this reason, I will refer to the proposal for a law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia concerning the construction of a water supply system and wastewater treatment facilities, although I believe that the other proposed agreements are very important for our country. When we talk about this agreement, it is important to point out that the water sector for drinking and the wastewater sector requires large financial resources measured in billions of euros, which is why it is absolutely clear that co-operation with international financial institutions such as the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe is necessary. Realisation of this programme, whose total investment value is around 300m euros, will improve the water network in about 60 municipalities in Serbia, which will benefit close to two million citizens directly. Also, several wastewater treatment plants will be built, which will significantly affect the prevention of pollution in our rivers, which is also very important. It should also be pointed out that projects that will be covered by this loan are part of the 20-25 programme that President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic presented in December 2019 and which clearly shows that they are behind the set goals and are working hard to achieve them. As a member of the Committee on European Integration and as someone who supports Serbia's European integration process, I want to point out that some of the funding for this programme will be provided by the European Union's 40m-euro grants. When I talk about this, I must point out that the European Union has so far donated large funds to the environment and that its support in this area will only continue to grow, especially given the "green agreement" initiative adopted by the European Commission at the beginning of this year and whose aim is, among other things, a healthy environment and sustainable development. In this regard, I would like to point out that on 22 January this year, the European Commission has been given a negotiating position for Chapter 27 - the environment and climate change, and I hope that this chapter will soon be open. Finally, I would like to point out that by signing this agreement, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has once again made it clear that it is standing firmly on its European path and that it is moving with a speedy step towards resolving important and important issues from one of the most demanding negotiating chapters, Chapter 27. That is why in the voting day I will support this, but also all the proposed agreements, because they are all very important for the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u850	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u851	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of loan agreements, a total of seven agreements. Of course I won't talk about each individual, but I'll point. The figure in question is 700m euros, which will have enormous significance for the Republic of Serbia, and above all we will revitalise the economy. Then there's the infrastructure, we'll help local self-government. What's most important and what we're going to talk about today is the fight against Kovid 19 and the monster that's been the worst since 1945. I would add that there was another year that marked our life, which was in 1999, when we were bombed with nothing, when many people died, when it was a great pogrom over Serbs from our beautiful KIM province, when 200,000 people fled to native Serbia. Shame on you, it didn't happen again. As far as Kovida is concerned, we have a struggle with an enemy we don't see. Terrible, terrible. When I think of our doctors, good for our doctors. When they take off their scuffers like they look, I'm not feeling well. Why don't we be responsible, why don't we wear masks? Why aren't we wearing gloves? Why aren't we responsible for ourselves and others? Maybe someone's infected by us here today. Be correct, let's unite once against the common enemy, and that's Kovid 19. Yesterday, 7,000 people were infected, 38 people died. Guys, get serious. This is a bad disease. Until the vaccines come, we must act responsibly, responsibly, and only responsibly. As for this loan from international funds and banks, first of all one amount of loans is 200m euros and will be spent. The total project is 222 million, the Republic of Serbia will give 22 million, the rest goes to the Council of Europe Development Bank. Of course we'll spend everything to improve the fight against Kovid 19. This means that we will buy new respirators, build new hospitals, buy masks, skins for doctors, buy whatever is necessary, just to make any fewer victims in Serbia. That's how the responsible state works. At ten o'clock tonight, our president went to see the construction of a hospital in Batajnica, with a capacity of 930 seats. 250 of it will be intensive care. Also, a new hospital is being built in Kruševec, 500 places, 150 for intensive care. All possible hospitals are opening up. Today I hear that reconstructive and plastic surgery is going to be like the Kovid Center again. Let's be responsible, because we don't have people to treat ourselves anymore. There's still the VMA and the Emergency Center. Let's get serious. Speaking of health care, I really can't, not to mention the kind of health care we had in 2012, and then in 2014, a disaster. The health consumer index measured, 35 countries were in the game, we were in the last place about services, hygiene, everything, we're in 18 places today, and what it means is that we invest in health care, that we've done a lot of things, we've created a clinic center in Nis which is one of the most modern in that part of the world. He's got 16 O.R.s, he's got three O.R.s, he's got two E.R.s, so what if we didn't have that Clinical Center right now? They would all come to Belgrade, Belgrade no longer has people to send, send to Vrnjačka Banja, to Niška Banja. We created a project for a new clinical centre to be built in Kragujevac, we created a new project for a clinical centre to be built in Novi Sad. We are renovating throughout the Republic of Serbia's hospitals, health homes. The homes of health and hospital in Piroth are being renovated now, but also in Kikinda, Switzerland, everywhere, anywhere. That's how the responsible government works. I ask all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be responsible for our children. Kids are our future, and when we're with the kids, please, people, stop insulting our children. The children are angels, the children are our future and stop acting like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u852	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Nenad Barosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u853	Dear Presidents and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the set of laws on the agenda of today's National Assembly meeting in the best and unequivocal way is proving that the Republic of Serbia continues to fight successfully with this world's non-human who has further disintegrated itself and has entered into all areas of the state and social system, but it is proven to us that in such a delicate difficult situation the Republic of Serbia continues to invest, that it is making progress and that it is making concrete progress in these laws and these agreements in the field of health protection and environmental protection, specifically investing funds in the reconstruction and education of the health care system, as well as in water supply, treatment of waste water, sewers and digital heating systems, where all citizens of Serbia are to whom this will be well-being. The first law provides support to the health system to endure and to continue fighting the Kovid-19 pandemic and provide funds for the restoration, adaptation, reconstruction of certain hospitals, the construction of covid laboratories, as well as the acquisition of all appliances, equipment and everything necessary to further halt the spread of this pandemic and hopefully finally win over this monster. However, this investment is not just about fighting a pandemic that, of course, will eventually pass. It refers to something that will remain for our future generations, generations and futures to come. As early as 2014, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, then Prime Minister, noticed problems and lack of funds in the health care system and announced a billion-euro investment project in health care. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will be reminded of only a few segments that best described the situation in the health system of the Republic of Serbia until the moment of taking responsibility for the exercise of power by the SNS. So, in 2012 the European Parliament in Brussels presented a list of the European health consumer index, which ranks European countries in the quality of providing health services. The Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, took the last 35 seats on the list during the time period, winning only 451 points from a minimum of 333, and a maximum of 1,000 points. In 2012, Serbia singled out a very low percentage of the extremely low gross social product for health care per capita, which was classified, too, in countries that unfortunately rank among the last in Europe. Debts on unpaid health insurance contributions amounted to an incredible 840m euros. In 2012, health institutions owed about 300m euros. The state of Serbia, in that period, has singled out, believe it or not, five billion dinars for 13,600 phantom employees who are not aware of who or what they did, or what kind of service they provided, or what the quality of the service was, because they simply did not have a contract with the Republic Health Insurance. So five billion dinars a year. Also, in 2012, the burden of health insurance in the Republic of Serbia was not a single cure for rare diseases. So I could now, by the end of the time that was scheduled for today's debate, talk about what was wrong and how the government was doing, and now the Twitter opposition. All this really testifies to one great devastation of the health system, thieving, negligent, negligent, except for your own pockets. By the way, all this information that I have cited and many others has been said by health minister Dr Zoran Stankovic at the time, and by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Today, the Republic of Serbia invests more than 10% of GDP per capita in health care, and let's just remind ourselves of the short plans and what has been done in particular. So, in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia will invest about 150m euros, in the Vojvodina Clinical Centre 54m euros, the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac 43m euros, of course, with its accompanying equipment, 42m euros were invested in Dedinje 2 in Tiršovo 2 about 100m euros, in Onkology ninem euros, in Onkology in Novi Sad 6.6m euros, in the Clinical Hospital Dragisa Misovic 14m, in the Zemun hospital six million, in Tirsovo 1 8m euros. The reconstruction of 40 general hospitals in the country is under way, and the total value of the works is about a billion euros. Only part of what I have cited is I consider sufficient indicators of what the difference in Serbia's health system is today and what it was during the past regime. When we talk about the second law and the second agreement, he tells us with his content that we will improve energy efficiency in central government buildings. It should be recalled that the Republic of Serbia and the signatories of the Energy Community Treaty, where one of the requirements and obligations is to renovate public buildings of central government, in order to meet the necessary conditions regarding energy properties, and with the aim of reducing greenhouse gases, giving our country's contribution to climate change, of course large energy savings and the existence of aesthetic manifesto after these reconstructions. With the water supply agreement and wastewater processing facilities, we allow the funds received to be used in the water network reconstruction and reconstruction project in over 60 local self-government units in Serbia, where over two million people will benefit directly. So two million citizens of the Republic of Serbia will also use a drink of better quality and better water. Also, I don't know if the citizens of Serbia are familiar, whether they are now aware that the waste water from their households, from certain educational, health institutions, catering facilities, which is rarely mixed with industrial water containing a number of particles and substances, is practically going to our water streams, or our rivers, lakes, canals. It is precisely this investment that this wastewater will end up in processing facilities, where it will, as ecologically clean and upright, end up in watersheds. This prevents ecological disasters in our rivers, lakes, our canals, and, of course, will protect the environment. Also, this agreement will provide funds for construction and reconstruction, reconstruction of a sewerage network in Serbia, where, according to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, every city, every village, every household in Serbia is scheduled to be connected to a sewerage network. Now about two million inhabitants of their wastewater are sending into septic pits. For these purposes, more than a billion euros are foreseen in the next period. One of the agreements is the rehabilitation of the district heating system, which means many benefits for both consumers and the entire population, but also the environment. Any energy supply that is sustainable, efficient and reliable is absolutely desirable. This agreement will implement the construction, reconstruction or replacement of a plant for the production of heat energy, networks, contemporary SKADA automatic systems, boiler rooms, substations etc., and this privilege in this circle or in this group will be given by Belgrade, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Leskovac, Negotin, Nis and Pirot. It is truly fascinating that, despite the huge problems caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus around the world, where the largest number of countries are practically waiting to see the decay, our country, the Republic of Serbia, continues to invest, to strengthen, to advance. As long as that's the case, you'll have unreserved support, if not all, then the largest number of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u854	Thank you. The word is Snow White Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u855	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, on the agenda of today's session are several very important draft laws confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the relevant financial institutions. It is about funding important projects for our country, whose realisation will create a favourable climate for new investments, job creation and improving the living standards of the population. In addition to others, we have a confirmation of the proposal for a law on two agreements by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe to finance the public sector in support of the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to alleviate the Kovida-19 pandemic, which are very important and necessary for their adoption, in order for our country to cope more painlessly with the consequences of the pandemic that has been going on since March of the month, full of nine months, which continues to harass and draw resources for its repression. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been making, investing and making every effort to fight Kovida-19, in order to preserve the nation's health as best as possible and to lose as little human life as possible. In the follow-up, I will refer to two very important draft laws on the validation of agreements on projects for the construction of a water supply and waste water treatment facility, as well as on energy efficiency projects in the public buildings of the second phase. In fact, it is important to point out that in the early 21st century people began to develop their awareness of the importance and preservation of the environment and water. This process is going on, and it's getting more and more important. The rapid growth and development of cities and settlements, an increase in the number of populations, is caused by environmental and water pollution, which is one of the most difficult forms of pollution. The rapid development increases water consumption and causes an increase in waste water consumption. In order to address this problem, adequate waste water treatment methods have been developed. In order to preserve, as a society, the significant resources in the water that our country has, it is necessary to access the water supply and treatment of wastewater. For these reasons, it is important to pass a law confirming the loan agreement for the partial financing of water supply and treatment of waste water between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The structure of this programme and project consists of two components. The first component includes partial funding for improving the country's water supply system. The promotion consists of priority measures aimed at protecting water quality due to the threat of climate change and general pollution. The second component of the project includes the partial financing of the construction of new wastewater treatment facilities and sanitary networks in several cities in the country. The project is important to point out that around two million residents living in 60 cities and municipalities across the country will be covered. A framework loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for this water supply and wastewater treatment project was signed in Belgrade in February 2020 under very favourable conditions, fixed interest rates, maximum repayment deadlines of up to 20 years and the possibility of using grace periods of up to five years. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the validation of the Energy Efficiency Loan Agreement for buildings in public-purpose buildings, the second phase, it is very important to say that the loan will be fully transferred to the selected units of local self-government and will be used exclusively to finance the incentives of energy efficiency in those facilities which are also financed by this loan. The loan will be paid with a maximum maturity of up to 15 years, with a grace period of up to five years and a very favourable fixed interest rate of 0.9% on an annual basis. The German government has defined a 20m-euro loan for the purpose, with a subsidized interest rate, which is important to say, as well as a non-refundable share of 1.5m euros in technical assistance. The advantage of the German Development Bank loan is important to point out because the use of energy is the subject of essential reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given that the intensity of the use of electricity in our country is among the highest in the countries of Europe. The majority of electricity consumption is in the cooperative sector, where participation in the use of total energy goes up to as much as 45%. The need for investment investments in energy efficiency is particularly expressed in public-purpose buildings due to the age of construction and methods that have so far not covered energy efficiency. The project will cover about 60 public purpose facilities in the area and in education, health, social protection and sports sectors in selected local self-government units. Due to the importance of the topic and everything that is being discussed by the draft agreement and the law on confirming the agreement, the Serbian People's Party MPs' day will vote and support the full set of laws today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u856	Thank you. The information for the parliamentary group, the remaining time for debate, is just over 60 minutes. Next reported is Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u857	I will talk about points 6 and 7 of these two loan agreements that envision a 314m-euro loan. So that I don't repeat myself, but that's why I'm going to bring this out, that the citizens know and hear what fantastic things they get from these two loans. So, two PCRs new labs, one in Novi Sad, and the other in Kragujevac, as many as 35 machines for computer tomography, are huge appliances, 167 X-rays, 100 ambulances, 1,900 vital function monitors, 1,900 special beds, 25 special epidemic vehicles and total equipment protected for 34.000 euros. Simply, the objectives of both these agreements are strengthening the health system, supporting the health system and of course buying pharmaceutical and medical products. These two draft laws are part of the country's noble and superhuman efforts to combat the epidemic. But now I'm going to say something about what Minister Mali and the whole government and the whole state are facing. So here we've seen noble efforts, we see at these two points. And what are we facing? Eight months, 24 media 24 hours every day for eight months are attacking state measures. Let's see what we're up against. So, on the other hand, we have an aggressive minority of vacillators, which is not an offensive word, which is being invested, on the other hand, we've seen superhuman efforts to fight an epidemic, and the reviewers are making inhuman efforts to prove themselves to be the fifth column of the coronary virus. We know, crises, wars, epidemics get out of people and the best and the worst. So it is best shown by all those who are united in fighting this monster and owe them the deepest gratitude. We who fight this way against monsters, of course, are led by President Vukic. The other, the worst in man, says a small but dangerous and powerful group of people and that group is leading, of course, tycoon Dragan Gilas. So, they're infected, except for the fifth column of the coronary virus, this small but dangerous group is infected with one metaphorical rabies virus that's much more contagious and dangerous than the coronary virus. They wage a special war against Serbia. So, Gilas's party, Jeremic's party, Obradovic, and support also have in the media cluster. I'd like to ask my fellow Socialists, this is the 50th time, can you shut up? Thank you. I'm sorry. So, 24 media, it's a cluster of media, they support the fight against this country, it's a very difficult fight we're fighting against them. So 24 media. The media cluster supports the fight against this country. It's a very difficult fight we're fighting against. So, a special war involves spreading false news and sabotaging all measures of the state. We've been witnessing these eight months. But we need to know that this minority exists, we need to tolerate them, and the citizens need to know that, because we are both tolerance and reconciliation. It's just an example, and otherwise they're looking for the sharpest hour, and when the epidemic started, they were looking for the easiest measures. It's the opposite of what the state does. As an example, I'm going to give you last week's request from Dragan Gilas, for God's sake, to introduce the strictest measures. Be careful, Mr. Gilas thinks the citizens are very weak in memory. In March and April, he proposed the smallest possible measures, and then the strongest measures were needed because we had just encountered an epidemic, we were completely unadapted. Every person means some sort of harmony in what he thinks, what he says, and what he does. How are these processes going with Dragan Gilas? What are the intimate thoughts of Dragan Gilas? Gilas thinks I care about both citizens and the crown, I have 619m euros. What's Gilas saying? I'm looking for the sharpest measures? And what does Gilas really do? He says – Miloš spreads the disease. It is his official from Lazarec, the owner of a nightclub, which, by his order, fills his club full of holes and people there without masks are infected, the youth of this Serbia. That's how Dragan Gilas works. It's a complete stupidity. The same day footage was released from the function club Dragan Gilas, Dragan Gilas is looking for the strongest measures. It's complete stupidity and epic hypocrisy. Now something a little nicer. We've learned that collective rights are more important than individual rights. The infection at the same time brought together and divided the planet. Before our former desires and greed seem entirely ground and prose. We realized how valuable the time we spend with our loved ones, we gained better hygiene habits, we were more disciplined and we learned that patients were saved by doctors and nurses, hygienics, not tycoons and thieves. Doctors, nurses, and hygienics are ten times, 100 times more important than all selebrites and vipers combined. I mean, the guy's got all over the world. Their stupid excuses are about the same everywhere, but only in Serbia do we have this strong fifth column of the coronary virus so-called. Coroners or Coronal Coalition. Only in Serbia did the coronators take applause to the heroes' doctors, and only in Serbia are often scolded that hell was thrown in March by half a million people from that so-called. The euro area of Serbia's alleged stepmother has become the mother it has always been. In Serbia, too, we have learned together, encouraged by Vucic's leadership to think and live positively. So again in us are awakened those almost forgotten feelings of gratitude to those in the front row, compassion for the afflicted, admiration for those who solve problems and unselfishness that we support each other. The government governs our country with compassion, happiness, justice and human warmth just as it was in March during the emergency when we were all pressured by an accident. I welcome the taking of these two loans. They will contribute to Serbia overcoming the period until the vaccine appears. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u858	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u859	I would like to thank the respected chairman and distinguished ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are facing today a set of financial agreements that are significant with two aspects and absolutely in line with the plan and programme promoted by our President Aleksandar Vukic and the plan and programme that adheres and which is promoted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The first goal is to protect the life and health of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the old, middle-aged, young and children in the fight against the hoof 19, who is a pandemic and who has been affected by the whole world. Another significant goal, this is the further economic development of the Republic of Serbia through the construction of infrastructure projects which are both the driver and the momentum of Serbia's economic progress, which means that it will enable more jobs, better quality of life for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, what is the most significant reduction of poverty. I will focus on the loan relating to the loan between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as an emergency response to the anchor, the consequences of the Kovida-19 pandemic. The loan amounts to 92m euros with a 12-year and three-year maturity. What I must also point out, and as far as this loan is concerned, is that the loan was signed in May of the month, but that the amount of 36m euros refers to retro-active financing, which means it will be able to be used for all the funds obtained from March 1st, aimed at strengthening the health system. This loan is primarily aimed at strengthening the health system through strengthening hospital capacities through training, but of course through the protection of the health of each patient, but this loan aims at raising the general awareness of citizens, public enterprises, the civil sector, the private sector, about the risks that the Kovid -19 pandemic can create. In particular, raising awareness puts a special accent on particularly sensitive and vulnerable groups, which are users of women safe houses, prisoners, Roma and so on. I would also like to point out that since 6 March the Republic of Serbia, when in Serbia the first person to be registered in the Republic of Serbia is usually the first one to be ill with Kovid -19, that our President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic and the complete Government are responsible, courageous, timely and adequately acting, to respond to all needs of the citizens, go a step ahead and any measure that has been taken absolutely is in line with the preservation of the health of our population. Is there more where in Europe to be built a hospital cove as it is built in the Republic of Serbia? Two brand-new ones, at Batajnica and covid hospitals in Kruševec. Most modernly, according to the world's most modern standards, and one day when this epidemic passes, these hospitals will be used, they will have another purpose and, of course, will be used to preserve the health of the population from other diseases. Of course, I must point out that these agreements are both significant and from the point of view of the further development of the green economy, but also from the point of view of further strengthening the energy system. I must stress that regardless of the pandemic that has hit the whole world, and Serbia is, of course, an integral part of the whole world, and in our pandemic has taken a great wave, I must stress that the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia are working on all fronts to strengthen all segments of our society in the interest of protecting the best interests of our citizens, and above all, these segments concern further strengthening the economy which is the foundation and base of every country. I will refer to yellow tycoons, thieves and robbers painted in image and part of Dragan Gilas, however, only briefly. Namely, their basic means of communication with the public is lies, lies and only lies. The placement of lies and manipulations is their means of addressing both citizens and, of course, those who exercise responsible authority today, starting with the President of the Republic and the Government. In fact, a few days ago they tried to place news in this fight with the covid that Serbia is not giving enough to treat children abroad. It's not that it's incorrect, it's absolutely fake. It's fake and I'm going to specify, of course, the data. Four hundred citizens of the Republic of Serbia were sent abroad from 2014 to 2018, of which 3.305 children. For this, the Republic of Serbia has singled out 4.5 billion dinars. At the time of their government's exercise, 1,492 citizens have been sent abroad since 2009, of which 509 children have been allocated 1.5 billion dinars. Dear citizens, assess whether more than 3.305 children directed abroad at this time by the SNS government or 509, as far as is directed at the time of the government of the yellow tycoon company. But as my colleague Professor Atlagic said, behold, miracles, children are told by those who robbed children distracted by 150 million in development through the Hetherland Castle. Children are told by those who robbed children by usurping the most exclusive part of Belgrade, Kostunica, for the construction of the Big Brother house in which Dragan Gilas made millions trading in television seconds. The children are told by those at whose time the university children's clinic was in a phase when the facade fell off. Fortunately, there were no injuries. Otherwise, the University Children's Clinic is one of the oldest clinics in the Balkans. The work began in 1925 and, of course, was fully constructed, reconstructed and put into operation for the sake of the interests of sick children. For our children, there is no dilemma, they will vote for life and economic progress in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u860	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u861	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, unlike previous speeches, I will begin my presentation today differently and I hope that the chairman will not mind. Today's date represents someone's birthday, maybe it's important from another angle, but today it's World Day Against Violence Against Women. As someone who has stood firm over women's rights in the past and the eradication of this defacto monster that exists in our society, there is in every society, I feel the need to address today the women who are watching us, who may listen to this transmission and tell them that they are not alone, that they are in no way suffering violence and that violence is reported, because in this way they will make the bully get the fine, and above all they will protect his life and preserve his life. Violence isn't just physical violence. It's also violence when someone threatens you, when someone insults you, when someone harasses you on a psychological basis. Please don't ever be silent when you're experiencing something like that. This place is particularly important to mention such a thing from this place for the simple reason that the recent president of the Parliament of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, suffered for a very long time both physical violence and verbally, because some colleagues from this meeting were victims of different types of violence and all because they do not think like Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradović and just because they think of their own head or do business the way they do not like it. The victims weren't just women belonging to the SNS. I will remind you that violence has suffered and journalists, from the beaten Goce Zelec, Mare Dragovic, from Ivana Vukicevic from "Study B", from Barbara Živić, can no longer remember who went through their warm rabbit, where the ugliest names are named, characterized, that I am not speaking, and that some of the leaders have only been given epithets because of their professional performance. Violence is not welcome anywhere, there is no place for violence, and especially no place for violence to happen to ladies. That's why I had to start this exposure this way and thank you for your understanding. As far as today's agenda is concerned, I think that any exposure related to the economic part of the plan is very difficult to begin with without the praise of the government of Serbia, Minister Sinisha Mali, but above all to the reference and results achieved by the Serbian and Republika Srpska government since President Aleksandar Vukic took the lead. These agreements, my colleagues, I'm going to point that out again, say almost everything. I would not like to repeat myself and go around with these praises, because citizens are also aware of how much has been done in the previous period, as well as in this difficult situation the state is not doing well, it is dealing well with the coronary crisis and it is seen at every turn. What I find interesting are three agreements. I will take a brief look at them and I just want to suggest to the citizens that Serbia 2020-2025 politics, as well as the basic six postulates set by President Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party before the Serbian government are respected and this is an indication that it is going in that direction. The first concerns fighting for the health of all our citizens and overcoming this crown crisis. It is an agreement signed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The value of the deal is 92m euros. There's not much to add. We're aware of the situation we're in. We are aware that these covid laboratories, which are planned to finance from these funds, will make our health better, to get out of this crisis faster. It's a catastrophic fact that by now we have seven and a half thousand infected people. These numbers are increasing and we must appeal to responsibility above all our citizens. The state will do as much as it can, but it's up to all of us again. And this agreement is very good, because you're showing that you're thinking about all citizens, because you're putting yourself in the corner of an ordinary man, who knows that if he gets infected today, tomorrow, he'll put himself in danger, but also his closest. As far as the second agreement is concerned, he is signing with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It concerns the financing and mitigation of the 200m-euro pandemic. It's a great thing. So to obtain all the necessary things that are necessary for the lives of citizens. This is proof that when you think rationally, when you take the interest of citizens, you make these agreements and these decisions. I think my colleagues said everything in the previous presentations. I don't want to repeat myself, I'm just going to appeal to all citizens to have in mind how important it is for every man in our country to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible and with fewer victims, because it's evident that we're losing people and it's evident that this virus is creating huge problems for everyone and that no one is protected from it. As for the third agreement, which I find particularly interesting, I'm someone who comes from the Vozdovac municipality. I am also the head of the SNS parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly and when I listen to my colleagues coming from elsewhere in Serbia, I am sorry that many of my colleagues think the ideal situation is in Belgrade. Unfortunately, the worst mayor in history has left us with such a monster that it's amazing. Mr. Minister, you were lucky enough to sit in a chair after Dragan Gilas, again and unfortunately, because he left you an empty register and destroyed almost Belgrade. I have to admit that even in the Vozdovac municipality, for people who don't know which one extends from AutoCommand to Bubanj stream, believe our settlements don't have all the sewers. So, people who need to get to the Terrace maybe 20 minutes or half an hour don't have a sewer. Only when the SNS came to power did it start to change. You, ministers, have also participated in projects and as regards both Ripnja and Zuca and Pinosave, the White Creek. So no one with a finger moved until 2013, 2014, proportionately, parallel to the arrival of SNS to the republican government. You must know that according to some surveys in Belgrade, as many as 560,000 citizens are out of sewers. This is how Dragan Gilas led Belgrade with his DS regime and how they treated the City of Belgrade, which is a picture and an opportunity for you to behave again today. So, only your own interest, only your own pockets. This is very good, you know that according to the "Serbia 2020/25" programme, every house in Serbia will have water and sewerage. That's what matters where we show that we care about the quality of life of every citizen, wherever he lives. We were talking yesterday, respected ministers, discussing that we were only at the expense of those interest rates, which you were talking about yesterday, able to save 500 million euros, that they were more responsible, that they were better run by the state. Today we are talking about packages and these seven agreements, the total values are around 700m euros, and only some companies of one man, Dragan Gilas, have received 619m euros. So, all we're talking about today and everything we talked about yesterday is somewhere around what Dragan Gilas was dealing with himself in transactions with his private companies when he was state-owned. With this I will finish, the head of our parliamentary group, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, at first looked back when we are talking about millions, speaking of seconds, is amazing wherever he is messing with some seconds of advertising space, videos, television, millions, always somehow standing Dragan Gilas. It is amazing that this man has such a mania with the media that it all comes down to whether some media will control or write as he wants, but the fact that the two TVs "New S" and N1 for 408 videos charge 1.2 million dinars, i.e. 2,941 dinar per minute for one type of video, where they call for a boycott and clearly say that only if you boycott the elections and if every vote that goes to those elections means voting for Alexander Vukic, has one tariff, and if the SNS spot, 28 videos are paid 3.9 million dinars, or 139 million dinars per minute, see how many people are willing to lie and deceive. Just so the citizens of Serbia know, they justify this decision by making that boycott video, please imagine, is not political propaganda, and what is it? Could it have been a fashion brand, some shop, some discount, or was it directly referred to as a boycott? I wish you respected ministers a lot of success, I want these agreements to be the continuation and continuity of responsible policy-making by President Aleksandar Vukic, and I want Serbia's citizens to have good health, to be safe, to keep their loved ones safe and to get out of this crisis as safely as possible. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u862	Thank you. The word is Bratimir Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u863	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, reading agreements that are on the agenda today, bear around 700m euros, and I am deeply convinced that they will be used in what is most important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is when it comes to health, when it comes to infrastructures such as sewerage, plumbing and water treatment plants, energy efficiency and district heating. That is all that will be of great help to Serbian citizens and improve the conditions of life in the country of Serbia. If we consider how the state of Serbia is run from 2014 to today, I am absolutely sure that these funds will be used in the right way to justify their need. And when it comes to health care, we know what kind of monster we've been hit by, how much the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the president of the state, has made an effort to make as few victims as possible, to get as many people cured as possible, and we don't know how long it will take. When the deficit of the Serbian state is mentioned for 2019/20 years, it is quite normal and logical because no one could expect this kind of accident and trouble that has hit not only Serbia, but the whole world, how much medicine and hospitals were to be provided and all that it takes to ensure that citizens are taken care of, in order to make as few victims as possible. When it comes to infrastructure and water supply, I have to look back, the city of Nis has over 300,000 inhabitants and today there is no water treatment plant. Fortunately, the EU has approved 53m euros for construction of the facility and we hope that this will move rapidly with the construction of it, and it takes many kilometers of sewerage, many kilometres of water supply networks, and this means that this agreement is intended for these purposes, and if we are aware, and we know well that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the country's programme from 2020 to 2025 provides that every settlement, i.e. Every house gets sewers and water. I deeply believe that it will come true. I couldn't help but look back at these, as we hear, daily criticism and unwarranted by so-called. ‘Options’, i.e. from a "yellow company", which does not choose funds and ways to address citizens and how their policy consisting only in hating Mr. Alexander Vukic and his family, I would also say that they also hate Serbia's country, because they simply do not like what Serbia is doing and that Serbia shows every day the results that are real, which bring improvement to Serbia's citizens. Since I come from the Panteleus municipality, I can't skip a few things, so I'm going to give myself the freedom to call certain ministers, and then I'm going to say for what reasons. So, Agriculture Minister, Minister of Rural Development, Minister for Development of Undeveloped Areas, Minister for Sport, Minister for Tourism and Minister for State and Local Self-Government. When I list these ministers, I mean the following, that the city hall sees, it's a row of undeveloped municipalities, even though it's part of the town of Nis. The city of Nis is by development in the second category, and GO Panteleus is far behind it. So, in order for GO Panteleus to develop, we need, first of all, a chance to see in the development of agriculture and the development of tourism. When it comes to the development of agriculture, there was once a region of more than 5,400 hectares in the territory of the village of Malca, Donji and Gornji Matejevc, Kamenica and Sitchev. Today, unfortunately, that area is below 500 hectares. There is encouragement that more and more young people are beginning to deal with this production and nothing new plantings, which is encouraging. For this reason, it would be good if the Minister of Agriculture were somehow involved in helping Go Pantele to get into the ranks of developed municipalities as soon as possible. When we talk about tourism, we take into account several possibilities that do not exist on a different space, such as the Summer Trail for paragliding. In 2017 we organized the World Cup in paragliding and a beautiful picture went into the world from that organization. We also received an organisation of the European Championship, which was scheduled to take place in 2020, unfortunately due to the pandemic being delayed, but it will certainly be held in Serbia. After that, we expect to win the European Championship. Why do I say paragliding track? Because she's famous for one of the three best trails in the world. These are data from experts dealing with this, because the rose wind that appears on the Oreova Rock is rare, rarely anywhere on the territory of not only Serbia but on the territory of Europe. The Cerjan cave is one of the cave pearls. A road has been made to the Cerjana Cave itself, the Visitor's Centre has been raised, but there is still little investment needed to adjust it to broad masses, because it is simply not qualified, and it is untested and valid for one of the pearls in Europe. Geothermal waters. The Pantelius municipality has an investigative right, where experts in this area simply claim that the city of Nis lies on hot water. Now imagine if at a depth of 600 to 700 meters really did find that water, it would be a revolution for the city of Nis, because the maltenes of the whole Nis and the surrounding areas could be heated on that water, because they say that water is over 75 degrees Celsius, not to mention what other purposes it could be used for besides heating. The Kamenik vis road – The Kalafat for Svrljig would connect three caves that exist in Svrlig and Cerjan Cave. More and more tourists are coming to us, so we have to offer them some content, because they'll come two, three times, but if we don't offer them content, they won't show up next time. Religious tourism. The city municipality of Panteleus is rich with a large number of religious objects, churches, monasteries and I think it belongs to the wealthier in the country, so it also has needs. In the end, rural tourism. Why did I list here that it was necessary for the Minister of State and Local Self-Government? For the simple reason that I have since, while I was president of the city municipality, fought for the status of city municipalities to be regulated systematically, as it was done in the city of Belgrade. For this I received the support of the then Minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic, who encouraged me and asked me not to give up, so, here, and this time I am asking the new Minister of State Administration and the local self-government to engage, in a systematic way to resolve the functioning of city municipalities, because they exist for over 16 years and have shown that they have justified their existence. That's what the citizens of Nis claim. So it would be good if it were systemically arranged, if they knew the exact powers, if they knew the powers, and when we did, then we avoided subjectivism or the will of the individual, so that it could continue to work. In the end, Serbia lived and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u864	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u865	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about four laws relating to loans for the areas of energy efficiency and environmental protection. These two areas have huge investment potential, moreover, investment crying and each dinar placed in energy efficiency and environmental protection is well directed, especially if it is low-interest assets, with interest subsidies, if there is a guarantee of the borrower, or loan, and, of course, a grace period such as these agreements, for five or six years and a period of payment from 10 to 15 years, depending on the agreement. So if we have one such situation, it's perfectly logical that these funds are taken and placed in these areas. The communal infrastructure, here I mean the water and sewerage infrastructure, first of all, in many cities and many municipalities in Serbia is in very poor condition and I can give you an example of the city water pipeline in Nis, where 40% of the water is lost, i.e. There is a 40% difference between the amount of water that is processed at the source and pushed into the system through the pipeline and the invoiced amount of water, where, of course, illegal connections are negligible, i.e. They're involved with some negligible part of it. There are huge water losses in the water network, even on the Master's Waterway, i.e. the Master's Roads, and there is a need for reconstruction of all this, so that this 200m-euro loan, where 50 more is supplied by the European Investment Bank and the rest of EU grants and some small local self-government, totaling 300 million dinars, is something that will really, I am absolutely certain, be used in the municipalities that these funds will receive. The sewerage network is also in poor shape, but not only is it in poor condition in one part, it is not built enough, or there is a problem with the collection, draining and processing of waste water, so that investment in the environment is beyond necessary. A colleague, Vasiljevic, mentioned the wastewater treatment plant in Nis. The project is under way, and this is the IPA project, which is funded by the EU IPA project, 85% of the EU's funds and 15% the Republic of Serbia. It really is a giant project worth 54m euros. These two laws relating to investment in energy efficiency in buildings of public purposes and buildings of central government are good not only because after the reconstruction of these facilities, less energy will be needed because less energy will be used, or energy savings will be achieved, but also because it gives and shows an example to all other entities and citizens how to act, i.e. to set a good example for all others. In this way, we also acted in the city of Nis, so that we also wanted schools, primary, secondary, children's kindergartens, city administration buildings, and everything that belongs to us, or local self-government as its obligation to reconstruct, replace the facade, or repair the facade, replace the carpentry or replace the energy, in order to simply give an example to the entire community. When it comes to the law confirming the KfW loan of 30m euros, I must say that our city was the only one, I think, involved in all phases of the KfW programme from first to fifth. He also participated in this fifth and city of Nis almost exclusively thanks to the funds he received through KfW programs to replace boilers, or energy in almost all the heat. So today 93% of all the capacity of the city heat in Nis is on natural gas, and this new loan in which Nis has already received fourm euros from these 30, a replacement of energy is planned in another city heat. In addition, many kilometers of state-of-the-art power lines in the city have been replaced, so we've got an extremely good energy transmission coefficient through the distribution network. The extremely good energy efficiency coefficient and in this sense the city of Nis can be an example of others in terms of environmental conservation, 35% of the population in the city uses remote heating for heating and I say this system does not pollute the environment. We often witness that there are calls by local authorities in public because of the occasional pollution that is above a certain limit, but in all of this the greatest responsibility is borne by individual bars, i.e. people use coal, use wood and, of course, all of this when they are collected and when all bets at the same time cross appropriate benchmarks and allowed pollution values. So I think that this solution is that the network of district heating and natural gas networks that should be complementary in one city offers as a solution to all those who are nearby, means that development plans and two networks are seen and that simply offers to citizens and direct subsidies and subsidized loans that will motivate them to enter one of those two systems that protect the environment, and where and during any further period, it will not be possible for people to join any of these two systems. Subsidies and subsidized loans to switch to pellets or, for example, the use of renewable energy sources, means heat pumps and so on, so that the level of pollution in cities in critical times can be tolerated and acceptable in certain winter days. Of course, I know how funds stand, the green funds of local self-government, and I don't think they can carry out that burden of subsidising individuals on their own. I think that the state and local self-government together can do a lot in this regard, with joint efforts. I say by subsidising interest loans, so citizens don't feel it as a burden but simply to see that loan as a non-payment loan. What I want to point out here and introduce you to the problem is that we have a certain republican institution in town that should set an example for all of us about how to protect the environment and how to act in terms of energy savings. They don't behave that way, and they're not in our, say, city authority and local self-government can't do anything on their own or in force. We have offered our services and assistance to the Faculty of Medicine and the University building, it is a building of Moravska Banovina in the very center of the city, the Faculty of Law and Economics, meaning it is high-school institutions which, apart from budget revenues, have high own incomes, independent incomes and I would say they are not without money and we have offered our help that those from their heating, that those from coal or maguta, the vine of oil go to, say, gas or to join the city's heat and we have not come across any understanding. So I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, because this is also about higher education institutions that are in the power of the ministry, could make an effort on their part to convince them to take care of the environment, because I say the city has no authority, there is no competence. What was ours was that the buildings of the city administration, that buildings of direct, indirect users of the budgetary resources of the city of Nis, schools, primary, secondary, kindergartens would be introduced to the greatest extent, i.e. to switch either to gas or to connect to the system of district heating. I started, so I got off the KFV 5 issue, we got about five million and 800 thousand euros of grants from the German Development Bank and two million and 800 were our city funds. So here it should be stressed that in the first three phases, the German Development Bank has been extremely helpful to the city of Nis and the difference between their and our total allocated funds is three million euros. In phase four and third, the third had a credit share, the fourth was just a fourm-euro loan, a total loan of seven and a half million euros for the two phases. I say, now in these 30 million, we've already applied and passed the projects for four million, and we've prepared projects for another three million euros. So if the funds remain unused by other potential users, the city of Nis always has good projects for the area. So, this discussion of mine concludes, of course, that I support all the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u866	Thank you. The remaining time to discuss the parliamentary group is 12 minutes. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u867	Thank you, Vice President. I won't be taking much time, but I'd just like to say for a little while, so other colleagues can talk. Just a few references to this topic that we practically started yesterday, here we are today continuing to point out and to focus perhaps on what perhaps my esteemed colleagues who have talked from countless angles today about everything called the stabilisation of public finances, but on the other hand, and co-operation with international financial institutions in terms and continuity, but also the situation in which we are all together. What is important to point out, we had the opportunity last night to directly host the president of the Republic of Serbia who practically announced the opening of a new Kovid hospital that is only one of the two we open. One in Belgrade, Batajnica, the other in Krusevec, to point out what may not be said today which is most important about the topic. Most importantly, in such a difficult financial situation, Serbia itself is financing such capital projects, while everyone else in the region and the world is struggling to link what is the daily problem and impact of the crown crisis on public finances, we are doing such capital investments in such a difficult situation. And we're doing it without help. On the other hand, what is crucial in all this, no one today can predict how long Kovid will last and his consequences. For this reason, we must return and connect with all international financial institutions and monitor the daily level, on a monthly basis, on a three-month basis how things will develop. For this reason, any agreements, loans that will come in the future, means that our representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia are thinking in the long term, because the resources that Serbia, however well we have been standing in the past four years since we have had a surplus, because everything that is nominally limited. On the other hand, defending myself from the crown of the virus, by mass testing which today far more developed countries like Austria are just announcing that this is the first principle to say and the principle of combating the crown, we are already working. How do you describe it differently when you look at these numbers that really hurt your head - 7,600 people today? That's when you look at it from that angle, it sounds frakking. But let's look at a more important angle. It may sound astounding at this point how many people are sick, but what's more important to say is how much we've tested citizens, so today I don't know more than 22,000, and if we go to BiH in Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia, we see that they're 10 times less tested. Now, that's 10 times less tested, so 10 times less money has been spent and how much is one day worth each sick person and how much is it with the number of people who get sick every day? Of course, it's hard for citizens who may have to go to another city, but their capacities are shrinking, but somehow they've all put it in another plan where it's going to be financed. Serbia itself is funding, pushing the story itself, because the second year back was creating stable finances. Of course, no one's prepared for this situation, but we're showing our readiness. The Rosses of each country are limited, especially the country that went alone, self-initiatively, with its resources to mass-test. Isn't it mass testing 22,000 tests on a daily basis? So, we got into that story, but that, people, for God's sake, cost. We don't fake and test 2,000, 3,000 people, so I don't know either, we have 2,000, 3,000 citizens, so we have 1,000 people who are sick, to correct themselves, but much, much more, a dozen times more than they do in the region. In my opinion, it means, with all the gratitude that we are doing all this right, this aspect that involves both reducing the working time of catering facilities and everything else, means that this will be a significantly smaller inflow in terms of income that we will have in our public budgets, both at the local level and at the republic. About this someone must take care of and thank God that we have those people who have already shown in the past time period that they know, know, and that in the future time period, in addition to all the first priority we will meet, which is the struggle for the health of the population, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we will in any case ensure all these prejudices. In that sense, I can only point out once again that the Republic of Serbia, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the Ministry of Finance, together with the Ministry of Health, led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, has ensured that this stage, already announced by many, is being introduced and that it is extremely ready. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u868	National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Seven minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u869	Dear President of the National Assembly, here are the proposals for these laws today to confirm the agreement. I touched the law yesterday in my discussion. For a short period of time, let me say, however, that in this pandemic we have not treated each other zealously enough. When I say that, I mean part of the opposition MPs and politicians. Speaking of the pandemic, Dragan Gilas has most ground floored the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic and the Crisis Staff and is doing so in conjunction with certain foreign power centres aimed at Satanising the president of our country to regain the state registers to retake into 619m euros. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who is Dragan Gilas? It's a man who, before entering politics, was ordinary naked, and now a tycoon with 619m euros. His most filthy insults have gone beyond the bottom of the snakes. I don't want to say it by heart, but let me make things concrete. In 05.05.2020, Dragan Gilas insulted President Vukic, calling him a lunatic at the "N1" CIA. I quote, he said - Wolf, you're crazy. Dear citizens, on the question of journalist Jacqueline Tatalovic – will you, Gilasu, change that, do you know what Gilas replied? I'll turn that up, and then repeat it a few times - Wolf, you're crazy. Gilas really touched in his dirty curses the president of the Republic at the bottom of the snake. It was on 20.01.2018 only because President Vukic went to our people to Kosovo and Metohija and discussed with them the problems, their needs, what the state can help. For this reason, he insulted him, saying: “Alexandre the Wolf, you were ashamed! “ And then on 27.08.2018, ” he said, “you need to be crazy about taking down a bus stop and transferring traffic to a temporary bus station. ” Today, the bus station and that part of Belgrade are one of the pearls of the city of Belgrade. It'll be in the future. Then on 16 April 2020, he said: "Vucic has mental problems, some disorders and added – shame on you, Vukiću; Vukicu, you are a crazy man", and besides, he said without any reason: "Vučić, you are not normal". Dear People's MPs, do you know why the Gicky Mafia says that? Because Aleksandar Vukic didn't steal 619m euros, and Dragan Gilas did, and he's saying that because he has a problem with Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Gilas' propaganda machine on "N1" and "New S" has shown a map of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija on "Among Us" TV "New S". That map stood on the screen for almost half an hour. What does that mean? So it's not a technical error. It's an anti-constitutional act and not just that. It is a bid for an independent Kosovo. It is not the first time for Dragan Gilas, but it is not Yugoslavia's Cosic either. I ask him in front of Serbian citizens, why did the Kosovo and Metohija Shipar send him 49,000 euros in donations? Let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia respond. In the end, I do not want to deal with Dragan Gilas, Sergei Trifunovic said best about him. Sergei Trifunovic said, quote – Gilasu is the main weapon of money that solves and buys everything, political favor. Gilas is urging Prime Minister Grigori to run for Serbian President in 2022. The Alliance for Serbia never existed. What is it now, Janko Veselinović? Nothing. What are these others? Nothing. What is Zeljko Veselinović? Nothing. They're being held by Gilas, who has his own flirting party of freedom and justice, who comes in and makes money, they take two-threes, paf-paf-paf, then when he flies away to the ruler's Gregory, the deal with the people is a difficult fiction. Jeremic is an untalented politician, and Gilas has ruined culture in Belgrade. The final quote was 16th of July 2020. His fellowman Sergei Trifunovic, otherwise called pissers in the people, because he said he would piss on the president's grave, best characterized him. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the end, in these most difficult moments for our people, let us be united in one way for our health. That's why we wear masks, make a physical distance, because that's the only way our kids will have a future. So let us be the motto of Alexander Vukić – for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u870	Since there are only a minute and a half left, I have to ask, are the following on the list Alexander Markovic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Tomic, Sandra Christmas, Alexander Martinovic or should I conclude the debate? Thank you. After Marco finished a little earlier than expected, then the SNS parliamentary group remained neutral for another minute and a half. Do any of the heads of parliament or other authorised representatives want a word who hasn't used that right? If not, I ask – does the proposal's representative want the word, Minister? He's already checked in. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u871	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Dacic, honourable MPs, first of all I want to thank you for the very constructive cooperation and dialogue we have had during today. I'm glad you understood how important these agreements are today in front of you. So it's almost 700m euros in investment in everything that Serbian citizens will see very quickly on the ground, so something that contributes to their better and better quality of life in our country. So I thank you for all the suggestions and comments, of course, and the criticism, after all, that you gave us, but this is the right way for Serbia to move forward. What I would also like to do, and that is to congratulate all the new MPs, those who have taken their oath today, and also to congratulate those who first reported today. I can see there have been a lot of these, these are young people, our hopes. I wish you a lot of success in further work, in future work, a lot of these discussions and lots of nice topics as we've had today. Finally, just for the end of the break today, I had the opportunity to sign one agreement myself and one agreement between my colleague Tomislav Momirović, so two very important agreements for our country, two agreements that bring us a step closer to realisation and the start of a very important investment that we will start in the second half of the following year, which is the construction of the Autoway of Peace, so from Nis via Merdar to Pristina. We signed two agreements today. One agreement related to the management of the project and another agreement related to the closure of the entire financial structure. So, we signed an agreement with the European Agency for Reconstruction and Development 85m euros before that with the European Investment Bank 100m euros, a donation from the European Union to 40.6m euros, so 225m euros needed to go into the first stage of highway construction, that's 33km from Nis to Pločnik, so another promise that President Vukic made is realized in half the following year. It is very important that this highway and part of the Washington Agreement are, therefore, moving towards the realization of all that is promised in the agreement. We are a country that opens borders, we want no borders, we want free flow and goods and services and people. Of all that, if the whole region's economy is developing faster, the greatest benefit right now is the dominant economy of the region, which is our country. And this way we also contribute to the project "Serbia 2025", so this highway is part of the project, and this project is moving on. This gives us the right to say that by the end of 2025, we will fulfill the promise we made to the citizens of Serbia, so 900 euros in average salary, 430 average pensions, and in order to succeed, our GDP, our economy must grow. That's why these new investments are very important, which is why it's very important for this highway to start building next year, to start doing other highways, new hospitals, new schools, new kindergartens and these agreements that are ahead of you today will certainly contribute to the further growth of our GDP. So I thank you for your cooperation today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-25-0.u872	I thank Mr. Secretary. We're expecting him here in the next month. You'll be there tomorrow when the government comes, but independent of that, they'll still be here several times in the National Assembly with budgets and a set of different laws. In doing so, we spoke yesterday, and he arranged it with the chairman of the board of directors, and there will be public hearings related to some of the system laws that will be proposed in this area. Anyway, we've been hanging out with him the most since the beginning of this new term. I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 6 to 12 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the proposal for a law in item 12 of the agenda, in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. We're done for today. I just want to remind you once again that we will continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. and remind you once again that, according to the business procedure, the voting day, or the voting time, will be tomorrow after the afternoon session where the Prime Minister and members of the government will be present, where we will be asking parliamentary questions. That means the time to vote would be right after that, which means it's 19.00 p.m. tomorrow night. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 132 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since Thursday, does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Mr. Shaip Kamberi.
