ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69563	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, so we have a quorum and the possibility of continuing our work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69564	The state audit institution audited the Task Force Industry in Triestenik. In doing so, she found that Iveks, based in Belgrade, earned a profit in the name of trade in illuminating grenades worth around 400,000 euros. The Belgrade-based Iveks company, the total value of 400 euros, did not submit a report, a return report on the profits achieved, according to the law, according to the Triestenik Purpose. As established by the State Auditing Institution, in respect of the company ‘GIM’, which as an intermediary in trade between the Dedicated Industry Trstenik and the buyer achieved the total value in the period from 2017 to 2018 from $1,640,560 US dollars. As a concessionist, she had to report that difference she made in the name of the intermediate role. She didn't do it until today. The company Iveks, meanwhile, became independent. She is not even a mediator, as it is said, a concessionary, but works independently and is no longer obliged to give feedback about the possible profit obtained between the purchase and the sale price, but the company "GIM" is still an intermediary when it comes to the dedicated industry in Triestenik and is obliged to submit a report. What is interesting is that in the vanguard of the election campaign, which is expected for the elections at all three levels, it would be good, for the public's sake, that the authorities, i.e. the investigative authorities and courts review what kind of business it is and what the nature of these two companies' business with the dedicated industry in Tristenik. So far, we have been informed with information, truth and half of the information about these companies' business with the Valjev Krusik. All this is very, very important and important for the functioning of this state, and it would be particularly interesting to hear what the prosecution has done on the basis of this information available to the State Audit Authority. As far as the prosecution is concerned, a criminal complaint was filed in 2014 against several persons and organisations involved in the construction of the work "Corridor 11", Ub-Lajkovac shares. The reminders for this reason, it is a 12.7km-long stock, which has been done for the second time for reasons, according to the ministry's representatives, are not adequate material used in the construction of the stock. The country's additional work has spent 13m euros. What is very, very interesting is that to this day we have no information on what is finally the result of the investigations, the pre-trial actions, or whether it was obtained by some court epilogue, given that it was domestic performers, that there was "As" from Užica, that it was "Planum" and that they were enterprises to build roads. Let's just remember that in 2014, the arrest of Miskovic and his business partners, a big affair, took place. The affair has helped the SNS gain a high, very large reputation, i.e. rating and on the basis of this wave, and today there is a public opinion that the SNS is fighting crime. For many years now, these items have been in drawers. Let's hear what the SNS did.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69565	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69566	Thank you. Given the alignment of the text of the media strategy and its adoption last week, I would ask the Ministry of Culture and Information. In fact, during last week's session here at the National Assembly, the minister responded to a discussion by my distinguished counterpart, Djordz Milicevic, announced a new regulation prepared by the ministry just in line with this proposed adopted strategy. My question is - what will all mechanisms be guaranteed to implement this strategy and will new documents, apart from achieving freedom of the media, the protection of society, but also individuals, define the way media rights are provided and protect the independence of editorial policy? The media's main role, the main task, is to make news. As the media makes news, TV and radio stations create programs, so political parties define, promote their programming goals, place their ideas and tend to reach their voters together with the media or with the help of the media. Here, we are witnessing that for years back those who are calling for media darkness in Serbia do not realize their basic role, even in this home, whose work is transparent, whose work is transmitted and live, they have nothing to say. That's where the first reason for the boycott is from. They attack the media not to carry their activities, that they are not sufficiently represented in political content emissions, and that their messages are not agreed, are not clear, nor are they creative enough to offer citizens content. Except they're against it, and against it's a situation, it's not politics, it's not news. In the last year, they've had one political activity, which is the fabrication of falseness, leading to delusions and media representatives, because they're going to tell you the first, perhaps the second, possibly the third time, but not every other, because the media isn't telling lies, because lies aren't news. For them, media freedom is a smooth mix-up in editorial policy, and not just public services. They also want to edit private media, commercial television, internet portals, information programs, even weather forecasts. Public service is tasked with informing. Commercial TVs are also fighting for ratings, as print media are fighting for circulation, internet portals are fighting for the number of reviews. So everyone's fighting for their media space and their space of influence. The media has been making news, and unfortunately, part of the opposition, instead of making a program, has been wandering around for eight years, all of which accuses everyone of losing power, trying to absorb himself for a poor election result, which is the second cause of the boycott. Their, slightly said, indignity or Kalimera, whining because they're not in the shows, is the result of the lack of political maturity and self-critics. And even the best editors-in-chief, editors of political and informational sections, and even journalists, are unable to send out who they are, nor are they able to say who's in which political option, to begin with. Out of so many political groups, the amount of personal vanity that every day public service organises public TV debates, they could not all host them and each of them to please. Neither we in the National Assembly, in this assembly, were able to escort certain colleagues from other parliamentary groups. Over the night, they left each other behind, the third were buying parties, and they entered this parliament without a choice. In such a confusing atmosphere, dissonant tones, and without politics, guilt must be transferred to others, now it seems their ambassadors are guilty. That's how one part of the opposition, but some of their groups that want to settle into political factors, understands freedom of the media, that's their problem. What surprises is how some MEPs view media freedom. It discourages what Tanja Fajon in the authorial text NIN made as an impression. As part of the European Parliament's negotiating team, it should not place itself on either side, as it also undermines its authority and negotiating potential. I understand that some political options may be more or less expensive, but sympathy is not the place in this process, perhaps in some hotel lobby. If they really advocate objective reporting and freedom of the media, then they would have to come from themselves and realize that the pressures on the media whose reporting is not satisfied are just violating the basic principles on which freedom of the media is based. The fact that Tanja Fajon favors one side, one part, raises a small part of the opposition as to how objective its assessment of the conditions under which the next elections in Serbia will be held. Instead of dealing with regulation of new, modern media, their content that has a greater and more significant impact, planetarily speaking, we invent media darkness in Serbia in the third decade of the 21st century, where almost the entire population is on the click of information. Unfortunately, also from misinformation, false news and abuse. I hope that the media strategy, among other things, and all the accompanying documents will deal with this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69567	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69568	Thank you, Chairman. I was asked by the Association of Military Refugees of Serbia, the organisation of the Association of Novi Sad, the City Committee of Novi Sad to address the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Defence and the Prime Minister, since this association has already sent some letters to these addresses in the Serbian government, but has not received answers. It's about the housing status of the homeless military. Military homeless people are retired former JNA officers, senior officers and civilians serving in former JNAs, who were relocated from former republics to Serbia in the 1990s, based on decisions and agreements between domestic and international authorities. They then brought out about 40,000 people from the barracks in the former Yugoslav republics with their military technique and material military resources. The condition for those persons to be relocated and accepted in Serbia was to give up or surrender ownership of their mobile and immovable property in the former Yugoslav republics, with the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia that they would have a top-notch housing issue. Soon their status was demoted by the rules that were subsequently passed, and they were instructed to apply for a resolution of their housing issue. They ended up on waiting lists in temporary accommodations. According to information from this association, there are some 2,500 people whose housing issue is still unresolved today. These are usually persons who regularly made about 4.5 to 6% of their gross earnings in the Housing Fund during the decade of their military service and financed housing to have their housing issue unresolved today. Upon arrival in Serbia, they were housed in unconditional military facilities that were unadjusted to regular and family life, and the temporary accommodation grew into a multi-annual one. These are customized rooms where they live without electric counters and plumbers and where their accounts are determined according to some collective mathematics barracks. These people are forced to pay from 4,000 to 10,000 dinars per month per household member, which is absolutely unsustainable. Those who have decided to rent apartments receive a certain amount of material compensation for this, but at the value of a point that hasn't been updated for 12 years. These people wait about a quarter of a century for a solution to their housing problem. I repeat, it is the officers who have allocated their entire working century for the Housing Fund, and their assets in the former Yugoslav republics have given up in favour of Serbia, in order for Serbia to accept them, because this was a condition for Serbia to accept them, with Serbia's guarantee that the housing issue would be resolved, which has not happened so far. On average, it's been a quarter of a century, and in some 28 years. The law that regulates the building of apartments for members of security forces under special conditions does not solve the problem, because very often, almost exclusively, it is about persons who do not meet the criteria of creditworthiness, because their age is over 70 years. With these problems, these people have addressed the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Defence and the Prime Minister and have not yet received an answer. On the side of another very important fact, is it necessary that these people, who gave up their property in favour of Serbia as a prerequisite for being admitted to Serbia, go and resolve after military service to the state of Serbia with their residential loan issue. A law regulating a special procedure under more favourable conditions for security forces to resolve their housing issues towards them is unfair in at least a few other things. The rank lists that used to be valid have been cancelled. Interested persons have been requested to be reported via the site, which, after being opened, was blocked and crashed. The order was subsequently formed by a quick-toe system, as if it were a stock exchange, so whoever first gets to the site goes first on the list and then they're all posted to the Post Office where they're waiting with information that they don't meet the terms of creditworthiness. On behalf of the Association of Military Refugees of Serbia, I ask the Prime Minister to answer the parliamentary question that and how to resolve the housing issue for about 2,500 of these military homeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69569	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69570	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first question is for the competent ministry of demography, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as we spoke back several months ago that during 2020, funds will be increased to help marriage communities, for newborn children, for every second or third child, which was in the course of last year, so I am interested, since it came in 2020, in the past 10, 15 days, which have received this increase, and there has been an announcement on all media during last 2019. My question is – when will this opportunity be given to increase compensation, or help for each newborn child, because it is said to be 300,000 dinars as a single aid and to increase by each month for the first, second, third, and fourth? This is very important for all of us in Serbia because we are all witnessing that demographics are very active, that many old people have, that newborns have much less and therefore we have to put a maximum emphasis on the stimulation of birth, that every newborn child is respected, as said in the previous year. I would note, this was excellent and necessary, that for areas that are underdeveloped, mountain-mounted areas, the amount for rural areas is at least 50% higher than in other parts of Serbia. This applies to the devastated areas, to the most demographically endangered areas and to rural areas. I would once again ask the competent ministry, the teacher, to give us information and to get into an increase of stimulation for each newborn child and if there is a possibility that it could be 50% more for the most demographically endangered areas, for the devastated municipalities, for the mountain-mounted areas, and for rural areas to be twice as much as it is in the other parts. Another question is for the competent ministry in charge of water supply, sewerage, these things, whether it's the Ministry of State Administration, whether it's the Ministry of Transport and Construction, whether it's the Ministry without portfolios. I would only ask the question now, since we passed the law in 2018 to allow local self-governments to assume the obligation to manage rural water pipelines, and rural water pipelines have been built out of their self-indulgence for the past 20, 30 years, they are now in very poor shape, and we are witnessing that there is a major problem with water. From the municipality where I come from, we also have a big problem with water, where in the last 10 days we have applied, we have applied to invest with the project to build a water network, but now we have problems with the higher parts of the Svrlig because the rain has not fallen, as in most of Serbia, back five, six months and my question of when local self-government will get, since the law has been passed, when local self-government will have the obligation to take over the land water supply system and that through the NIP programme, which our President, Mr. Vukic, has announced, will stimulate such areas and that local self-government will assume the obligation to take over the rural water supply in office tomorrow? For the weekend I was in Nis, the city municipality of Pantelius, where I was, the village of Brenica and the village of Kamenica, where these villages also have water problems, and that is not the problem that is from today, but that is the problem back 20.30 years. It is important to mention this because the town of Nis has taken the obligation, or NAISUS, that it manages the water line, that it will solve this problem, but it is interested in people from that village and the surrounding villages - will it have the possibility to manage enterprises with water, such as those utility companies that are in charge of solving water supply, sewage, and will it be in the course of this year? It's a really big water supply problem, a water problem, and I think we all have to do it in the next period, except I just said about fighting for every child born, for business, for jobs, we have to put an accent on water supply, a new source. That's my question. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69571	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69572	Thank you, dear Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will ask two parliamentary questions in front of the JS parliamentary group. First and most important issue and message by Dragan Markovic Palma, president of the JS, who referred to last night's event of beating up Serbian ethnic youth in Podgorica. In light of the brutal beating of Serbian national youth, only because the Serb and different opinions, the JS president, the MP and president of the Jagodina City Assembly, Dragan Markovic Palma, asked the government in Montenegro, but we also speak to the foreign ministry in changing the existing opinion - is it that way, just because the different opinions and nationalities are open tourist season in Montenegro and whether beating up Serbian national youth is talking about the politics of hatred headed towards the Republic of Serbia, led by current Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic? We are convinced that the people of Montenegro do not think the same way as Milo Djukanovic and that also Montenegrins in the Republic of Serbia, but also all residents in Montenegro should turn against such policies, as well as policies of hatred and abduction of Serb churches. As far as the second question is concerned, we certainly had to point out, because these are already developments that are taking place, which talk about hate policy towards the Republic of Serbia and citizens of Serbia's nationality in Montenegro. The second parliamentary question will be asked by the Ministry of Environment Protection, Minister Trivan and Secretary of State Karic, given the position, in the negotiating position for Chapter 27 and the preparation of the most important strategic document in the field of environmental protection, I would like to ask two important questions, and will refer to the construction of this document, which will later be sublimated at national and local level, to address the issue of regional dumps and the legal construction of mini power plants. The parliamentary issue, with an explanation of the problem, is that I am an MP coming from the Kopalnička region, which covers on the one hand the Rasinski district, and on the other hand the Raški district and the municipality of Brus, Aleksandrovac, Rasška, Vrnjak Banju, is a very important issue of regional deposits, but before resolving the issue of regional dumps, I must point out that the question of local dumps has not been resolved even though it is in the plan to build a regional dump somewhere on the territory of the municipality of Trstenik, these municipalities are not included in the domain of this regional dump. In the JS delegation, led by Dragan Markovic Palm, we had a meeting in Vienna with the company "Pore" and on that occasion we explained these problems which is very interested in working with the Republic of Serbia to solve this problem of regional deposits and on that occasion the company "Pore" is due to good relations with our President Dragan Markovic Palm and donated a truck to JS garbage truck, which, through our MP and committee member JS in Vrnjak Banja Vojislav Vujic and donated to the municipality of Vrnjak Banja. So, first of all, this issue of local dumps, the Ministry absolutely has to deal with it because this problem cannot be solved for more than 20 years at the local level and the garbage is a major contaminant, it's on fire, it's being thrown into the river and that's the big problem of this part where the Kopalnik National Park is located and an absolutely protected part of nature. As regards the second issue, which is very important, and which was initiated by the Ecoclub Association from Aleksandrovac, you are a question of mini hydropower plants, but not in the domain that they should not be made, but that the contractors in accordance with the projects and procedures are doing so, because in this part of the Kopalnik region, where there are mountains Kopalnik, Željin, Goč, Jasprac, we have a large archaeological site called Koznik. It's mountain-mounted rivers with first-class water, clean rivers where total suspension of water leads to irregular construction and total destruction of nature, but also of healthy forests and when the forest collapses, there is a deforestation of roads, land and stone road, which threatens both the local population and tourists who come increasingly in this part of Serbia, the Kopalnik and the above mentioned mountains, but destroys and the natural wealth, both the plant and animal world. It is very alarming and indeed I have repeatedly pointed out to Minister Trivan to come visit this part of the Costa Rican region so that this strategy could be covered and to stop this process of destroying nature. So the question I have raised concerns the creation of a strategy under negotiating Chapter 27 that this part of the Kopalnik National Park should be covered as soon as possible within the framework of the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69573	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69574	Thank you. My question comes up to one part of the question of a previous colleague. It concerns the ruthless scenes in Montenegro, Podgorica since last night, which are only a confirmation of the escalation of the situation that occurred there after the adoption of a controversial, controversial and scandalous law on religious freedoms which is, in fact, not all that, which is the SPC in general, the Patriarchy, as well as episcopies and episcopies operating in the territory of Montenegro that have unequivocally marked and assessed as discriminatory that act and that it endangers religious and human rights and members of the SPC and the Serb people in Montenegro. They have shown envious restraint, but also the determination that we should all be proud of in protest against the law. However, it has been seen that this peaceful and dignified protest has only been further irritated and angered by those who have probably initiated the adoption of this, I say, a shameful and more problematic law, and now we have already come to physical violence. My question goes to the address, of course, of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Ministry - what is it about this business and whether anything will be done, except that with these addresses and others, we are constantly getting either calls or warnings and statements that we must be smart, thought about not getting worse, we must not pour oil on fire or anything like that? That's what everyone from the president said, through the prime minister, to the foreign minister. The other day here in the Assembly of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, he submitted a report by Minister Ivica Dacic, Foreign Minister, and he usually spoke eloquently about many things, but on this key topic, in fact, he did not say, practically, anything, except that we must be calm and not make things worse. All I agree with, here, we were calm, restrained, we didn't make things worse, we didn't pour oil on fire, and we reached no edge, but practically to already physical incidents and attacks by aggressive supporters of this law and the regime of Milo Djukanovic. So it has proved that this strategy is simply neither smart nor wise nor contributes to solving matters. So, whether we finally believe or not, our ministry, I asked the foreign minister directly, practically, did nothing. There are one statements at press conferences, one is a statement on the show or by the way to the journalist, and something else is when you send it as an official note to the foreign ministry and to the government of another country. So it's not done anything. Moreover, they are, Podgorica has been giving us notes and has criticised us for these protests and some incidents at the protest against the law outside the Embassy of Montenegro in Belgrade. My second question, unfortunately related to this, is also going to the address of the Prime Minister, but now the Ministry of Transport, or the minister of traffic, concerns these agreements that somehow took place, or at least an announcement of an agreement between Belgrade and Pristina, first on the establishment of an air line between Belgrade and Pristina, which was so theatreally accompanied by even a greeting and a tweet by the President of the United States. The NATO Alliance's secretary-general also sent a card to the signatories, the US president's special envoy quoted one of the small-looking things as the aircraft line's outpost. Now, yesterday, we were witnessing that the conversation continued in shape and towards the establishment of a direct railway line between Belgrade and Pristina. In principle, it may also be a positive thing, but I think a little mystery or at least a mystery which is covered by Belgrade's, on the Serbian side, these talks raise doubts whether these talks are, so I ask the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Traffic whether they are guided in accordance with the Constitution of the country, whether with resolutions concerning this topic, including Resolution 1244 or in some way indirectly or directly into the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia? If it is an internal line, whether it is a plane line or a rail traffic, unless it has elements of an international line and an international agreement to be signed by some representatives of Serbia and so on. The Republic of Kosovo, then, we support it, otherwise it is the reason for the most urgent and most energetic step-by-step of such a kind of dialogue, which, in fact, leads to recognition and reconciliation with Kosovo's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69575	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69576	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I'd like to ask the D.A.'s office a few questions about war crimes. It is well known that during the 1990s in the armed conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, the Serb people suffered huge and brutal casualties. I remind you that more than half a million Serbs have been expelled from today's country of Croatia, that over half a million Serbs have also been expelled from today's Federation of BiH, and that more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. During the 1990s, brutal crimes against Serb civilians, prisoners of war occurred in the former Yugoslavia. He'll mention some of those facts. In today's Croatia, the Serbian people have suffered numerous crimes during and after Croatian military and police crimes. I remind you that more than 70,000 Serbs were expelled in the Western Slavonia area during the autumn and winter of 1991 and over 2,000 Serbs were killed. It is about the criminal actions "Otkos", "Orcan" and "Papuk 91". Serbs also suffered numerous casualties during other Croatian military and police crimes actions, Maslenica, Miljevaci plato, Medak pocket, Flash and as the final act of ethnic cleansing Serbs from the Western Slavonia area, and especially by the evil known action "Storm", which represents the largest ethnic cleansing in post-war Europe, i.e. after the end of World War II. Also, numerous crimes took place against Serbs and in a number of Croatian cities, from Dubrovnik, via Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Gospić, Sisak, Karlovac to Bjelovar, Darovar, Osijek, Vukovar and many other places. Unfortunately, almost none of the perpetrators, organizers and employers of these crimes have been punished. A number of crimes against Serbs have occurred in the BiH area as well. I only mention major crimes, brutal killings of Serbs in the Sarajevo area, then, in the middle Podrinj region of the Birac region, in the municipalities of Zvornik, Vlasenica, Milici, Šekovići, Bratunac, then in the area of the Bosnian Posavina, in the municipalities of Brod, Oresje, Derventa, Brcko and others. I remind you that the first major mass crime took place in the Bosnian area at the end of March 1992 in all of BiH over the Serb people. Major crimes also took place in the area of the western provinces, by members not only so-called. The BiH Army, as well as members of the Croatian Army, the Croatian Defence Council. I recall these crimes, from Mrkonjic town where a tomb of 181 Serbia was found, brutally killed in the area, then crimes in the municipalities of Bosnian Petrovac, Glamoc, Grahovo, Drvar, Sanski Most, Bihać, Bosnian Krupa, Key, Eggs. Also, numerous crimes in the Western Herzegovina area. Not to mention the crimes that took place against Serbs in KIM, from Pristina, Podujeva, Orahovica, Peći, Gjilan, the villages of Klecka, Starogradsko, Gorazdevac and many others. I'd like to ask the D.A.'s office a few questions. First question - how many war crimes charges have the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office filed since its founding since 2003? The second question - what is the exact structure of the indictment against nationality? According to my information, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has since its founding to date, so since 2003, 180 indictments have been filed, and 161 against Serbs, 15 against Albanians, two against Bosniaks, Muslims and two against Croats. I wonder if that's accurate information? The third question – does the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office plan to speed up the process of collecting evidence for war crimes against the Serb people? Whether the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office plans to organise trials together with the Major Court's War Crimes Department in Belgrade, whether it plans to organise trials in absentia, since it is obvious that the judiciary of Zagreb, Sarajevo and Pristina does not have the political will to do so. It's not an independent and professional judiciary. It's an ethnically motivated judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69577	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for the word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski, Biljana Pantic Pilja and Borisav Kovacevic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on proposals for legislation from the 14th to the 20th agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the sittings are being held by Minister Sinisha Mali with his associates. Mr. Mali, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint principled single search on the points between the 14th and 20th agendas. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Here you go, Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69578	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act. The amendments to this law should allow the base and structure of potential investors to be expanded into state securities of value. As you know, the National Assembly passed a few laws last year that further contributed to the development of our capital market, here I mean amendments to the Public Debt Act, to the Alternative Funds Act and to the Investment Funds Act, and today we will further enable foreign investors to invest more money in our state charters of value. That means, if there's a bigger demand, the yield will be smaller. So the interest rate we pay will be less. It is a great success for our country and another confirmation of our financial stability and trust that investors have in our securities of value. In addition, as you know, we have opened Chapter Four with the EU, a chapter relating to the free movement of capital. So, another confirmation of all the efforts we've made, not only that our public finances are stable, but that we further develop the capital market. Last year, the Republic of Serbia, as you know, returned to the international capital market again. We had two very important bond emissions. One emissions of a billion euros. We had a 1.6% contribution, a second 550m-euro emission with a historic low yield, so a historic low interest rate of 1.2%. These are things that show how much Serbia has changed, because you have an increasing number of investors who believe in our country, who give us money for the investments we are doing and for a longer period of time, at never a lower interest rate. What's particularly important to me, you had that news from last week. Serbia was first placed on the so-called so-called. J.P. Morgan's "Food List" index relating to developing countries. That's the goal we've defined since 2014, it took us a couple of years, as you can see, to get there. Now, on that list, we'll be about 90 days, right after that, I expect that we'll become like the Republic of Serbia and our records of value form part of that index. This is one historic thing for us, at least for those who deal with the capital market, that means that all those who follow that index, all investors who follow that index, that is the largest and most reliable index that monitors developing countries, will also have to buy charters of value from the Republic of Serbia. So, an even greater demand for these papers, an even lower yield, an even lower interest rate, an even greater incentive to further develop our economy. Finally, what is good news for you, and I think it is very important news for the citizens of Serbia, we will for the first time, as far as tomorrow, have a bond emission in the euro for a 20-year period. So, so far, the bonds we've been broadcasting have been on a period of up to 10 or 15 years, and we're going for the first time on bond emissions for 20 years. The volume itself is not big, 150m euros, but for us very important, because if someone is willing to show you confidence for 20 years, it says in favour of how much Serbia has changed, how stable we are now, and how much trust investors have in our economy. In addition to the 20-year bond emissions issued in, or denominated in euro, we will also have a bond emission in dinars over a period of 12 years, thus even longer than it has been so far. So not only are we building so-called. The wrong contribution, rather than showing how much Serbia has changed, because everything you do in the area of public finance, everything you do in the area of the economy, is ultimately confirmed in the international capital market just like Serbia is doing today. So, I hope that in the voting day you will support this law, further strengthening the capital market here in Serbia, further strengthening confidence in our country, incentives for completion and the "Serbia 20-25" programme. So the big investments are waiting for us, which we're going to finance at exactly the low interest rates with the trust we have in our financial system, we're going to be able to accomplish that. You are also facing today the draft legislation on censuses, households and apartments in 2021. So, the list, the next list, is waiting for us that year and this law regulates the preparation, organisation and implementation of the population census in the Republic of Serbia for 2021. Also before you is the proposal for a law confirming a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is an agreement that is related to a competitive 45.8m-euro agriculture. So, extra money for our agriculture. Also on the agenda is the draft law confirming a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is an additional funding for a project to improve the land administration in Serbia, 21m euros. You also have before you a bill to confirm the credit agreement between the Republic of Serbia and T.C. Ziraat Bankasi and Denizbank of Turkey, which is financing the construction of a 24m-euro Novi Pazar-Tutin road, Sremska Raca-Kuztin bridge via Sava and a 250m-euro project for the Požega-Cotroman stock. Also on the agenda is the draft law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the procurement of vehicles for the "Serbian train". It's about getting 18 new electric furniture for our railways. You also have before you the proposal for a bill to confirm a framework loan agreement for LD 2009 (2019) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, and concerns a project loan for the construction of a new University Children's Clinic in Tirshovo 2, so with a project that is really progressing, this agreement will provide a total of 75m euros, of which the Bank participates with 54, the rest is provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget. So with this project and with this promise that we have now made, that is, by adopting this agreement, we will be one step closer to achieving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69579	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. We are now moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Mr. Alexander Stevanović. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69580	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of five interesting laws concerning contracts signed by the Republic of Serbia, which in four cases are in charge and in one case issue a guarantee of debt related to another loan. Also, we have the List Act, which inevitably awaits us every decade, as well as this, as well as a minor amendment to the law regarding the capital markets. If we start from the capital market, the changes act at first glance of a rather technical nature, however, they open up the possibility that the capital market that we have, just like the financial market in general, remains quite in one dead state which has been going on since 2007 and the full collapse of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, the possibility is that this process of deepening the market, diversification of the sources of funding and even better public debt management and even public finance, but also private ones, is working in a better way. Three members change, change refers to the possibility that some other participants in jobs that have not been envisaged for them so far, and on the other hand that is one shift for the best. It is not a colossal shift, but it is a shift for which the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party cannot say anything bad. On the contrary, that's quite all right. I would pay a little more attention to the loans, because when we look at the portfolio of four loans and one guarantee, with which is also a single loan that is clearly listed, as well as its characteristics, although this is about the guarantee, at least when it comes to the IBRD, and there is a different degree of success in getting good conditions. While we can say that, for example, the interest rate on IBRD loans was quite decent, while the interest rates on ABRD loans were also extremely decent, at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we were committed at the Euribor interest rate plus 1 margin, with the ABRD and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is Euribor plus 0.5, we were left with options in most of these loans to cross and in a different way of accounting, if it turns out to be a good practice. Also, the pens that are scheduled are also quite reasonable, and good public management will not allow it to reach the penalty. Access, when it comes to ABRD, access fee is extremely small, 0.25, IBRD is 1%. The deadlines are also solid lengths, they correspond fairly to some reasonable deadlines for similar projects in the world, it is 12 years for loans concerning project activities covered by the ABRD, three years starting, or when it comes to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is 15, with a start of four. However, while we also had a history of negotiations with the Turkish Zirat Bank, or with the union that exists, banking, it's interesting that we got 2.5% as a fixed interest here, which is much worse than the interest on all other loans, that the access fee is 2.5%, the foam is 0.75, more than that, so we come to a conclusion, although this credit would sometimes be fantastically shown, it is at this point in its quality, when it comes to the financing of the Republic of Serbia, significantly deviates from the loans we draw from European and international development organisations. What I would like to hear after my presentation with the Honorable Minister is - is there in the very nature of the project an advantage in terms of the cost of implementation that we received from Turkey when we entered that arrangement, which can replace the relatively higher interest that we will pay, because 2.5% compared to Euribor plus 0.5 margins, that's 1.5% on 200 million, that's three million a year, and if we have equal payments it accumulated on about 20 and change millions during the repayment of the loan? So that's the question if we could do better, and did we just have to take it from the Zirat Bank? Once again, three or four years ago, this would be an incredible success from the interest rate. But we see that we can do better now, so my question was whether we had to use that funding source, which is not impossible, but then the question arises whether the Turkish offer was more competitive than any possible alternative to justify that funding cost? When it comes to the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, I, as the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party does, read the contract very carefully. They have one approach that is more project-based than these other development banks, a bit of a reminder of some competitions for some projects that are much more from the work of the Council of Europe. Here we have a number of tranches that we can draw funds from. However, I have carefully watched and failed to find, except, as it is said, that we can choose between a fixed and variable rate, which is quite all right and that is one great benefit. Access fee is nonexistent, no foam, which is all great stuff, that it's 54 million. The only thing that remains unknown to me is that I don't instruct anything to hide there, especially since we can give the Council of Europe any objections about its functioning in relation to the circus with some countries that have little time to go out, the hour has little to do with us, but we can't say that the organisation to which honesty, how can I say, is not the quality of the work in the first place. But my question is -- and what is the interest rate at which we can drag each of the tranches? Or, if it's not in the contract, and we're calling for some rapper interest rate, where can it be found, because even those who have interpreted the contract in the reasoning have made a great effort, but they haven't put the interest rate anywhere as one of the key elements of the contract that we're signing? So that's one question. Knowing the Council of Europe, I am convinced that this interest rate will be the lowest possible. However, in order to be able to reasonably discuss public finances and not be surprised later when it drags each of the tranches for an unusually significant project of reconstruction of the hospital in Tirshovo, the question is, at what rate will we draw the funds? When it comes to the very purpose of these five international contracts, when it comes to a guarantee of 100m euros, the fact is that only a crazy man without a state guarantee would continue to give "the railways of Serbia" 100m. It's a reality. The railroads have collapsed almost since I was born, sometimes faster, sometimes slower. There used to be faster, sometimes slower reforms, I'll tell my colleagues, there's no problem, sometimes no, sometimes no ruin. Generally, at this point, we have some reforms that are happening in the Railways, but I think it will be more years before they can withdraw their own credit for improving their basic assets, and it will be enough for them to guarantee only their own assets or, better yet, their good balances. It's simply not the situation and it won't be. What is important is that the situation is improving, if at all possible, and that these 100 million do not fall, as it has been a tradition for years, on a beautiful day, or in fact a slightly uglier day, to the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. Also, when it comes to these other loans, I can say that catastran is one of the areas that can be said to continue to work pretty badly in Serbia, that there are many frustrations of people who use cadastre, that many have spoken – take out the cadastre and that, I say, is one silver bullet for a good result in elections and so on. Catastra's got a lot of work to do, and that job costs money. On the other hand, the Modern Serbian Party can say nothing wrong, because we intend to have better land-book management and even better land-use management, because for a successful capitalist economy private ownership rights must be sacred, and in order to know whose private ownership rights we must have proper registers in which we will know who the real owners are, what burdens there are on real estates, what properties these properties are, where the country, who owns the country, who has the right to use, etc., and that this system is in line with other public administration information systems. It is a long job, and I believe that whoever runs the government of the Republic of Serbia in the next term will have a good job to do when it comes to land management and the rights that arise. Also, when it comes to the law on the construction of a hospital in Tirsh, I say, except for that unknown who stayed with me, I hope that it will be clarified, there's nothing we can say against it. What the shame of the Republic of Serbia was, was that "Tirshova" for years was an example of something that didn't work, an example of the collapse of the state, an example of poverty, an example of non-functional health. At the very end of the line, it's good that we now have quite enough resources, both from the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and from our own resources that one ugly episode, I have to say, we take care or not enough concerns off the agenda. That's less what it would be, since generally quiet, is, five laws quite clear, which stands in contracts and most of these contracts are typical. When it comes to the census, to return to that at the end of the exhibition, it is good to coordinate statistics with the EU. Many say we get nothing from the EU, and it turns out, let's say, that the EU's job will be financed by 80%. It is a pity that they do not praise what they are doing in Serbia, for improving our mutual relations and for entering Serbia into one of our large common homelands, which will happen, I hope, sooner rather than later. It's good, is, what we're going to do about this list, but in a different way, so it's going to be combined, electronic paper, and in the future we're going to move on to a system of registers that's going to be even better, when it comes to having, not just estimates, but rather accurate data on all relevant statistical indicators at all times. Because without good statistics, there is hardly any good planning of any process in the country, planning institutions, planning development and even the development of a country. I would point out that this time we have missed some things to do on the list, but I will not talk about the subject, will one of my colleagues who will point out that there are no groups listed in our society, which would in many ways help to improve their position and that a better state policy is being conducted at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69581	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69582	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, just a moment to correct you. So, in the light of the List Law, you have an exact percentage of how much is financed from EU funds and how much from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So from budget 51.5%, the rest is from EU funds, so it's not the EU 80%. What I'm particularly pleased with, and that's what I wanted to comment on, is that at the beginning of your exposure, you said how much interest rates changed at this point compared to some period six, seven, eight, nine, ten years ago. Just remember, in my presentation, I had the opportunity to say something about the bond emissions we had last year, interest rate 1.2%, 1.6%. Remember, it was 7.25%, 7.40% 2012, 2013. So there are huge differences and that's very important. So the capital in Serbia is no longer expensive, going down. It's important, not only for our country that finances its public works by doing that, you've seen the projects we're talking about today, but, of course, for companies that get more competitive and favourable loans, better interest on the basis of which they buy equipment, invest further, hire, create new jobs. So it's no accident that at this point we have, not only stable public finances, but we also have a lower unemployment rate, we have a clear, defined and stable rate of growth in our economy and a public debt that is completely under control. A few things I just want to answer to the honourable MEP about the CEBA. They have a special approach to defining interest rates. So they leave you open whether you as a credit user want to determine for a fixed or variable interest rate at the time of withdrawal. Their interest rate, I have a table here, so I'm going to read it to you, so here's a couple of projects that we have, so after the King's earthquake rescue project, it wasn't even an interest rate, it was zero. Then the next project was 0.25%, interest rate 23, prison construction project in Kragujevac 1.11%. So, a few days ago, I can't remember what loan it was, we had the opportunity to withdraw the money, and we set ourselves up for, say, a fixed interest rate. The interest rate was 0.15%. So, very conveniently, these are interest rates that we couldn't even dream of just a few years ago, but it's good, because this shows how responsible our economic policy is and, after all, the trust of investors who invest and make money and work projects together with us. You talked about other interest rates, and especially for me, this interest rate that you mentioned yourself, which is linked to investors from Turkey, is important. You have this one thing that's very important. So when you look at the portfolio of investors that the Republic of Serbia is working with, we try to be as diversified as possible, not to depend on only one institution, to open co-operation to a large number of other countries, following very difficult talks and negotiations with the Turkish side, this lasted between six and eight months. We reached an interest rate that was the only possible moment. I can admit that it is something higher than the interest rate of other loans, and bear in mind that other loans and loans are related to foreign international institutions that again have other policies, this is about two commercial banks. What is particularly important to me, again it is a much lower interest rate than the ones we are used to and it is a very important project, a continuation of highway construction and new roads in our country, and that is something that I will complete my presentation with. So, the money we take and return, but the money we invest, we invest in concrete projects, projects that are related to infrastructure, as you have seen for the purchase of new train furniture, for the construction of highways, for the construction of Tirshova 2 Hospital, for what raises the quality of our infrastructure and health system and road infrastructure in our country, and this has proved to be the best policy that leads to high rates of growth in our economy and which increases the competitiveness of our economy and which makes our country more attractive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69583	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69584	Thank you. In my discussion, I will refer to the draft law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe, the Republic of Serbia, for a project loan for the construction of a new University Children's Clinic "Tirshova 2" in Belgrade, and my colleagues from the Parliament club will later discuss other legal proposals. The existing UDK building "Tirshova" was built in 1936 for paediatric care services, to be renovated for the first time some 60 years ago and the second time about 30 years ago. 7/3 VS/MT One of the main problems for the functioning of the current hospital is the lack of spatial capacity, an outdated and inefficient system for heating, ventilation and air conditioning, poor fire protection, outdated and inefficient heating, too many patients and members of their families in inadequate hallways and too few rooms. With the lack of space and absence of special hospital and electrical mechanical systems, all the above points to the only solution and the construction of a new hospital building and the removal of all these shortcomings. In addition to the fact that, due to all the shortcomings mentioned, back in 1989, at the level of the former state, there was a consensus, that it was necessary to build a new children's clinic, the project was never even started until today, and even less implemented. So far, a feasibility study has been completed and an idea solution is currently being developed and an urban project is being done, and after the adoption of the urban project, it will immediately begin with the work of designing a new building, and then with its construction, so that now, more than for sure, we can confirm that in a few months the construction of more than 33,000 squares of a new and half century-expected children's hospital will begin. The planned deadline for building a hospital is about two years later, followed by installation of equipment and finalisation of all other works. But most importantly, this hospital will address the issue of care and care for small patients for the next 30 to 40 years. To provide the necessary funding, the Republic of Serbia has sent a request to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the approval of the partial financing of the construction of a new University Children's Clinic of 54m euros, of which it earned 30m euros, and for the purchase of the necessary equipment, 24m euros and the administrative council of the Bank approved a request on 5 July last year. The total value of the project investment, estimated at 75m euros, including the estimated value of land intended for the new facility. The financial contribution of the bank will provide cost coverage up to 72% of the total project value, while, unlike the full value of the funds, it will be provided from its own sources. In future knowledge of Tirshova University Hospital 2 the youngest patients will be treated according to the latest world standards, and doctors will be able to consult with telemedicine with the most famous experts from around the world. This practically means that, for example, The world's best surgeons from America, Japan or Australia are able to be involved in consultations or perhaps even directly manage instruments on one of the operations in Belgrade. This is the future of medicine, and the Republic of Serbia will try to make all of this available to all Tirshova 2 clinic patients in a few years' time. Tirshova 2 Hospital is not only a new building and equipment, but a completely new approach to treating children in a modern hospital, as are their peers in the most modern countries of the world. In line with the experiences and with the most prestigious hospitals in the world, children will receive treatment in playroom-like hospitals in this new hospital, while the most difficult sick children will stay in equipped rooms with their parents. Unlike so far practice in hospitals, all rooms will be exclusively single and double. The hospital will have great flexibility, i.e. The fluidity of the department, by adapting the entire hospital to the current need, so, let's say, the orthopedic ward won't sound empty, while the crowd is, for example, busy. in cardiology and vice versa, already parts of the building will easily and quickly change their purpose towards the internal dynamics of individual situations. In view of the fact that in the period 2015 to 2018, the existing children's clinic in Tirshovo had over 170,000 medical consultations and nearly 75,000 days of hospitalisation in hospital units, it is unnecessary to talk about the importance of this project, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but for the whole region. But most importantly, by ending this discussion of mine, is the fact that thanks to Tirsh's 2, the state budget fund used to treat children abroad will be significantly relieved, that it will reduce the need for public calls to collect money for the treatment of certain children, because many of these patients will be treated right here in Belgrade. So far, for some conditions, even though we had a trained frame, we sent our children abroad because there were no conditions for the necessary appliances. By building Tirshova 2, that will not be the case. This applies, above all, to the youngest cancer patients, but also to rare diseases and other life-threatening conditions. In the end, all I have to say is that the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement - People's Peasants - United Peasants' Party, will support both this and the other legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69585	Thank you, Mr. Bag. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69586	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, co-workers and fellow MPs, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, will support all laws on the agenda of today's session. My colleague Bačevac will talk about the law regarding the agreement on the road construction of the New Pazar-Tutin road, and I will look back at all other laws because there are plenty of them, and I will see to it that I can make a point of saying something about every law. First, I would like to refer with a few words to the amendments and the additions to the Capital Market Act, as one colleague said, it is not a major change, but I would say that the importance of these amendments is proportional to the number of amendments, i.e. one, it seems to me, rather significant law, i.e. quite significant amendments and additions to the law. This law is a direct consequence of its changes and additions, which are the direct consequence of the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt adopted at the end of December of last year, which provides for the possibility for foreign investors to deal with what has not been possible so far, which is by clearing and Salding financial instruments whose publisher is the Republic of Serbia. This has so far been in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Central Register, and now we are opening practically one new option. To say, it is, in a certain way, an indirect consequence, the indirect consequence of our desire to develop our capital market, that is, to develop our financial market in general, and certainly to borrow as cheaply as possible, that is, to reduce public debt participation in GDP in the future. So we create a new legal framework, making conditions in the Serbian capital market that will allow foreign investors and funds to invest their resources in domestic securities of value in a simple, fast and efficient way. This will make domestic securities more attractive and accessible and will increase, as said by the minister, the base, the structure, as well as the diversification of foreign investors investing in our securities of value, which will certainly result in a reduction in interest rate in some future and, of course, should result in a reduction in public debt or a reduction in its participation in GDP. I will remind you, in some earlier times, we have been in debt at far lower interest rates and when we replace these interest rates with lower interest rates, of course, public debt participation in GDP will be reduced in the future, i.e. by converting the values foreseen by the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia, which is the value of 45% of GDP. How important, i.e. how important and timely it is, and how important this is, that one of the world's largest and most reputable financial institutions, JP Morgan has decided to list our government bonds by the end of the next quarter by the latest half of the year, which will certainly increase the reliability of our government bonds, to which foreign investors will certainly pay attention, in addition to these changes and the additions of the law, I am sure, to increase, to say, the competition on our capital market, which must result in a reduction of interest rates, i.e. a cheaper debt to the Republic of Serbia. The next law I'd like to say a few words about is the Law on a loan agreement, a project for competitive agriculture. It is a 50m-dollar loan, or those at the time it was signed converted into euro, and it is a loan, according to the minister, 45.8m euros. This loan is primarily for small and medium-sized agricultural producers not covered by IPARD measures. Why does it come to this? Because the IPARD programme, regardless of its many benefits, i.e. large funds that make available to our farmers and under very favourable conditions, it has for some of our own, and especially for small and medium-sized agricultural entrepreneurs very complicated conditions for application for these funds. For this reason, the state has decided to withdraw one credit through which it will, in practice, allow small and medium-sized agricultural food producers to come to these funds in a simpler way, but also through these funds, except that they will invest them for essential training investments, so to speak, that they can use the funds from the IPARD programme in the future. Therefore, the primary objective of this loan, i.e. the funds defined by this loan, is to increase the production and business capacity of small and medium-sized agricultural producers, increase their productivity and strengthen the market links they will achieve through those funds. Achieving the most important goal is planned through two mechanisms. One is the provision of technical support necessary to write business plans and to make investment decisions, and the other is practically funds, i.e. grants or so-called grants, which are defined for users, or end-users, through which they will finance their investment in capital, in working capital, in the technical support they need, but also in training to acquire the necessary knowledge. One of the necessary knowledge is that they will be trained in the future to apply for funds from the so-called IPARD programmes. The second part of the loan is intended in advance to improve the digital capacities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to support modern agriculture. It is about the means to be used to obtain hardware and software, to strengthen human resources and, of course, to technical support for the construction of a single information system, which will be able to collect and analyse information that is relevant to agriculture and after the results it receives through that analysis are presented to the interested public. Interested public are here in the first place, of course, agricultural producers, both small and medium, which we are talking about in this law, so of course all other agricultural producers and, of course, the Resort Ministry. Finally, to say that this is an extremely favourable loan, since, as one colleague has already said, the credit price, i.e. the interest rate is equal to the six-month Euribor plus 0.5%, since the six-month Euribor at this point is minus 0.32%, this means that the interest rate is practically 0.18%. It's a 12-year-old loan and a three-year period. The next law is once again a loan agreement, this time to improve the land administration. A $25 million loan, re-converted into euro at the time of signing the contract. And here we have three let me put it this way, the basic goals that we want to achieve through the application of the funds that we're going to get in this loan. The first is to improve the framework for the assessment of the value of immovableity and the system for the collection of annual property tax, because it has been observed here that there are certain inconsistencies, i.e. inconsistencies, and this needs to be removed, i.e. to do one, so to speak, a unified system at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia. The second thing is to strengthen the eGovernment in the domain of access to immovable information and this is probably the most important part of this project and, therefore, most of the financial resources provided for in this loan are also located for it. These funds include, first of all, the establishment of an integrated IT system for immovableity cadasar in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, so the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia is covered, and the information system will also be interoperability with all other state registers in the Republic of Serbia. The second thing, very important, is the implementation of national geospace data infrastructures, implementation of the digital and analogue central archive management strategy and, ultimately, the implementation of the system for electronic issue of building permits, by system all in one place. So we further improve the system of issuing electronic permits, building permits, regardless of what we are right now, in that domain we are in ninth place in the world, according to that famous Duing business list of the World Bank. Finally, one part of the funds, let me say, in this second part of this loan is assigned to the construction of a central archive facility, so to speak, analoguely, under the terms of the quote, or that paper archive that we also need. The third part, i.e. the third component of this loan, is to improve the quality of the Republic Geodetic Institute through strengthening its capacities, through the completion of the Digital Catastrian Plan and the improvement of national reference infrastructure. When we complete this process on which we are working, obviously very seriously, complete digitisation in the area of land administration, then the expected effects are to significantly increase the efficiency, transparency, reliability and availability of a system for management of immovable property in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to significantly strengthen the market for immovable property in the Republic of Serbia. It's something that's very important. First, I think it is clear that this is important, whatever we are talking about, but given the fact, yesterday the minister said, that in the last five years the number of sites in Serbia has increased by 300%, then it is clear how much a growing need for a very modern system that will regulate the immovableity in Serbia and which, of course, will provide all the necessary information to all the participants in the immovable market. This is again about an extremely favourable loan, under exactly the same conditions as the previous loan. So, an interest rate of 0.18%, a maturity of 12 years, and a period of three years. Next law, once again one loan agreement, this time a loan for the purchase of vehicles for the Serbian train company. This is a pretty big one, let's say, a loan, in terms of the amount of funds that are withdrawn, 100m euros, for the purchase of 18 motor vehicles for regional traffic. When we consider that the company "Serbian train" already has one credit that is active, so to speak, which is intended for the practical modernisation of five electric furniture that are not currently in traffic, and will be returned to traffic, so we dramatically modernise our company "Serbia train", that is, our main passenger carrier in the Republic of Serbia. When we consider a very important fact, which is that we have a very specific commitment in the last few years, almost a decade, to improve our railway infrastructure, I will remind you, yesterday the minister spoke of it, we have reconstructed about 300 kilometers of rails in recent years. We're building a fast track of Belgrade-Budapest. This year is due to open a share of Belgrade-Star Paz, next year to Novi Sad. We want the entire Corridor 10 to be a fast track, which is extremely important to us, because we are probably becoming one of the most important railway hubs in this part of Europe. When we take all this into account, then it is imposed on us to implement the renovation, so to speak, under the so-called "Serbian Train" fleet, because at this point it is practically available with outdated vehicles, whose maintenance price and use is extremely high, whose reliability and availability is extremely low, because they are very often broken down, as they will say, the only possible answer to this is the purchase of brand-new electric furniture. Regardless of what the Yugoslav railways were called at that time, at one point transformed into three completely independent legal entities, these three companies and today, or their business is interlinked and conditioned and metaphorically expressed, we can view them as one system of connected courts. So if you invest in one of these companies and not invest in another, you will not only benefit from it, but you will have negative effects, or you will have, as our people say in the jargon of waste money. Because if you have a modern railway infrastructure, and you have completely out-of-date means of transport, then that railway infrastructure, its significance is absolutely nothing, because you don't have the means to transport passengers properly. So, if we want to, and we certainly want to make rail traffic competitive and if we want it to bring more revenue and to dissipate other types of traffic, here in the first place I mean road traffic, whose capacities are limited, because the highway has limited capacity, and you, when you make a two-wheel track track, the capacity of the maltenes is unlimited. Not to mention how much more polluter it is, say, road traffic than rail traffic. We simply have to invest in means of transport, or in a rolling stock, so to speak, the enterprises of the "Serbian train". This is about one extremely good loan again. The interest rate is 6 months Euribor plus 1%. So this is about 0.68% interest. And here, as with those previous loans, it gives us the possibility that in the event of a need or if we don't fit interest, it converts interest, or if that other interest is better suited to us, we can convert interest into a lower one that suits us more. The maturity is 15 years, and the period begins for four years. I would say the most important loan, at least for those of us who are parents, is a law on confirming a project loan for the construction of the Tirshova University Children's Clinic 2, which, however, will not be located on Tirsh Street, but will be relatively close, to say the least. The University Children's Clinic in Belgrade was founded in 1924, not in this place where it is today, somewhat lower in Knez Milosa Street, in a private house, it was a very small clinic. In 1940, when this building was completed today, it moved into a new building. She was the feather of our medicine back then. The following year, unfortunately, she suffered serious damage in the six-April bombing, but after several days she continued to work and, I say, after 1945, she continued to work and had several reconstructions and extensions. However, the needs were much more unsatisfactory to meet these extensions and redecorations, and at one point it simply came to the conclusion that a new clinic had to be built, not to mention what my colleague Torbica had mentioned, that this clinic was becoming more unconditional every day, which is because of the large number of patients in the rooms, which is because of the operating halls that were built for some other times, which are now becoming too small, which is because of the various systems that simply time ran over. We today have an agreement, or project that we have been waiting for years, I would dare say, for decades, especially our children, and because of our children, perhaps better said, we as parents, and I would say doctors who gave their maximum in the conditions they had and with the devices they had pulled out of, I would say more than maximum. As today's clinic, which we are still using, was built on the reputation of a Parisian Children's Hospital, was of course then, I said, the feather of our medicine, and the future clinic that we are going to build, which will be partly done in the reputation of a Children's Clinic in Helsinki, is a clinic that will be built according to the world's highest standards. From having only single and double rooms for the accommodation of our youngsters and possibly their parents, through spacious operating halls, such as today, equipped with state-of-the-art medical devices to apply the latest methods, any diagnostic, any monitoring methods, any treatment methods. As has already been said, Mayor Radojicic announced that he will be able to include foreign doctors through the video link and participate in operations, even if they manage remote some of the medical devices that will be used in this future clinic, and that is what is announced on the Council of Europe's development site, that this clinic will be trained even for robotic surgery. Many of the benefits of this project, from the obvious ones, are the increase of comfort for our young people and their parents, through greater efficiency in providing health services, to increasing the rate of recovery, easier to resociate small patients, but also reducing costs through reducing the number of needs for our children abroad. All of this will, of course, be done in accordance with the latest recommendations and the highest standards of the World Health Organisation and the European Union. At the end of a few words, if I get there, about the census, households and apartments in 2021. So one very important list, because we're doing it in a whole new and different way than we've done so far. It is a general test for future lists that will be made on the basis of the register, which will allow us to have a completely different dynamic of the census, i.e. we will be able to perform the list much more often and more easily. It is important, of course, and from the point of view that the comparison of data will be much higher, because for the following year lists are planned in all EU countries and all countries signatories of the EFTA agreement, almost the whole of Europe next year for lists, i.e. the data will be much more useful. This is the first list in Serbia's long-standing history of censusing since 1834 and not being done in a traditional way, i.e. by filling out paper questionnaires, but by getting data into laptops, which will be, I would say, very significant because in this way, apart from getting far greater quality of reliability and accuracy of data, through some new innovative processes of the list, we will have the opportunity to analyse the data in a lot more ways than it was possible in the past. One more sentence to finish. Thanks to the focus that the state and government place on digitisation, we practically have today a large number of advanced administrative databases and these databases will be the basis for future lists based on registers, because we in these registers will essentially have accurate data in real time. Once again, the SDPS parliamentary group will support all the laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69587	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69588	I thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group will also support this second set of laws in a second joint search, so in that sense, I would like to inform you that, in the day of the vote, we do not have a dilemma about the quality of these laws. However, as far as my discussion is concerned, it will focus on two laws that are here, according to us, in the SPS parliamentary group, very interesting when it comes to watching citizens in relation to what we are doing today, or what laws we are making, which are in any case the law on changes and additions to the Capital Market Act, as well as the Census Act. When we talk about the law on changes and additions to the Capital Market Act, then we must start from one fact that is indisputable in any case and we must accept as such, which is that the global capital market has, in any case, affected the reform process in Serbia, and this reform process has resulted in the establishment of a legal framework for the functioning of the Serbian capital market according to world standards. To be completely open and honest, Serbia has drawn very close to these world standards, so that all the unbelieving Tome who has not seen Serbia in this light as Serbia is today, it is being denied precisely the facts of the previous period when it comes to the capital market that is evolving in a positive direction, in a positive direction and gives great results when it comes to investment investment. Why am I saying this? Because Serbia is undoubtedly becoming the Mecca of investment investment and undoubtedly a large number of investors are increasingly affirming Serbia's exactly potentials as a reason for investment in Serbia. This time this investment seems to be where it may be most needed and most useful for each country, and thus for Serbia, which has finally stepped down financially, economically and economically, and has provided the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with a stable, secure life that exceeds that so-called. elemental or existential level. Today we have an extended base of investor structure when it comes to investment in securities of value. We now have a situation for foreign investors to invest far more in domestic securities than values, which in any case implies a far higher level of investor confidence, when it comes to Serbia. What's very important to point out are the facts they say next. Until recently, we only had a few institutions that related to the functioning and establishment of a legal framework for the capital market, when it comes to Serbia, which are the Central Register, the Deposit and the clearing of securities of value. With this law, respected ministers and respected citizens of Serbia, we move forward and open the door to investors, by norming, setting up, systemising that and legal person, and this foreign legal person, who performs clearing and salinating tasks in accordance with the law, can participate in the capital market when it comes to our country, Serbia, which is precisely this law allows. I think that we have achieved the level at which the respected Minister Sinisha Mali pointed out, that we can rightly conclude that now the euro bond emissions, regardless of what is not a large amount of money, is about 150m euros, over a 20-year period, means something we haven't had so far. So far, we have not had this level of confidence, because no one expected this time period that is rising from five to 10, and now 20 years, to be a security for all potential investors and those who already invest in securities worth investing in Serbia. All in all, given that my esteemed colleague Ivan Bauer pointed out with someone in my opinion the very professional reference aspect of the facts relating to the capital market, I will no longer relate much more to what implies the positive effects of this law, and undoubtedly the most positive effect of this law is exactly what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect and what they are ultimately, we can say freely welcome that investments in charters of value are being carried out more and more and more and that foreign investments are gradually dominating. When it comes to the second law, and it is a very important law, it is the Law on Census, we must point out that this law is extremely well-defined, that this law contributes to establishing through statistical data a lot of what we have not had so far in an adequately systematic manner. The law is passed in a period when Serbia faces numerous challenges and temptations. One of these challenges of temptation is undoubtedly a very poor demographic picture for Serbs. Also, one of the challenges facing Serbia is the outflow of the population, is a large number of Serbian citizens leaving Serbia, of course, for reasons of existential nature, job needs, obtaining adequate income and providing normal living conditions. One of the temptations and challenges that Serbia faces, and related to this law, is the final establishment of a social programme in relation to the social categories of the population, given that Serbia, as I pointed out earlier, is finally coming out of that period that can be characterized as a period of poverty, a period of financial uncertainty, a period of crisis, a period in which we had a very bad transition period after 2000, a period in which there was a huge number of unemployed persons, a period in which the economy was devastated, in which we came into a situation where no one saw Serbia as having a perspective, and that perspective meant a limitation of certain development tendencies, and especially a reduction of resources that Serbia had undoubtedly had, and which were destroyed in this period of five-octobaric changes, and so on. What's very important to point out is the fact that now with this law, which I'm going to say again that it's very well standardized, we have the opportunity to finally sublime statistical data in an adequate way, and that's the data that are not only relevant, but the data on which a lot of things can be improved in some later period, both in the field of social, health, at the end of the economy, and everything else. It's a reminder that when it comes to facial data, it's not just what's called. elemental data, which is said to be generals, are already about data that are relevant to status issues, starting with the status of the family, whether it is about marriage or non-marriage, nationality, mother tongue, religion, educational profile, of course the degree of employment, or whether it exists in the census of categories that include the classification of employees and unemployed. In any case, we now have fully arranged and generalized data which and how will use everything that awaits us after 2021 when this list is finished. The history of the census, as the predecessors said, implies that this is certainly not a newspaper and that we have had many censuses so far, starting from the early 19th century, 1834 or not to make mistakes, about then, and beyond, this dynamic of the census has entered some kind of so-called. The periodical system of the census and this periodicals meant that, at about 10 years of age, the census had to be carried out so that these data, which I said were very significant, could be sublimated and statistically observed, and later used for other needs when it comes to all the interests of the citizens. Sometime since 2001, the population censuses have not literally gone strictly to this period and to this dynamic, but in any case there have been appropriate reasons exclusively for the financial nature which, at some point, made it impossible for the lists to be implemented in an adequate manner. From now on, however, we will have a very safe period, which will be the continuing practice of ten-year censusing. What is very important is that the list of 2021 will establish the total number of inhabitants, the total number of households, the total number of dwellings, their schedules for lower spatial units, administrative districts, or what is said to be persuasive – regions, cities, municipalities, settlements and cities, etc. Finally, we will have all the data relating to vital, ethnic, economic and other categories of population, and in this sense I point out that we are finally committed to those categories of populations that we have not so far devoted to, and these are sensitive categories of the population and not only those sensitive categories in terms of the economic degree of development or the degree of existence, but also all other categories that are somewhere connected to minority rights, starting from national minorities and beyond, which is otherwise foreseen by standards when it comes to the census. What is also said by my esteemed colleagues in previous discussions is that it is very important to point out that this list is done and sophisticated, that the methodology of the list is no longer the same as it has been so far, which is quite logical given the technological improvements, i.e. the progress of IT technology, the introduction of IT technology. So now we're going to have one methodology that involves a fast and efficient census, and hopefully very nearly final data that we're going to have statisticalally processed. What I also consider to be well normised when it comes to this law is the fact that it is properly systematised criminal provisions for all those who participate in the implementation of this law, i.e. the list, and it starts with those who carry out the list, and those who are obliged to provide adequate data, and that the relevance of the data implies essentially nothing more than the accuracy of the data. What does that mean? This means if the data are intentionally or intentionally, tendingly, unlawfully or in any other way not adequate, i.e. accurate, that it implies a counterproductive action that must be sanctioned, so that I think that criminal provisions are also well normised in view of both the level of punishment and the degree of punishment when something like this happens, and I sincerely hope, as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that such a thing will not happen, given our consciousness and our responsibility for something that is very important, and that is precisely the giving of information that, as I have already said, is of great importance. Finally, since I would not comment on the other laws, because they will be spoken of by my distinguished colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, I believe that this set of laws that we are discussing today is worth the attention and that is why we will vote for the same laws, that is, the draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69589	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a pity the Minister of Finance left, I suppose it's justified, because he brought some information here that looks very acceptable at first sight, when it comes to the interest of the state. However, he forgot the minister, whether by chance or on purpose, to say when it comes to public debt, that the public debt on this day is about 23 and 24 billion euros, respectively. The public debt was increased immediately after this coalition came to power, that is in 2015. With 15 billion euros, as it was on the day of power takeover, it increased by nine billion, so it's a total of 24 billion. Why is this important that we always remember? No, for reasons to reduce, we minimise the success of this government when it comes to financial policymaking, but for reasons to have a clear idea of the situation Serbia is in. The debt is reduced by a percentage of GDP, however, it is always quite relevant. It is relevant for the reason why what happens if the dinar falls, and it depends not only on the will or better on the will of us who are in Serbia, but depends on a number of other factors. Serbia can easily face such a debt that is now acceptable both in percentage and absolute terms, when it comes to GDP, but Serbia can play a role in those who are credited in Switzerland. Serbia can be in debt slavery very, very easily. Why? Because the structure of this debt, given the government's proposal to issue bonds to Serbia on the international market, is very, very unfavourable. Why? Because the domestic market, or internal debt, is about 9.9 billion. Of which, dear gentlemen, the bonds that have been issued are 9.3 billion euros. This remains 584m euros, it's different loans, and it's very, very bad when it comes to the state of the so-called. Internal debt. Why? Because the issue of bonds, or securities of value, achieves the advantage of attracting capital, i.e. getting the fresh money that is needed over Serbia's development, but that money has a price, given the situation in the European market. In any case, without these standard advantages and conditions, Serbia has a favourable interest, which is given on issued bonds, i.e. to buy bonds from Serbia. The interest in Europe is zero. There's a minus on the means of engagement. This is quite clear and the fact that it stands out here as a great advantage of Serbia, we have to say what is true, it is not a great advantage, because it says that Serbia, that is, sprays the economy and credibility of Serbia, is not exactly at the level it wants to present itself. Why? Well, because on this interest that the minister also made, which will be on the international market, many will reach out for buying bonds from Serbia, because this is a much bigger profit than putting that money on the table, for example, working on savings. There's a lot more interest. What's an advantage when it comes to bonds, it's a low level of credit risk, it's bigger profits than savings in banks, and it's a tax exemption, and that's three big benefits. Anyone who places capital, anyone who wants to increase their capital, will always be defined as buying bonds. Of course, there is also the risk of 12/2 in the category of countries in which Serbia is located. The example is that the public knows, between 2012 and 2016, the Central European Bank has been helping, they say, to develop Greece, to buy and earn 7.8 billion by buying bonds that the Greek state has issued. In four years, the Central European Bank has earned 7.8 billion. That's the help for Greece's development. What a paradox. You make billions in four years, and you help the country that broadcast those bonds. In that part, the Central European Bank's earnings are divided into 19 countries. Germany was 30 percent. It just says what's behind all this when it comes to broadcasting, or trading securities of value, in this case, bonds. As Greece passed, we are witnesses. We know that. It went the way it was the strongest, most powerful, economically most capable state within the EU, and that is what Germany wanted. Greece is still in charge, not to say over-indebted, and the Central European Bank has this way incomed not small funds. As for the other countries, of course, there should never be an impact left out, i.e. the benefit of the United States, France, the Netherlands, etc. It's not just one side of the medal shown here by us on the international market to broadcast securities of value, so we're like a country that now has a much higher rating when it comes to the security of equity, so we're going to be incomeing, we're going to benefit. We will, but it's much less useful. Secondly, these bonds are placed with a 15 to 20-year-old billing deadline. There's a folk philosophy when it comes to this way of income. That's what it is. I don't give a shit. It's the logic of the economy run by the one who destroyed Yugoslavia, whose name was Joseph Broz Tito. He's been raising these long-term loans. That Vukadinović knows well. You too, Professor, remember that period. Lived well, lived well. And today you have this fake picture present to many people, where they say – we were much safer when it comes to the financial part. It was, but it was based on credit, and it's not that drastic here. Bonds are issued here, which will allow certain financial privileges, but must be paid after a certain deadline. The minister here says the deadline has increased to 20 years. Well, of course, there's less on that market somewhere than 20 to 30 years old. So in 20 and 30 years, that should be worth it with a certain interest. They're not small funds. And nobody knows or can't say with certainty what fate or reality it will be in about five to ten years. Not because we are the villains of Serbian radicals, but because such an economic economical movement is in the world at all. They are announcing a major economic crisis and it is announced by experts, experts who also warned in 2008 that there will be a major economic crisis in the world, and we have projections here, where maltenes indirectly produce that we are the only ones who are sure that we are not exaggerating, but on a continent called Europe. If this were so good, many countries would do it. We are forced here to strengthen bond broadcasting, possibly strengthen the financial situation, noting that this is both a new and a new borrowing. What the minister says will be placed on the foreign market by a billion, it is Serbia's new task. But there's something very interesting here, and there's a foreign legal entity here that can manipulate, that is, place those bonds that are broadcast by Serbia. So far it has been, two institutions, the Central Register and the National Bank of Serbia, of course, being placed on the market. Since the stock exchange in the right sense, when it comes to the Belgrade Stock Exchange, cannot exist for a number of justifiable reasons, when it is released on the world market, with these bonds it will also be able to manipulate them, to be placed by foreign legal persons. We're introducing foreigners so they can work with Serbia's bonds. And what they say is, what's phobia like, it's not phobia, but you remember those pyramid savings. At least they had the pyramidal savings of success in the villages of ordinary peasants who make money with severe torment. Their philosophy is – everything can grow in other people's hands, but to grow capital, it can't. It's a simple logic of the Serb, the host. When I say a Serb, I don't underestimate even real discrimination among Serbian citizens, and we're bringing a foreigner here to place those bonds. It's something that's a newspaper. The minister didn't say so it should be pointed out. As far as the census is concerned, it's something that is a regular procedure, every 10 years it's done, these lists are carried out. We have stated in our amendment intervention that, when it comes to the census, respondents who do this or the censusors, better said, would have to warn Serbian citizens that national and religious belongings could but did not have to be made known. Why does it matter? It is important that citizens are fully informed in this area, so that there is no misunderstanding. Given that the final results of the census will be processed by the Republic Statistics Office, we already have a certain reserve in advance. Why is it a backup? Not because of the institution, but because of the man who is at the head of that institution. It's a man who's already confirmed himself as a manipulator. It's relative to whether it's below the census or above the census. With him today, due to all the bad experiences, it will be relative to what the national composition is or what the structure of the population is in certain parts of Serbia. You know well that in certain municipalities in southern Serbia there are problems with the functioning of the country's institutions in general, and imagine when you give these data to a man who proved himself to be a good manipulator, from an economic expert who was in G 17+ to the one who determined and literally influenced the results of the elections. Just remember that this sect, Vukadinovic, you were in that group when she entered over 5%, or you later joined them, when it comes to Bosko Obradovic, when it comes to Sanda Raskovic, until the evening they were under 5%, as Scott appears, so they call you Scotts, MPs think that in the right sense of the words they call you in the people, Scott, Kovacevic, who suddenly finds polling stations exactly 5% of the vote in the previous elections. It's the biggest manipulation, it's pure theft, stealing citizens of the state. There's nothing worse than falsifying the will of the citizens when it comes to elections, and you can think of the population list as soon as everything can be served. As for these loans when it comes to agriculture, there is the minister only real enough, not because Nedimovic is present here, but has always accepted all these, under the assumption, help when it comes to loans. It's his theory and his thesis is that he needs to be very careful. Caution as to the conditions under which loans are taken, how they are placed, how this will be reflected in the extreme case or starting point, when it comes to agriculture. As far as these loans are concerned, and regarding the construction of a traffic station, it's always being manipulated here when we talk about that road construction, that we Serbian radicals are making obstructions. Here, the public once found out, we Serbian radicals against borrowing at all costs. Perhaps sometimes it is better to think about concessions, perhaps better than to engage funds through loans where the state is in debt, and the question is whether the profitability of these traffic facilities will ultimately be favourable. Novi Sad-Ruma-Sabac-Republic of Serbia is the most frequent traffic in Serbia. There are those who are interested in making concessions that way, making tunnels, using the road for 10, 20 years. But what's the point here? It's not so much of a point in some economic rationale, it's obviously the tendency of some members of the government to work with strangers. When it comes to foreigners, then it's best to do it on the basis of credit and work done by those same. Why? Because one rule exists, it's a public secret, strangers talk less. The worst thing is to hire domestic performers. Domestic contractors, they will talk, they are related, they are friendly business related to some still in Serbia, and in essence Serbia is not as big, it is known as the percentage, as earned by a single member of the government, and then it takes some dimensions, i.e. some forms that are not desirable for these members of the government. There's a tendency here, obviously, the more foreigners, the less you'll know. There is no secret that can remain eternal and that it is not known, always revealed. The simple logic of things comes to the shift of power or there's a transfer within the government and always the new ones that have come, they're eager to see what's wrong with the ones that used to be. Like you, full of mouths, when I say you, I mean the ruling coalition, full of your mouth what that yellow gang was doing. Here, you spent four years of your term, percentage when you watch, at least 35% of your time criticizing the yellow gang. We have no doubt that most of you are right, though they are right when they return to you, you are the same to us. But the bottom line is, you don't always have to rely on foreign loans. You have a simple and simple logic here, always strangers are more or less interested in building something to use for a period of 10, 15, 20 years. The longer the period, the more acceptable it is for them, and the greater the frequency of traffic, specifically these roads. This is not a bad connection with Republika Srpska, or BiH as it... this credit line with Turkey, but there were much more favourable forms of construction, which is to offer some concessions. There's enough capital abroad. There's enough capital abroad that'd love to be placed. As for all these other loans, we see here in several of these points, it's several hundred thousand euros, or millions of euros just for four items. I apologize for this, but it's millions. Far from talking about hundreds of thousands for a government like this who is willing to be in charge, to provide for a shorter period of time, as the golden age says, in which we just don't know we're enjoying ourselves, but unfortunately most of us don't see that golden age. Obviously that gold shines too much, so we're blinded. We in the SRS insist that you continue to think carefully when you are in debt, whether you are broadcasting securities of value or taking loans from foreign banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69591	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69592	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, I want, above all, to sublime several exhibitions that have been since I entered the hall and to make some comments, possibly clarifications that are important to me for the public. It is very important to say that this whole set of draft laws on confirming different credit borrowing agreements has nothing to do with spending. None of them have anything to do with any of the things that credits were taken there after 2000 to 2010, 2012 or what you said in 1986, 1987, 1990, when most of the funds that were received on the basis of the loan were used or financed by pensions, current consumption or similar things to lead to the assumption that everything is fine or that it works much better than the real picture. In each of these projects, in each of these agreements you have a concrete investment. Now I'd like to try it, if you'll allow me, in a plastic way to explain it. As at your house, anyone's, whatever it is, any MP on the right, on the left, it doesn't matter. When you work well, when you do a good job in the house, when you have some profit, you want to grow. No investment, no development. You always stay on the same level, you get time and sooner or later you eat your matter. If you make three, four, five percent is your profit a year. It takes you, to double, to bring something to a 100% higher level, at least fifteen years of growth so that you have two machines on one machine. So is the highway. If you have GDP growth 4%, 4.1%, 3.5%, 3.8%, you need time, if you keep it in the straw, at least 15-20 years to get that money so you can build it and say it – we do it from budget funds. Today's the time so fast, you live so fast, we don't have time to wait. For this reason, these loans are taken for the realisation of investments. I'm undermining once again - only investment, and that only made it possible for us to grow the GDP we've had for the past few years. The question is, why aren't some other countries doing this? Well, they don't have real growth, they don't have real growth. They don't have anywhere to finance it, and we have somewhere to finance it. Someone will say yes, but you might now take it from those future generations because of those deadlines? Well, we need a freeway today. We need a water network today, we need infrastructure to develop the economy. How can someone come to southern Serbia, anywhere, take any local self-government, whether it's Leskovac, whether it's Vranje, some smaller municipality, if there's no gas? What do they come from? To what do they join? How do we develop the economy? That's why it was undeveloped. Now's our chance. And that's where the whole catch is, growing, not taking credit for the loan. Remember, 10-12 years ago, when GDP was growing, or 4%, and credits were being taken. Now let's try to clarify that thing one more time in relation to Greece, because I heard one comparison. Greece right now, I assume you all know that, has a 173% of GDP debt. In 2015, Serbia had 70% of its debt to GDP. December 2019, underlining 52%, projection 52%... I'm sorry, maybe I got away from the microphone. I don't want to be too loud, so someone can charge me with something. ... and the April 2020 projection is 47.1%. So we're going down all the time. When we talk about risk diversification, our debt was 26.5%, and now it's down to 20%. That means we're going towards reducing the potential risks that we're exposed to outside. The question is, who can offer you any credit support at all, which institutions are these? You see very little here where there are business banks. It's mostly international financial institutions, if I see correctly. The story of what the interest is, what is the price of that capital, when it comes to private companies, when it comes to natural persons, it may be possible to talk about negative interest on the international market, but when it comes to countries, which is more stable and more capable of having lower interest. I remember, and remember that time and you, you're at least 30 years into this, remember everything I guess. Anyone who wants to remember, and anyone who doesn't want to, can get away with it for 200 centuries won't remember anything. So, I remember, seven, eight, ten years ago, when it comes to local self-government or state, it was that capital price of 7-8%, so it wasn't for investment, it was for consumption. That is why we have come into this problem which we are now dealing with with with GDP growth, with the proper management of public finances. That's why public finances are important. There's one more thing I wanted to say, it's handcuffed. On a small deadline, someone only gives you money if you don't have the weight to bring it up when someone doesn't trust you. It's so on the capital market. Well, no one's giving you credit. Turn it every one of you in your house, the more financially stable you are, the more money you have, the more someone will give you a longer payment period than they will give you for six months, a year or any other short-term placements, when they don't trust you. That's why the story of these 15-20 years of manuals is actually the story of stability. There's just one more thing I want to say. It's never been this low in the market, you're absolutely right. That's because you have a state and its attributes that tell you that he trusts you. Well, we don't appreciate our own credit ability and say -- said the Minister of Agriculture that it's BB plus, A plus or anything, but it's some kind of a credible institution. There's no emotion, there's no subjectivity, it's all objectively complete. Sooner or later, in the world capital market, the turbulence of time, there should be no doubt about it. It's your cycles. So it was 15 years ago and it might be 15 again. We can never know that. But that's why we're making as many state reserves as possible, foreign exchange reserves to keep them on one side, to get ready for those turbulent times, and on the other hand to have cheap money. At this point, to build investment infrastructure so that we can raise jobs, that we can raise industry, that we can raise GDP, and that we can get into that whole cycle as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69593	I thank you, Minister Nedimovic. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69594	Let's go first, conditionally speaking, from the back. As you said - the handiwork is increasing. Look, there's been a five-year manual on the internal market so far, and now it's 12 years' chance, depending on whether someone's going to buy these bonds on the internal market. It all depends. We hope so, because interest is above all else, not the political will or the desire of an individual, but the interest. The conditions under which it is placed are favourable. Mr. Nedimovic, you just ignored the fact that from 9.9 billion internal debt 9.3 are bonds placed and purchased on the internal market. Who bought them? They were bought by banks. They were mostly bought by banks. That's quite clear. Because banks are not interested in automation, they are not interested in investing in the economy, Mr. Nedimovic, but are investing in the purchase of bonds because it is safer and more profitable. And that's why we have banks that operate by it, we've already discussed it once, when you come to buy a car, you have a loan right now, when you want to buy an apartment, you have a loan, you have a refrigerator, you have a credit, you have a white technique, you have a credit. But when you say to invest in a small economy in Serbia, they say -- we don't currently finance such projects, come later. Besides, you know it well, on the one hand and on the other. It's something you should consider anyway. As far as GDP is concerned, Mr. Nedimovic, he must be in continuity. He must be in production, most of the production comes out. What's an increase to 4% this year, so we've already discussed it here, that's the Russian flow, that's the works that are related to the Turkish flow. Veroljub Arsic: Lupaš. I hear some unarticulated voices that say I'm pounding. Those voices could be a little quiet. Everybody knows this. In the end, the country's president, Aleksandar Vukic, himself, said during his interview that GDP in the last quarter has grown thanks to Turkey's flow. If he's banging, then it's about time that the traditional man who throws it changes the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69595	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the deputy president of the NS-Position Group for the Rescue of Serbia, MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69596	I could actually advertise the replica for a little bit, because he called me, sillyly mentioning me, colleague Mircic. I hope he's lost it, but since he's repeatedly, not by mentioning my name, he seemed, like some of his colleagues, then I just have to look back on it. I'm saying, I didn't want to distract myself at the start of the exposure with some line of lines. He mentioned at one point, sweetly, as we remember, probably thinking of us a little bit older, as it was with those Tito loans, loans during Tito, wanting to illustrate how to take credit, even when they act conveniently, sooner or later they get paid. I agree with that part of the warning or reminder. This, of course, does not mean that you should never take credit, but just means that you should be careful and not rejoice too much when the country is in debt. But the second part, the second mention of him, when he spoke of skepticism in the results, that is, even in some individuals who are at the head of certain institutions, and he probably meant the director of the Statistics Office, so he illustrated these dilemmas and controversys after the last parliamentary elections, including the former American ambassador, that's what I'd say, the wrong analogy and unfortunate analogy, not because there's an ambassador, whom I call Scott, I don't have any problem because that's what it's called, as well as the writer and writer we've probably read all of them as children called Walter Scott, then the ambassador was also Scott, but in terms of name. But I think some colleagues are deliberately using a different meaning to the name of that former American ambassador. That's not the problem. So I call him that too. Those who want to be nice and politically correct, then say Skat, which is closer to his excuse, but not close to our Serbian transcription of that name. What is bad and what has sometimes been done by colleagues from the ruling party, but they have given up, perhaps someone has turned their attention to them, to say that someone has forced or linked someone, to intervention, to the Assembly, thinking of a parliamentary group, although the elections have actually been repeated in several places and there have been several parliamentary groups confirming their censorship afterwards. You know, there's no greater insult to this country than when you say, even when it's done by some who are members of the ruling coalition, a fellow luxury can afford it as an opposition MP, but, I say, it's very embarrassing when we say it or when they tell someone that an ambassador, anyone, American, Russian, Chinese, put someone into parliament. It is the greatest possible insult not only for this parliament. I've never responded to such calls, they're not often on account, but often they are, some MP groups, and I think it's very bad, no matter what they think of these MP groups. We are actually acknowledging that someone can intervene to tailor the will of Serbian citizens. I don't think there's any greater argument in favour of the boycott of those who advocate the boycott of the election, what counterpart Mircic just said. Now those who express the boycott can be invited to do so, so they say, "Here, you tell yourself how someone can do it, how they want to get in. No, citizens insert, conditionally speaking, with as much control as possible, of course, both internal and domestic and international, if necessary, inserting ballots and someone into parliament as citizens do and throw them out, again, sometimes for a reason and sometimes for no reason. I would simply draw attention not only to my colleagues Mircic, but also to others who weigh that kind of argument, to be a little bit more careful, because that's actually how we derivate ourselves as an institution, not only as a parliament, but as a state, where it's about explicitly, and that's what we've heard here about a dozen times that an ambassador threw or kicked out of the Assembly. Now, as far as this proposal is concerned, a set of laws is coming into my eyes, and I'm also sorry that there is no Mr. Malia, because I've taken over a small mathematical operation, so I've collected only responsibilities based on this basis, that is, on the basis of the laws proposed today, that is to say, confirmation of the agreement and came to the conclusion that it's a figure, what is now to be proposed, and what is likely to be adopted, we owe as a government for the new 440m euros. Mr. Nedimovic had a rather skillful answer and defended it a little while ago, not getting into the details of certain agreements and responsibilities, but it is a fact that needs to be said. I don't see why Minister Mali, in his opening statement, didn't just say that, because it's possible that these are all great loans, it's possible that it's all very justified. We will judge, judge citizens and judge the professional public, but the fact is that today's agenda, we owe ourselves 440m euros as a state. In particular, for agriculture, 45m and 600,000 euros, from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Then, 21m euros for consolidation and promotion of so-called Land administrations, which in our language is collectively referred to as a cadastre, for catastra jobs, 21m euros, also, I think, from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. For agriculture, 45 million and 800. Then, a lot of indicative 219m and 200 000 euros for infrastructure needs, i.e. travel infrastructure, and there is thought of these several roads from local Tutin-Senica there, I think, to these other more important ones, but they are all important to those citizens living in the central part of Serbia. It is a loan withdrawn from the Turkish bank, which is also quite interesting, as the question was asked -- why. A team mentioned in the agreement itself is mentioned that the performer will be a Turkish, therefore, Turkish performer. The investor is ours, but he's a performer, as well as a creditor, and that's not an accident. And if we don't lie, it usually does, and in this case the country, it was the case with Azerbaijan and some others, that credit is given, but it's a condition for the performer to be from their country. It's very reasonable and rational from those countries' point of view, and I'll explain why. I'm not sure if it's always the most rational thing from the point of view of us as the country that takes that loan. So, once again, they give credit and it's a condition for the performer to be once official, and once off the record, to be theirs. Turkish credit, Turkish bank, Turkish contractor. They'll probably hire some subcontractors as subcontractors of some of our companies, but that's something we have to keep in mind. They did it, I say, many times and others, to not only be now that we're here on the poor Turks, doing it in time, and the "Alpine", or Austrian, too, consortiums, or banks that gave their loans, so they conditioned, I say, which formally, which informally. So, 219m and 200,000 euros from Turkey's bank loan, plus 100m, we're getting lost in the account, 100m, despite guarantees this time, for trains, for the purchase of new trains, for state guarantees. Knowing the situation in the railway sector, it is also something that falls on the burden or that is very likely to fall on the burden of the state unless a miracle occurs. Finally, in this single set, 54m euros from, this time, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the Construction of Tirshove 2, i.e. the clinic, a 54m-euro loan, which is when we add up 440m euros of new debts. You're right, Mr. Minister, that it's not that I didn't hear it, that you say -- all of these are for concrete projects, they're not consumer loans, it's not that... Let's... What was it like? Let's just play a game, raise the credits for the fun or for the liquid consumption. But it is also a fact, and you have acknowledged it, and Minister Mali admits it when asked directly about this praise and constant praise and our ministers, the Prime Minister and MPs, often, the ruling majority, is repeatedly pointed out that these are loans under extremely favourable conditions, there has never been anything like that before, and somehow a cover-up or another plan of pushing the fact that these are now such a situation on the capital market. Whether this is zero, 0.2, 0.3 or less is no longer irrelevant when it comes to large numbers, but the fact is that when we wave or the ruling majority tends to borrow or make bonds, government bonds with manuals, or yields, with interest of five, six, seven, and more than seven %, that similar conditions were then and similar conditions were on the capital market. In short, the interest was high. Now the interest, as we're told, and here I agree with my colleague, it's a familiar thing, they're very low, they're often negative, so many big commies and pull money out of the bank, saving it in safes, of course, it can't work, but I'm just citing it as an example, and saving it even in safes just so they don't have to pay the bank to keep their money. So, not that there's no interest, not that banks no longer live on interest, actually, sometimes the problem is that they're so low, if you might have noticed, even as ordinary citizens, suddenly some strange items appear and invoice with ordinary citizens who have some bills, dinar or foreign exchange, anyway, different kinds of services are now being charged because they can't make enough money on this basic function, because that's the situation on the capital market, and then they charge you everything and everything, but that's another thing, it has nothing to do with these loans, or these loans that we're raising. So, my question, I'm going to look to end here without getting into other aspects of this complex topic, is – if the situation is so good, the state of the budget and the perspective is so favourable, why don't we give up part of these loans, because we don't know what's going to happen in five, ten or fifteen years? Are supplies created or not created? I don't want it to be like with these time loans that Tito made, or at least some of them got paid, when there wasn't any more in life than Tito or most of those who took those loans. So, we look forward, I know that there will probably be some colleagues saying that it's great, and probably those who deal with the team say that it's great when the credit is 20 years old, but I'm a regular man and I'm a citizen a little bit, and I wonder who knows what's gonna happen for those 10, 15 or 20 years, especially not to mention the fate of those who took seriously favourable loans in Switzerland 10 years ago, and now I'm talking about citizens who have been taking on the appearance of terribly favourable loans in Swiss, so now they're getting into trouble, and they're all, after all, so the Assembly had to take some measures to make it so much easier to torture these people. Debt is always an evil friend, Mr. Minister, and if our perspectives are so bright and bright, why isn't at least part of this financed from income? Why are items such as the famous national stadium and a group of other stadiums of several hundred million euros being proposed and allocate money in the budget for these needs, Mr. Minister and gentlemen from the ruling majority? Over 200, 250 million is defined for those purposes, for the national stadium. We could have removed more than half of this debt and financed from that money that's being predicted, which is either separate or dedicated to building a national stadium, not to mention other possible things and other possible items and savings. So, I'm not going to, I'm ending it, and I'm going to deny some of the positive things that are being done, and I can't think of that. To commend specifically, when it comes to political aspects, stories when it comes to, say, politics towards Kosovo, this policy since recognition or struggle to withdraw recognition of Kosovo, I always praise and point out that as a result. Also, some of these roads that are being built or built are for every praise, but it seems to me that it has now gone a little bit into manirism and that it has become a little bit carried out, as I would say, these results that in these balances, which we are constantly hearing here, seem to have been little and perhaps carried out by the government itself or by the ruling majority, and then they thought that they could do anything, that they could do both national stadiums and that the road, retailes, highways, through every village, through every end of Serbia, that buildings and apartments could be cheap for everyone, and then it turned out to be barely started, and nothing had yet been completed, and those apartments should be finished cheap for security employees and so on. So, once again, I end up with whether at least some of this could have been a redistribution within the budget, some savings could have been determined, not one day, by one vote, in fact, by the state of Serbia in charge of the new 460m euros, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69597	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69598	The 107th chairman, because the discussion of my predecessor turns out to be MEPs and stupid and blunt, and we don't know anything, that we don't know that the US Federal Reserve in 2008, dropped, in the wake of the outbreak of the World Economic Crisis, its reference interest rate that led to the decline of the euro against the dollar, and then the European Central Bank began to lower its reference interest rate in 2010 to bring it down where it is now. The differences are very small, in 0.1% – 0.2%. And now, I ask the question - are we so stupid and blunt that we don't know that under the same conditions the former regime raises loans with 7.5% - 8%, and my grandmother in Austria could raise by 2%, 3% or 5%? So the market conditions have not changed financial capital in international relations. It also turns out that we are stupid and blunt that we do not know that the domestic loans raised by our domestic economy depend on the reference interest rate of our National Bank, so it turns out that we are blunt and stupid not to know that before 2012 it was 16% and 17% and that the banks robbed citizens with the help of the National Bank of Serbia, Šoškovic, Jelačić, Boris Tadic and all others and the economy as well, and that today the reference interest rate is below 3%. Well, it turns out that we are blunt and stupid not to know that banks are reducing their interest on loans to the population and the economy is the result of a reduction in the reference interest rate since the governor of the National Bank, Jorganka Tabakovic, was led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Turns out we're blunt and stupid, we don't know nothing, and the citizens have trust in us. Turns out citizens who vote for the Serbian Progressive Party and other coalition members are crazy and stupid, they don't know anything, only my esteemed colleague knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69599	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Veloljub Arsic: No. I thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. The right to a replica based on the presentation of counterpart Vukadinovic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69600	I don't understand Mr. Vukadinovic why he's angry. If there is anything in Serbia that is characteristic and recognizable, then it is when certain characteristics define you through nicknames. You can be a doctor of science, you can be a regular worker, but usually your nickname hangs in Serbia while you are small, when you acquire certain qualities, character traits, that nickname reflects in most of the character trait. You know well, colleague Vukadinovic, that the DSS and Dveri coalition, along with Vlaško's party, was below the censorship. And the night the final results were announced, the man at the head of the Republic Statistics Office was the chairman of the commission, it was announced that the coalition was below the censorship. And then there's the pressure. It went so far as to hire a personal American ambassador named Scott. What you say is Scott or someone saying, I apologize, you don't say, in Serbia immediately said these are Scott's MPs. It's not a characteristic of all of you, but you have to wear that cross. You're not the only one here, and I don't see why it offends you. Why didn't you, as an individual, go right in front of the press and say, "I don't want to be Scott, Scott's MP, I'm sorry?" I'm an MP who wants to come in based on the mood of the citizens. You're not the only one. When Boris Tadic seized the anti-constitutional mandates of the SRS, MPs who stole the SRS mandate were Tadic's MPs. There's only two of them here. One is Arsic, the other is Becic. With Arsic, in advance, I do not want to delude, because you have two vain actions, a vain waste of time right now on the political scene, it is that Milo Djukanovic is convinced that the Serb and Arsic are something to explain. That's for nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69601	Thank you, colleague Mircic. You may have no intention of flaunting, but you mentioned a colleague of Arsic, so he has a basis for replication. A colleague, Vukadinovic, too, has a basis for replication, but he first applied to a colleague, Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69602	I was never a National MP for Boris Tadic, and in 2012 I crashed the regime with Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandra Vukic. But I don't know which MP was Bojan Pitiæ? Who kept him in power until 2016? I don't really know, but someone whispers to me that you helped it, some voice tells me, here, some voice. As far as that goes, solve it already, people. So, I heard from a colleague of mine from your MP group that the MPs are the bearers of the sovereignty of the citizens. Here, your colleagues have said that and often have a habit of saying it. I have to admit, they're right, but get rid of whether the MPs are holders of the sovereignty of citizens or political parties bear the sovereignty of citizens. When that dilemma is resolved between those two parrots of yours, who are in a fight in their heads, then come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69603	Since counterpart Vukadinovic gave up the replica, counterpart Mircic, you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69604	I said right away that I didn't want to do anything wrong. I know what it's like to go after a pusher and say he's changed. The BOLO's waiting for it on the knife. This is a time, woolen time. When you tell someone that he stole your wallet, that your money, your money from your wallet, he asked you to have a drink and he paid you for that drink with your money, and he didn't pay you back any money, or your wallet, that's painful. It's painful, I know, but a man has to wear it. That's what politics is about. For all the facts, there's evidence for all of them. It's easy to get up here without a gram of shame, shame, to say that someone supported Bojan Pitiæ. Martinovic, sitting next to, knows the whole story, knows that we were opposed to the policy led by the DS. After all, counterpart Nedimovic is also a witness. He knows what we've been doing and after all this time he's counting on oblivion and he says, now he explains. But it remains to convince Milo Djukanovic that he is a Serb and Arsic to understand something that is smart and logical, it is a waste of time. I don't have time to waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69605	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69606	Well, I don't have to be in someone's party to know what's going on in some parliament, especially when it's country. Also, I've never taken anyone's wallet, never taken anyone's wallet, but no one's ever filled my wallet, like Bojan Pajtic was filling up my esteemed colleague Mircic. So it's loaded, and it's very good. Because, back a little bit, who voted against Bojan Pajtic's shift as head of the province's government? Well, his MPs. It wasn't for nothing. It wasn't because of a political idea. It was for financial benefit. So now I understand why she complains so much about Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic. It seems to me that they filled their wallets well to all those who supported them in one way or another to remain in power until the last day. The Serbian Progressive Party has never bid the number of MPs. If we lose legitimacy, we go to elections, to check both legality and legitimacy. But someone stuck to the AP Vojvodina, although he didn't have a majority, although he lost in all the elections in 2014 and so on, in all the elections he might have lost, he lost full legitimacy, but therefore he filled his wallets with individual MPs and their bosses to stay in power. Guess who it is - Bojan Pajtic, and I don't know who was responsible for the MPs who supported him, and apparently they were the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69607	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69608	For the sake of the public, the controversy here began with colleague Vukadinovic and it is clear that no matter how much he wants to put his emotions away in these discussions, however, some things cannot be seen without emotion. You have a situation in one man's life, all of us. In the younger age when you meet someone who doesn't know you, he asks you who you are. He doesn't even know your father's name, but you always say your ancestors, usually it's Grandpa in Serbia. No such happiness can be described as when you hear from the other side that your grandfather was a decent man, because he's physically gone. That is the fate of most of us in Serbia. A little someone who remembers Grandpa. And when someone tells you that he was a decent man, that he was honorable and honest, it's the greatest reward for one man. There were other cases when they said his ancestor was a fuck. Why? Because he betrayed, because he showed cowardice to other people. When Vojislav Seselj went to prison, it was literally the stone that divided us. Those who have taken the mandate, who have left, will be remembered for it. Those who have gone without a mandate have always remained in the soul and in the heart, in the idea and ideology of radicals. But, interestingly, if you follow, the least they do here is rebel and get up when there's a story about a subject like this. It's always the ones who left first. As for literally if someone was taking a wallet, you were holding money from an SRS MP... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69609	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69610	I know only one thing, it's not my grandfather or Bojan Pajtic, or Boris Tadic, or my grandfather, or my uncle, so I have nothing to be ashamed of, or I owe them anything, or I've taken something from them, or it's occurred to me. I was taught from my grandfather that in the first place the state, second place the family, and third place the political party. Now we can discuss this order of second and third values in society, but when someone gives up the political promises that he made to the citizens when he went to the polls, I consider it a fraud, which is what led to the SRS falling apart. Now we can talk about it both for days and years, etc., but I only have to ask one question, if it hadn't happened, it would have certainly ruled Serbia in 2012 and 2013, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Bojan Pajtic and everyone else. Now that we know what kind of country we found in 2012, that's the main question -- would Serbia exist today as we have, or would it be torn apart, divided, poor and robbed? If my sin is that I did not want Serbia to be torn apart and divided and robbed, let it be the sin that I bear, and those who have defended it, to whom such a condition was appropriate, do not be a sin, may it be just a responsibility with which they must be dealt at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69611	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Ana Čaapic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69612	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a set of seven draft laws, one of which comes from the Republic Bureau of Statistics and is in charge of the Ministry of Demography and Population Policy, while the other six draft laws are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. So today we're discussing a whole new bill, a bill where we have proposed amendments and additions, and it's about the Capital Market Act, three draft laws on the approval of the agreement and two draft laws on the confirmation of the contract. In 2019, we, MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, passed as many as 180 laws, with a huge number of laws right in the area of finance. Unlike those in the Alliance for Serbia, who boycott the work of the National Assembly and who do not come to work, they have thus damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens in Serbia by over 60 million dinars. We Members who work successfully finished in 2019 and entered work in 2020. What is most important and what marked in 2019 is that in time we adopted the development budget, at the end of November of 2019, but also in 2019 for the first time we had a positive budget rebalance, which is indeed for every praise. We adopted the Investment Funds Act and the Alternative Investment Funds Act on 10 October. Why am I bringing this up? Just by adopting these two laws were crucial for opening Chapter 4, and Chapter 4 refers precisely to the free movement of capital. Otherwise, if the government of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the National Bank of Serbia had not implemented heavy reforms and had not stabilised public finances, we would not be able to talk today about the free movement of capital. What we can boast about, and it's about the area of finance, is that we've opened a total of six chapters, out of eight. The remaining two chapters refer to the protection of competition, which is intensive, and to the improvement of tax policy, where we are expected for reforms in the coming period. This is indeed commendable, and this is a huge recognition for both the Republic of Serbia and all the citizens of Serbia. In 2019, we achieved truly exceptional results. We managed to achieve an economic growth of as much as 4%, regardless of what the World Bank predicted was 3.5% growth. So we've exceeded the expectations of the World Bank. Also, for the first time in history, or since 1995, since the rate of unemployment is measured, we have a unemployment rate below 10% and at this point is 9.5%. The fourth year in a row we achieved a surplus in the budget, and that gave us room to raise both salaries and pensions on average 9.6% and is now an average profit in Serbia of over 500 euros, which is even 170 euros more than before the SNS came to power. In 2020, we continue the same way as in 2019 with the implementation of the economic relief measures, so that the state gave up even 13.1 billion dinars and left these funds to businesses, so that they could either raise salaries or create new jobs. When it comes to foreign direct investment inflows, 2019 was indeed a record year. The inflow totalled 3.8 billion euros, which is 15% more than all Western Balkan countries combined, and by as much as 40% more than in 2018, in a year which was also a record inflow of foreign direct investment. Foreign investors come to Serbia because the situation in Serbia is economically predictable and stable. All macroeconomic indicators testify. The inflation rate has been moving around 2% year-on-year for a long time. The exchange rate is also stable. Today, no one in Serbia is talking about exchange rate differences anymore because the exchange rate differences are no longer available today. When it comes to gross foreign exchange reserves, at the end of December 2019, they amounted to 13.4 billion euros, which is 2.1 billion euros higher than in 2018. With this volume of foreign exchange reserves, we have 170% cash mass coverage, we have six months of import of goods and services, which is twice as much as the standard that determines the adequate level of coverage of the import of goods and services to foreign reserves. By the way, this has been the highest level of foreign reserve since 2000, since this data was monitored. We even managed to replace all expensive loans from the previous government with 8% interest rates with cheap loans with interest rates from 1.5% to 2.5% and thus achieved huge savings, where we have funds for further investment. What I've cited is just a few macroeconomic indicators from a large number of macroeconomic indicators that measure the state of the economy in one country. We often hear that foreign investors come to Serbia for cheap labour. Of course, that's not true. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northern Macedonia, Albania, Bulgaria, which is an EU member, have lower average earnings, so foreign investors do not go to those countries that I am talking about, but come to Serbia, on the one hand, because the economic situation in Serbia is stable and predictable, and on the other hand because we have quality labour. Besides, everyone sees what they want to see, someone sees a chicken, some cocaine, and both observers watch the same point. When it comes to infrastructure projects, it has never been built again in Serbia but in 2019, that is, in the last seven years. We've got a corridor 10 in the length of 813 kilometers. In November, the eastern arms of Corridor 10 to the border with Bulgaria ended, the southern arms of Corridor 10 towards Macedonia ended in May, so we have a complete Corridor 10. Also, in 2019, a section of the "Milosa Veliki" highway from Surcin to Cačko was completed and is now reaching Belgrade to Cačka in an hour, and before we traveled two and a half hours. We started on December 5th with the construction of the Moravia Corridor and completion of the works is expected in two and a half years. Also, in 2020, we are starting to build the Nis – Merdare highway and this highway will completely change the image of the Toplician region, and our citizens from Gracanica, who have more than 20,000, will be able to reach Kursumlje and Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, wherever they are headed. There are many other implemented projects, such as the Morava International Airport in Brodjevci, and then the "Turkish Stream" pipeline through Serbia for 403km. In 2012, there were 1,500 sites in total, and in 2019 close to 54,000, so it is for you respected citizens of Serbia 36 times more. Not to mention the national investment plan, where additional investment in infrastructure projects is envisaged and that is defined for young people over 700m euros, for agricultural infrastructure over 300m euros, for education and digitisation over 600, a sewage and water network over a billion euros, where each village in Serbia will be connected to a water and sewerage network. In the municipality of Kursumli, more than 25 years later, the construction of the Selova dam for the accumulation of the Toplica River has been defined over 40m euros, and this way it will be fully and permanently solved both the problem of floods and water supply, but also the irrigation of the entire Toplic region, but also the rich and low regions. All this SNS has achieved through work, work and only work and, of course, thanks to the trust and huge support of Serbian citizens. When you see all of this, what has been done during the SNS government and when you hear some programme of Dragan Gilas for 2020 and salaries for doctors of thousands of euros, a man offers a program and does not want to go to elections, that makes an ordinary citizen laugh. First, a man, i.e. Dragan Gilas and as mayor of Belgrade, destroyed the city of Belgrade, as director of the Office of the President of the State, as the minister destroyed our country, and now offers us some kind of programme and salaries for doctors of thousands of euros. If he understood in finance, first, he would know that during his time the doctors received a lower salary than the nurses are now receiving. The man has abolished specializations, and now he offers us higher salaries for doctors and a better standard of living. If it were understood in finance, I say, it would not have spent 620m euros so quickly, and now it would have gotten its hands on a full state register. That can happen, but if he wins the election, and of course it will never be. The first item of today's agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act. For each country, the most important thing is that it develops economically and progresses, because only in such a way can one country resist all pressures from the external environment. All developed countries are working on free movement of people, capital, services and goods and integration into international flows. The economy can never be bad. They can only be bad people who lead the economy, and we unfortunately had this situation until 2012 when some bad, wrong people made bad and wrong economic decisions and when the state led to our collapse. Fortunately for us, and fortunately for all Serbian citizens, that time is past and will never be a future again. The amendments and additions of the existing Capital Market Act are indeed minimal and relate on the one hand to the harmonisation of the existing Law with the Law on Public Debt and the introduction of a foreign legal person who will be able to carry out clearing and balance of securities of value will provide additional possibility for foreign investors to invest in our domestic securities of value in a quick and efficient manner. Finally, the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws will result in a reduction in the cost of borrowing of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the issue of government bonds. So far, we have had situations where only the Central Register performs the tasks of balance and clearing of securities of value, i.e. dealings with each other, as well as the transfer of sold paper from value to the new owner and the transfer of money from the customer's account to the seller of securities of value. Amendments and additions to the existing law provide the possibility that, in addition to the Central Register, the granting and clearing operations will now be able to carry out a foreign legal entity. In this way there will be an increase in the attractiveness and availability of our domestic securities of value, and ultimately we will have a development of the capital market. When it comes to the draft legislation on censuses, households and apartments in 2021, as we could hear during today's debate, the census is scheduled for April of next year. The Republic of Serbia as one of 193 UN members took the obligation from Resolution 10 of 2015 to implement the census between 2015 and 2024. Otherwise, our country has an extremely long tradition when it comes to the census and it dates back to 1834. In the beginning, i.e. until World War I, the census was made every five years, so that since 1961, according to UN recommendations, a practice to work the census is established for 10 years. So it was, of course, until 2000, when the yellows came to power and, of course, in the lack of financial resources in 2001, they did not implement the census, but they were late for a year and the census was implemented in 2002 and they did not have enough to do so, and in 2011 they were also late to carry out the census, even this time for six months. Instead of implementing the list in April 2011, the census was conducted only in October 2011, although this time only with six months late, but the point is that the reason is the same. And this time, the problem was the lack of financial resources. If the EU had not given them money, they would never have implemented the 2011 census. Today the situation is much better. Today the situation is different. Not only do we adopt the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in time, but the law specifies the competences of all participants in the list from the relevant ministries to the citizens who will be interviewed. Otherwise, this is the last list to be conducted in a traditional way. The paper of the law is a way of collecting data. Data will be directly entered into laptops which will facilitate the entry of all collected data into the Central Database and in this way the first preliminary results of the census will be only within a month of the completion of the list, which is really good because the competent state authorities will have adequate data to implement the measures and population policies, but of course also for implementing the development measures. When it comes to the draft law confirming the loan agreement, a project for competitive agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is a loan of 45m and 800,000 euros under favourable conditions. Of these funds, more than 30m euros will be invested for the purchase of equipment and crafts and for small and medium-sized agricultural producers who have so far had no access to IPARD because of non-compliance with certain conditions. The biggest problem so far has actually been that agricultural producers have been uninformed, then the great delicacy of agricultural parcels, the non-catastrianity and a certain amount of funds and loans will be determined precisely to provide advisory services to agricultural producers, which will, of course, improve the position of our agricultural production. In the case of a loan agreement for the financing of a project to improve Serbia's land administration, the 2019 Budget Law provides for the borrowing of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and for the financing of the project to improve the Catastre immovableity. So we continue with the digitization measures. By the way, since 2017, we have been able to save as much as 517 tonnes of paper and save close to 10,500 trees. When it comes to confirming the credit agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Turkish business banks and Ziraat and Denizbank, it is an extremely favourable loan for construction and implementation of course, infrastructure projects and this contract is another confirmation that we have excellent co-operation with the Republic of Turkey. In addition to investment in road transport, huge funds have been invested so far in rail traffic, we continue to invest in rail traffic and is now a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development related to the purchase of new 18 electric furniture, i.e. vehicles. The last item of the agenda, in my opinion, is the most important because after more than 80 years, Serbian citizens will receive a brand-new building of the University Children's Clinic "Tirshova 2". Had the previous government thought of citizens in Serbia long ago they would have had a new university children's clinic building, however, they didn't care, but they should have understood. First, because of the theft, Serbia's credit rating was negative, even if they wanted to raise some kind of credit they couldn't raise credit under such favourable conditions as our government can. Our policy, or SNS policy, is work, construction, new factories, new jobs. That's what all the results that I and my colleagues have been talking about these days testify to. SNS policy is not and will never be a threat to long pipes, nor to insult women and children in Serbia, SNS policy will never be an invention of affairs, we leave it to these Gilasovites, and we will continue to work and build and fight for a better standard of living for all Serbian citizens. Therefore, the SNS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69613	I'd like to thank my colleague, Charapic. We move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a joint general and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 14 to 20 of the agenda. First of all, the People's MP Jahja Fehratovic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69614	Thank you. Yesterday we talked about the importance of roads and the construction of roads and, of course, the provision of means to build all those routes that are necessary for normal life and the development of all environments in the state of Serbia. Among other things, by focusing on Novi Pazar, Tutin, we have received a reply from the minister that the delay on the road or on the work for the road is actually happening because a local self-government, or Tutin self-government, has not yet developed a detailed regulatory plan and its belief is that it will happen by the end of January. However, the end of January is right in front of us and there is still no session of the Tutina municipality and I think that date or that deadline will be exceeded. What I want to say is more about this Census Act. It is extremely important, important and over-needed, especially for us members of the minority national communities, because, as we hear from the previous debater, the lists that were made in 2000, 2001, 2010, 2011 were not adequate, were not correct and concrete, when it came to the Bosniak National Community, we were not even valid because of the very bad relationship of the former regime towards the Bosniak people who had brutally violated all constitutional and other powers, and even the military, police force was opposed to the individual, collective and religious rights of the Bosniak national community, in part boycotted that signature in 2011 and therefore the results of that list were invalid for us. It is therefore important to prepare now, in time, with all possible legal and other preconditions, everything in order to make the list of 2021 extremely well done and reflect the real picture of the entire population in the state of Serbia. I am interested in three members of this bill, article 6, which says it will also list citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are staying abroad in view of this migrant crisis, to a large number of emigrants from all over the country. I would like to explain to us the methodology of how and how effectively all those who are still citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not currently in its territory, as not only individuals go, but entire families go, and it is planned, it seems to me, as it stands, that one of the family members will give information about their status. What happens when the whole family moved out? What happens when there is no one to give information about these citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are located in another country. Also, it is very interesting and important items are, in my opinion, a matter of listing religious belongings and national belongings. One member says it's good, it's important, it's the main indicator. The second article says that those who are listed are not obliged to give the data to the censusor. Since these are the most relevant data and we have had cases that because of the sensitivity in certain environments where minority peoples are concentrated, and that this also affects the implementation of their collective and individual rights, how those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not show their religious and national membership in that census will be treated. What will that mean in terms of their national community or people to whom they belong? Will things be automatically copied to another community or to another section – others? How is that really defined? This is extremely important for us, members of minority nations, to have a full picture of our presence in the state of Serbia and to simply have a real picture of the total share in the population of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69615	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69616	Thank you, Vice President. I'd like to first address two questions about this package of bill or agreement. The first question – can you answer the debt per capita in 2012, and what is 2020, or at least for the first three quarters of 2020, if there is no data for 2019? The second question – is it true that the information, which is present in the public, is that in the name of incentives per employee for Austria's Rauch, I do not know whether more than 70,000 euros per employee has been given in Koceljeva or Belgrade? I highly doubt it, given that it is an extremely high sum, but I think the public should say that such information is not being commented in an inappropriate manner. The second group of issues refers to the bill's proposal for a census. My first question about this, which was partially touched by the previous debater, and I also asked him in terms of the parliamentary question, but I didn't get the answer, is, given that we have probably about three million citizens of Serbia in the distance, of which it's probably two million or more with the right to vote and are in the voting lists, that in the 21st century, in the age of the Internet, in times of powerful Internet offices and for electronic business, we will explain to Serbian citizens that they can't vote electronically, but that they have to travel thousands of miles to the United States, in Canada, Australia, the Russian Federation, China, etc? They pay taxes for the property they own here. Second, they pay donations to their family members or families, etc., these are far higher amounts than tax burdens. The next question is – how do we explain the practical devastation of the Serb village or in the period from 2002 to 2018, I am talking about the period between the census and the survey that was made in 2018, as a trial list for 2021, 220.000 family agricultural holdings have been shut down in Serbia? If we take it as just 100 landlords per village, that means we've lost 2,200 of those settlements. A devastating fact in such a short period of time. In doing so, I want to ask another question that I've asked several times before. Serbia is a state that has a de facto village, but has no formal law, because in all regulations after 1981 we do not have a village as a category of settlements, but we only have urban settlements and other settlements. Why are we ashamed to say we have a village? Is it because they are completely abandoned and neglected or there are other reasons. It would be good, too, to find out how many of these other settlements, or other settlements, remain only as a topon on a geographical map, since we already have no so-called so-called village. a living house under the pretext. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69617	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. My friend Matić, you wanted a replica? Excuse me. Excuse my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69618	Thank you. I have to react, just to point out that Koceljeva, the incorrect information has been mentioned, that Rauch has been given to the worker 70 and some thousands, which is absolutely not true, and I think that when it is released to the public, especially from the speaker of the Assembly, I don't think that it is in favour of any of us, not just MPs, but any citizen of this country. If they leave here without checking the information, then I don't know what other people are going to say. The truth is quite another, that the company Rauch, based in Koceljeva, was given 3,000 euros and I ask that they deal with the figure. Those people who want to mix women and frogs, that what was given for investment, to turn into workers, etc., there is simply a contract, there is something that can be checked, in the end it is related to the Ministry of Business, or the Development Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Another brief detail. Given the mention of Rauch, Rauch is a company that seems to me to be an example of a good private company operating under all the rules of this country. For these reasons, it is good to have such companies, not to drive them out of Serbia in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69619	Thank you, fellow Matić. Comrade Ševarlic, would you like a replica of the presentation of fellow Matic, i.e. on the replica of fellow Matic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad we got the denials of this untrustworthy information, but I think this is a place where untrustworthy information should be eliminated. I know the Rauch company very well, and that is why I was amazed by this information that is present in the means of information. In any case, thank you very much and it is good that we have officially cleared up these issues in this place. But there remains a second open question, why on the Serbian or Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Business or other resolutely competent ministries, there is not a single contract that would be transparent about the incentives given to foreign investors. In this way, we would not be in a position to read such false information in information. I also expected that one of the representatives of the government would provide answers to some of these questions related to the debt per capita and some of these issues related to the inability to vote electronically in favour of our citizens, and to the problem of why the category of village cannot be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69621	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69622	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an old saying, it is better to suffer for the village than in the country. You wear a folk costume, you take from Dusan Petrovic 60,000 euros from the start of the project, from the World Bank, or so, here's the minister to confirm it. I got that information from the Ministry. Now, you don't want to back up, you know, always have some grudges. Let's commend the World Bank loan. My colleague Jevtić will make it a little more detailed, because that's what we agreed. It's the new five billion farms. Right? So plus the part that's going to give the banks. So when banks give a certain amount, it'll be another eight billion in agriculture, which wasn't covered by the draft budget. That should have been commended, and I'll commend it. But since one MP resented Tirshov here, he has doubted, as far as I understand, the means for treating children for a hospital in Tirshova, I think that my colleague Orlic and I have heard it well. So that's the one that changed nationality, that's the one Scott pushed into parliament. He's not the only one. So, gone, Scott, left us an idiot a few times. Now, he's against building a hospital for the kids, so I understand. He doubted the means. He has a Love Moljac saying, he says, it seems to me that his, late Ljuba Moljac, the great thinker, was funny and ironic, but he thought, "The lunatics are in a madhouse, sick people in a hospital, and the fools won't" and that's why some people find themselves suspicious in Tirshaw. So, I think he was worthy of that quote, given that the last thing I could suspect was that one of the MPs would find a grudge and that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a talk here about duty. It is true that the debt level at the end of 2012 was 17.7 billion, Mr. Orlic and Martinovic, and now it is 24. Almost seven billion, 23 billion comas something, I'm not sure. But look at it this way, over the last seven years, we've paid six billion interest on their loans. We had Agrobank and Development Bank and some other bank there, a resolution of almost a billion. So, what we allegedly owed more was the product of their debt, high interest 6-7% that was to be paid. Let's just say, 1.2 billion one year we paid interest on their overpriced loans. It's not just the credit, the problem is they haven't made a source for the repayment of debts. They didn't make highways, they didn't raise the processing industry. It's all the merits of the current government. So, by raising the processing industry, by raising GDP, by raising credit ratings, by refinanced some of their loans, we came into a more envious position. Today we have, say, a problem with Montenegro. I'm also bringing him into economic issues and social issues. I think Montenegro's a little vain. I think Milo Djukanovic wants our people in Montenegro to charge in exchange for social disasters and economic woes in which the country is located. Let's say we compare Montenegro that was in a 10 times better position than we were during the Democratic Party, and today the public debt of Montenegro is 80%, while ours is about 50%. Isn't that right, Mr. Orlic? Their deficit per year, the trade deficit is 1.3 billion, which is 25% of GDP on their GDP. We have about 8-10% there. Their debt grows 600 million a year, which is 13% of their GDP. It's like if our debt grew seven billion a year and we owed 14 billion in two years, they wouldn't do anything. They've done it all, and they haven't finished, 40km of highway. Does anyone know that tourism revenues in Serbia are higher by 500m euros than in Montenegro? Milo Djukanovic wants to move his economic woes to our dissatisfaction, to try to service and reprogram certain debts, to cause dissatisfaction and to accuse Serbia and Russia of destroying him. No, we don't tear down Milo Djukanovic, we respect Montenegro's integrity, regardless of what he didn't respect ours, but has recognised the fake state of Kosovo in our territory, has distinguished with it, sent a delegation to Pristina, etc. We, however, did not destroy the integrity of Montenegro and wanted peace. We want them to come out of economic hardships, but we cannot stand for him to replace the economic and social woes he has and the leadership of Montenegro amnests himself by creating some pressure and saying – Serbs are guilty of everything. Of course not. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by supporting all these laws, I would like to say next - that agriculture is on the right track. If they had left us a more developed farm, we would have sang a much nicer song today. Instead of investing money in their agriculture, they invested in their pockets. Instead of highways in their own country that they were building, they were building highways toward their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69623	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69624	We're going back to work. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69625	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People. We have a set of extremely important financial laws ahead of us. With full respect and support for all proposed laws which are the topic of the parliamentary debate of today's assembly session, I would like to take particular note of the draft law confirming the loan agreement, a project for competitive agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I believe that the proposal for this law is extremely important because its adoption actually means new financial resources for the development and improvement of our country's agriculture. As we have heard from the reasoning of the legislators of this law, the funds amounting to around 46m euros planned to be invested in several different programmes in the area of agriculture, including a particularly important programme for improving the production and business capacities of small and medium-sized agricultural producers. Why do I think the bill is particularly important? Because every investment and every dinar invested in our agrarian is valuable, not only for this sector, but for the overall economic development of our country and its economy. That's what they say, among other things, about the participation of our agricultural and food products in the overall foreign trade of the Republic of Serbia. According to them, the average annual share of these products over the last five years was 20% in exports and around 7.8% in total imports. I will also remind you that agriculture is the only branch of the economy in our country that has provided a surplus in the foreign trade for many years, and the average annual surplus for the past five years was one billion and 200m euros. The above data are no doubt good indicators of eligibility for investment, i.e. that every dinar and every euro invested in our agriculture is repeatedly returned through the production of agricultural and food products, whether they are intended for export, or those needed to ensure the food safety of our citizens. Yet it is also clear that the resources in our agriculture are not used as they could and should be in years ahead of us. That is why we need new investments and new investments. To this end, with the resources of the agrarian budget already available, the funds provided through favourable loans are also important as is the loan we are talking about today. It is good that the proposal for an agreement on the loan of small and medium-sized agricultural producers is focused, and they today make up a vast majority of registered agricultural holdings in our country. According to the 2019 Bureau of Statistics, around 540,000 agricultural holdings were registered in Serbia, of which 94.% owned less than 10 ha. Although they have small and depreciated possessions of this land, it is they who generate more than 80% of our agricultural products today. With a long tradition and experience, valuable hosts, fertile land, good climate, developed scientific and professional base for implementing the most modern technical and technological achievements in agriculture, our small agricultural producers are being monitored and a number of problems that, above all, reflect their insufficient competitiveness on the market. On the other hand, good agricultural practice has confirmed that an efficient way of improving the competitiveness of agricultural production is to support investment, in facilities and equipment, in new plantings of multi-annual cultures, in stock, in adaptation measures to changing climate conditions, such as irrigation systems, in modern machinery and the like. Therefore, it is clear that new investments and greater investment in strong support of the state, in that sense, are crucial for improving all segments of our production of agricultural and food products. In this it is also an important step towards achieving a defined goal in just two words – competitive agriculture. In addition to investment, the regulation of the agricultural and food markets would also be important for the future of our agriculture, as I will remind you in 2008, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been signed, among other things, which has set a short deadline for preparing our agrarian for almost complete liberalisation of trade in these products. So in 2014, when this agreement came into force, our farmers were not ready enough for an open competition with EU producers whose production is, among other things, highly subsidized. I must also say that I believe that the Serbian agrarian is not prepared enough to compete with European producers and that, in that sense, precious years have been lost since 2000, more precisely between 2000 and 2012. This is why today we have a large supply of imported agricultural and food products, such as The milk from Croatia, meat from Austria, apples from Italy, raspberries from Poland and that is why, with the subsidy and credit support, the organisation of the market and the placement of our agricultural products is of paramount importance. We must also advocate respect for good trade practice, because although trade chains adhere to the rules for 70% of the product to be of domestic origin, yet our small and medium-sized agricultural producers find it difficult to enter these systems and not easily position themselves in these systems. In addition, the particular problem for our small agricultural producers is that often because of the lack of crafts for the purchase of re-romatics, they use credits or contracts with so-called ‘recompetition’ to restore production. Production organizers and rarely get the main part of the profit, not them, but the merchants. These are the problems we have to solve, because our agricultural producers must be adequately rewarded for their work and effort. In the end, I want all of us here, as serious and responsible people who love our country and we want to give it an economic, economic and every other success and development to remind me of a famous sentence – let's buy her homework. In our valuable hosts, natural resources are guaranteed the inviolability of smell, taste and color of our agricultural products, and our top scientific and professional staff at agricultural universities, institutes and laboratories are there to guarantee their quality and health security for their part. So let's buy domestic agricultural and food products, because that's the best way to protect our community's own interests and interests. Because of this, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal, as well as all other proposed laws on the agenda of today's assembly session, convinced that this is in the best interest of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69626	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69627	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister, in today's debate, I will refer to the Census Act, which will be implemented in the following year, i.e. 2021. The census is a very important act for every country, and of course for ours, because it represents a very significant data for what a certain state needs to take in the next period. Our country organizes a list of population, households and apartments every 10 years, as well as everyone else, to monitor the demographic and other movements of the population. The census sets out the total number of inhabitants, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia, as well as other vital data, such as educational, migration, economic, ethical and other characteristics of the population and which are necessary to obtain the most accurate picture of the current state of the population, but the list also serves to design future plans of a country. The list includes obtaining accurate information on all aspects of the list. So there will be a large number of information about all residents, some of whom will be asked for the first time. As the law says, the next list will be done in a faster and more modern way, with the help of the computer, and the censusors will certainly be the ones who are able to perform the new technology list. This technology of the census will later allow faster data processing, ensuring adequate protection of the data submitted by each citizen from possible abuses. The census will last for 30 days instead of 15 days as early as it was due to a new way of data input, but 15,000 censusors, or people, will be hired instead of 36,000 as it was hired in the previous list. What is significant for every country, including Serbia, is that censuses point to population trends and need attention. For us, this is an important factor in the aspect of the population policy that needs to be led further because we are also according to previous indicators in the trend of the depopulation process. Serbia is a small country, and therefore every outflow of the population is a reduction in overall development potential, and attention should be paid to that, because the population is the most important resource of the state, so that the state can make progress, in order for the ultimate line to exist, except for the territory, is important and the population is first. In this sense, it is significant that as a society, we provide two strategic goals. The first is to create conditions for reducing Serbia's depopulation by increasing the birth rate, therefore, to ensure a positive demographic trend. The second is to reduce the economic and other migration of the population abroad because it is mainly young people who are leaving. Once they leave, they can hardly return, and then they create a family and form a offspring. One and the other can be achieved, on the one hand, by the economic development of the country, and on the other hand by establishing development priorities and by leading an innovative active population policy, which can contribute to the increase of the birth rate. It should also be noted and pointed to an alarming fact that we belong to the oldest European nation with an average age of over 43 years. This seems to me to be the most serious challenge for our country and certainly has to be a priority in the work of this, but every other next government. I purposely point to this sociological aspect of the census, because the existence of the population is the base of everything that makes the state, which is a necessary condition. I believe that this list, which will be implemented in an innovative way in terms of technique, but also in terms of the content of the census data, will be further strategic towards the population policy that this government and the minister in charge of population policy, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, have been leading in recent years. In addition to this aspect of the list, we will see how much housing we are provided, what are the living conditions in which we live, the exact number of employees, as well as the educational structure of the population, from the list we will see the density of the population, the ethnic composition, how many cities are overloaded, and how many villages are missing. Finally, we're going to get parallel data on the ratio of all these indicators to those indicators in the previous lists. From all the facts of the population, future development strategies and plans should be established for the future of our country and society. That's why I consider the census to be a strategic activity, not a simple administrative procedure. Every serious state must build its survival strategy, taking into account this data and the government must think ahead, not just for today and tomorrow, but for the day and the day ahead in 10, 20 and 30 years. In that sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I myself, support this law, with the belief that the government of the Republic of Serbia, based on the results of the census, will plan our country's development routes for the next 10, 20 and 30 years and our parliamentary group will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69628	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69629	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, I will talk today about the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on a project loan for the construction of a new University Children's Clinic of Tirshova 2 in Belgrade. At the very beginning, I would like to remind you that the existing clinic, the children's Tirshaw clinic, was built in the period of World War II, was once renovated in the 1960s and once again in the 1990s. It's been 30 years ever since. What is seen as a problem in the functioning of the present hospital is lack of spatial capacity, outdated heating, ventilation, air conditioning and inadequate, or poor fire protection. These are some technical things that certainly justify the construction of a new clinic, but what will bring about the construction of a new clinic is improving the quality of health care for our youngest, for our youngsters, for the paediatric population. The project is worth 75m euros, with financial resources provided by the Council of Europe Bank for the development of a 54m-euro Council of Europe, which is 72% of the total amount invested to build a new children's clinic. Other funds will be allocated either from budget funds or from donor funds. The deadline for the completion of this project is 2023. What I must stress is that these investments in child health will bring a positive effect on all children who will be treated from Serbia, but also from the region, as well as on medical staff, i.e. healthcare professionals. I would like to remind you that according to the data recorded at the Tirshova children's clinic 170,000 ambulatory consultations and 75,000 days of hospitalisation in hospital units were recorded between 2015 and 2018. When we look at this data, we see how important it is to build a new children's clinic. This project will certainly provide us, i.e. patients, greater spatial capacity, comfort better, respect for the dignity of small patients, better therapeutic conditions for patients, better hygiene, and all this better health care. In the media, we could almost hear Mr. Dragan Gilas' promises that it would take him only six months to provide doctors with 1,000-euro incomes. You see, he didn't have enough years of power to provide doctors with that kind of income, because where a man would think about doctors at that time when he had to think about his own pocket. We are obliged to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of that golden age of Dragan Gilas, when doctors, my colleagues, worked for 50,000 dinars, when nurses and medical technicians worked for only 30,000 dinars, and the specialist had a salary of 62,000 dinars. Today the conditions are very different and the results are very different. Today, a nurse and a technician have a salary of 50,000 dinars, as much as the doctor had at the time. Doctors have 78,000 dinars without night work, so, no duty, no past work, and a specialist of about 100,000 dinars. In 2012, then Mayor Dragan Gilas attended the Old Court presentation of the project reconstruction of four clinical centres in Serbia. He promised in 2012 that the reconstruction of all four clinical centres would be completed in 2015. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia began at the end of 2018 and is a project worth 110m euros, and the completion of the works is planned for half of 2021. Only, unlike these previous promises, this reconstruction was created thanks to the president of the Republic of Serbia and the responsible SNS policy. For decades, there's been talk about the construction of Det. 2. Today the work is in progress and this will be a magnificent health center and at the service not only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also for all patients in the region and there is no government and no ministry that has not talked about the construction of Dedin 2. Again, I must remind you that this is the only government that has succeeded in this. Nis Clinical Center is over and it will be of great importance for patients from the south and southeast of Serbia. I must also point out that during the time of Dragan Gilas, the state of the country was such that patients in hospitals had to bring Band-Aids, bandages, threads, means basic medical supplies. Instead of the competition, doctors were admitted to work on tariffs. Serbian citizens died waiting for air therapy lists, and children had to be treated abroad. Tirshaw 2 is, in addition to being a magnificent centre and a significant project, it will certainly provide new access to small patients in a modern hospital as well as their peers in large modern centres in the world, and doctors will, with the help of telemedicine, which is very interesting and significant, and will enable the construction of a new children's clinic, to consult with their colleagues by electronic means, so that the doctor from Japan or from America will be able to participate in the consultation with the doctor who performs the operation himself. This is the future of medicine, which will soon be available to our little patients. Just a few more sentences. It's simple, I can't help but mention that in the 2020 budget, it puts itself very high priority on the health of our population. Here is something that is most important recognised by the provision of this health care and small patients and older groups and vulnerable groups, and 74% of the funds were invested more than last year in the 2020 budget. Much more invested means of preventive medicine, which as a doctor I have to take advantage of and commend, because it is very important to invest in preventive medicine. This will reduce the number of non-infectious diseases, the frequency of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and malignancies. Also, I would like to commend the investment of significant funds in ISIS, an information system that has now become an inseparable part of our medicine, and investment in preventive medicine is nearly 14 billion planned in 2020 will certainly provide us with better healthcare, better hygiene, cleaner hospitals, increased prevention and purchase of appliances. When I mentioned buying the apparatus, I would like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that over the past period, a "Gama" knife and 10 linear accelerators have been purchased. Also, in the 2020 budget, a budget fund for the treatment of diseases that cannot be treated in Serbia has been increased and more than 32m euros have been invested in three years. It is very important to invest in the health system and not only because of healthcare professionals and medical staff, but because of the entire citizenship of our Republic. I hope this trend of investment in the health system continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69630	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69631	I would like to thank the chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are also discussing the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan for the construction of the new University Children's Clinic of Tirshova 2. The children's disease clinic has almost a hundred years of tradition. Since 1924, the clinic has provided health services to the youngest patients, at the highest level. The current building of the University Children's Clinic was built between 1936 and 1940. Some 150,000 specialist examinations are carried out in this institution, 7,000 operations, and about 300 children, aged zero to 18, were hospitalized in 20 departments. In three intensive care units, at any moment, 10 of the most difficult patients were placed. Today, the University Children's Clinic, with an existing organisational structure, cannot adequately respond to the needs of an increased number of service users. Also, one of the major problems is the lack of spatial capacity to accommodate the sick children and their companions. The health ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the importance of solving these problems and the need to build a new modern children's clinic building. As a result, a request was sent to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the approval of loans for the partial financing of the construction of a new university children's clinic. Building this facility for the needs of children's medicine in Serbia, but also in the region, will provide a highly specialized facility for treating the youngest patients. What matters is that he's so-called. Tirshaw 2 designed and designed according to state-of-the-art standards and that it represents a completely new approach to treating children. A useful area will increase significantly. Namely, the new clinic should have an area of about 33,000 square meters, 54 beds in single and double rooms and its own garage with about 600 parking spaces. It is also important to shorten the waiting period for adequate healthcare. The goal is that children stay in the hospital as soon as possible, children will receive treatment in daily hospitals, similar to children's playrooms, and that the treatment of severely ill children, especially children with malignancies, will be adjusted to be their parents with them, so that treatment is less traumatic. The concept of flexibility, i.e. the fluidity of hospital departments, is particularly interesting. Namely, the entire hospital will adapt to current needs, parts of the building and departments will quickly and easily change the purpose, and according to the internal dynamics of the hospital. The goal is for Serbian children to receive top-notch treatment, in line with world standards, and for medical staff to receive optimal working conditions. I must point out that in recent years we have witnessed the renovation of major clinical centres, such as Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad. Upgrading and renovating Serbia's Clinical Centre, which will receive a new emergency centre and 20 new operating halls, is under way. Investments in smaller areas are visible. In Lazarevec a new extra-bolic maternity home is thus opened, which is certainly commendable. I would therefore take this opportunity to praise the government's work and efforts by the government and the health ministry to address the health problem in Serbia, because only a healthy man can contribute to the progress of society in general. The SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day, as well as other proposed documents in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69632	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69633	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, among other things, there is a bill before us to confirm the loan framework agreement relating to the construction of the Tirshova Children's University Clinic 2 and this is a really big day for Serbia, because we are talking about the information that concerns that the existing centre conducts around 150,000 reviews of our youngest patients in Serbia annually. So it is more than clear how much the burden is in this clinical center and how important it is to build a new facility that will relieve this large number of patients, but also create better conditions for the treatment of our children, but also for the work of our healthcare professionals. The plan is to build an object that will extend to 30,000 square meters, and this facility is designed to be built according to the most modern standards and to have the most modern concept of treatment that provides for children to be kept in hospital conditions as soon as possible. So, in the shortest time, they will receive treatment that corresponds to their disease, if that is appropriate to their disease, and for the harder patients, of course, they will be provided with the most modern conditions and intensive treatment. The deadline for building this facility is four years, and the funds to be withdrawn are 54m euros. The aim of the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to provide the best conditions for the treatment of all our patients, to shorten waiting lists, to reconstruct and restore existing health facilities, but also to build new and modernise them. So after 50 years, Serbia gets a new Tirshova 2 clinic but after so long, Serbia has a clear plan and programme when it comes to the health system of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has a consensus on the health of our citizens. Serbia has ready-made projects, but Serbia has provided funds for this purpose. I'll remind you that the Nis Clinical Center is built and provides adequate treatment conditions for all patients gravitating in that area. I will remind that the construction of the Serbian Clinical Centre, which is in Belgrade, is ending, which is extremely important for all of our patients, but is planned to build the Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad. The turn came, of course, to build a clinic for infectious and tropical diseases long spoken of. These are, therefore, concrete results when we talk about the construction of clinical centres across Serbia, but it is also an intensive issue of reconstruction, reconstruction of existing hospitals, health homes, investments in equipment, and indeed no city, municipality or neighborhood has been neglected and neglected. All these projects are crucial, capital and worth tens of millions of euros. The fact is that the need for the construction and adaptation of these objects existed during the previous authorities. However, they didn't find it appropriate, they probably had some more pressing things, they were blocking projects, but they didn't have the money to think about these projects, so these objects just collapsed over the years. The fact is that today is more intense than ever invested in these health centres, because the aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to shorten waiting lists, to improve conditions in our health centres, to work to strengthen prevention in order to detect diseases in time, but also to improve and modernise our equipment in all health centres. Our healthcare system until 2012 did not meet the requirements or criteria for its participation in the evaluation, and when it comes to the European Health Consumer Index, we are proud to say today that Serbia is the 18th place of the 35th state. This result has been contributed, of course, by the digitisation of the health system, but also by the humane plan, i.e. the employment of our best medical students who have been given the opportunity to perfect themselves and to go to specializations to ensure the best professional staff. Through salary increases, I remind you that during 2019 we made a decision to increase the salaries of eight to 15% for healthcare professionals in the highest percentage, we want to motivate both nurses and doctors to stay in Serbia, to live and work here. I remind you that Serbia was in trouble, because the previous regime had no plan and no programme, they didn't think ahead of what specializations would be sought, so we were in a situation where we were in trouble and the doctors of certain specializations were missing. However, we have stopped this trend by approving specialization and today we are proud to say that the first specialists are arriving, because it is a process that is ongoing, and that we will be able to provide new employment throughout Serbia and that we will provide all the professions that are missing. When it comes to the success of the previous regime, the only thing they managed to do was send their own health minister not to treat abroad, and not because he was suffering from a rare disease or condition that could not be treated in the Republic of Serbia, but because he had no confidence in his own health system, so he went abroad for routine surgery. When we talk about treatment abroad, the Republic of Serbia has brought a system solution, so one fund for the treatment of disease conditions that cannot be treated successfully in the Republic of Serbia, and we can proudly say that this fund is increasing year by year, so in 2012, only eight patients were sent for treatment and allocated 130 million for this purpose, 2013 also 130 million, 2014 was allocated 260 million, 2015 335 million, 2016 600 million, 2017 billion and 100 million, 2018 and 2019 two billion dinars for this purpose. Therefore, the great chance for the most severe patients was provided by two government planes and consultation with the most professional doctors, so that patients suffering from rare diseases could be provided with the best conditions for treatment. It is a pity that part of the opposition that has decided to boycott the assembly's sessions today did not find it appropriate to come and discuss its contribution and participate in this very important day for Serbia when we make a decision to withdraw funds for the construction of the Tirshova 2 clinic. It is indeed obvious that even for this important reason, they could not overcome their conflicts and vanity, but rather travellers come to the Assembly, hold conferences in the hall, and receive wages and travel expenses for their tourism from that same congregation that they boycott. I will also note at the end of my presentation the importance of the national investment plan and that, through this plan presented by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, it is planned to invest an additional 600m euros in healthcare over the next five years and that 16 new hospitals, six clinics and two new clinical centres are planned for the next five years. So, all of this wouldn't be possible if we hadn't gone through the reforms and the difficult decisions we made in the previous years, with of course trust and support from citizens, and now Serbia is a country that has plans, programmes, but also has the means to make all of this planned and implemented and that's what we're going to do in the next five years and, of course, given all that I've stated in the voting day, I will be happy to support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69634	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. I'm sorry. The word has been made by the People's MP Mariana Marash. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Just ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69635	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, JS MP Dragan Markovic Palma, as well as so far, will certainly support all proposals of the law, both from the first principle debate and from the second principle debate tabled by the Resort Ministry of Finance. Dear Ministers, Mr. Mali, with the co-workers of the Ministry of Finance, you have the support of the JS Group's MPs and we talked about it when we passed previous laws and this Budget Act, how much the Finance Ministry has done in the past three years to make the budget sound, to be developmental and to cover all sectors of society, and especially what is significant is that you have now paid attention to farmers and investment in terms of reconstruction and construction of particularly hospitals, but also socially endangered categories of population. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will point out the laws or proposals of the laws that are in the second principle debate. First of all, we have the first draft capital market law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in December 2019. This is important because it speaks primarily of the results achieved and the good financial and fiscal policy run by the Republic of Serbia and run by the finance ministry. Speaking of Serbian bonds, they received another confirmation of the value and quality of the world market because they were listed as potential inclusion in Morgan's country government bond index in the region. This is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. This is of great importance for investment and investors both foreign and domestic investors, i.e. for potential investment, and what is important is that serious investors are currently monitoring this index and monitoring investments, so that for us from JS is very important, very important new investments are very important foreign investors and capital in the Republic of Serbia, which will further strengthen the economy of the Republic of Serbia which is now, we say, in one good and household status because there are many internal and foreign investors who invest their capital, and now we have investment in securities of value, which is of great importance, respected ministers. Then we have another bill that speaks of the census of the population, households and apartments in 2021, which will be run by the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Also, this law is important because it will first and foremost create a realistic picture of the census to make this one demographic balance and the relationship between the number of people born and the number of dead, also to make a proper list, especially lately, to say that we are already stopping this relationship of intellectual economic migration, because the Republic of Serbia is becoming an economically stronger country and we are providing them with the possibility of employment, survival and survival of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Serbia, and especially young people, providing them with new jobs. So this list will be able to produce one statistic and strategy for a longer term over the next 10 years. For me as JS MPs, since agriculture is very important because I come from the agricultural area I will make a very important commitment to the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement when we talk about the competitive economy of the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This Bill proposal and the adoption of laws are of great importance to cover the agriculture sector, especially farmers in rural areas, and strong support from medium and small agricultural and food producers. This is important when we talk about competitiveness, but also because small and medium-sized agricultural producers so far have not been able to meet the preconditions when it comes to IPARD programmes related to agriculture, and in this way the state will stand behind them and will be able to compete and invest more in the sector of agriculture, investment and the creation of conditions for better agricultural development in rural areas. The Honorable Chairman, may I proceed? Please give me some time back. Also, a very important law that...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69636	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69637	Thank you. An extremely important law, which will support the JS parliamentary group, refers to the framework bill when it comes to the construction of the Tirshaw Two University Clinic in Belgrade, a children's clinic. It should be noted that the old clinic that is now receiving and treating children has insufficient capacity and was built before World War II, that in two times it has been renewed, but that this partial loan that will enable the construction of a new clinic that will create greater and spatial capacities and conditions for the treatment of our children because children cannot wait, health must not wait for a large number of children who especially from remote areas, to say, wait long enough on the list to be able to treat and receive adequate therapy or reviews in this clinic. So all these laws absolutely talk about the progress of the Republic of Serbia, they talk about very good, let me say, the path that the Republic of Serbia is going and that the citizens of Serbia see. So we have new jobs, we have jobs, we have young people staying in the Republic of Serbia, but what matters most is investing in new births, i.e. I then have investment in agriculture, investment in the construction of schools and hospitals, so you have the full support of Mr. Minister, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day, for all proposals of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69638	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69639	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's good to see you in that position. We have before us, among other things, a bill on censuses, households and apartments in 2021, which will be implemented from 1 to 30 April 2021, according to the state of 31 March to 24:00 hours and, immediately, if we continue this way with natural growth, we will not be difficult to list. What I'm saying is that a law like this was necessary, given the chaotic state in this area. The law should in a unique way regulate all competences and obligations both the ministries and bodies and organisations, and in particular the Republic Statistics Office, which is the institution of the entire project, as well as the list committees to be formed in municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. This is according to its purpose a specific, pure technical law that should enable the list to be mentioned. It's a job of a state that works every 10 years. It mainly changes the technical conditions, the list and the inventory of the society that gives its x-rays, shows the movement of society from the past to the future, what is the shift forward or backwards or what is the stagnation. The existence of a single continent that contains all data on housing, households and the population will do much to legal regulation alone, i.e. only a new law. It is true that the census is a complex statistical survey. I wouldn't say the most complex, it's also specific to the content of methodology and organization. It's an activity that suggests there's going to be a lot of storage after it. The list offers indicators for future state policy. It primarily refers to the state, but also to the individual. As the state understands, as it understands the data received, so will the future of citizens. Despite the fact that the state lists every 10 years for certain periods, the key point of the census will be the censusors, instructors, members of the list committees and other temporary staff to carry out the work on the list. Depending on what kind of preparation the Republic Bureau of Statistics performs, we will have a clear or cloudy picture of certain segments of society. Without the intention of underestimating this state's work, I'd like to draw attention to some of the issues that are related to the list. Of course, the list as a list, no matter how high-quality it was done, won't change anything. He's gonna put the data on the table, and then what? Here I have to make a personal suggestion, which is that if we had the education of people who are going to be involved in the electoral process, this is a far more complex job, so the learning of censuses should be much more serious. The list is next year, so as the data is published, the time is running, and the problems remain, and some are deepening. Population, households and apartments are in a close causal relationship. Here's the thing about it. I've consulted some sociological and demographic research. There are many open issues and dilemmas, such as ways and mechanisms to determine the real owners of the apartment. How many apartments are there without owners, how many households live in an apartment of, say, 30 square meters or how many houses are with over 1,000 square meters? Here I should add another proposal, which is to pay particular attention to the environments where national minorities are majority animals, not to repeat past errors when the data are forged, and from the truth of these data springs after many later rights in Serbia today there are about 410,000 registered households, and the village is about 4,800. Their numbers are down by a decade, so from census to census, they're down by a quarter. Are we going to be an agrarian country without villages and peasants? Our village has been harassed, more than 70% living in the cities Were the villagers and other State pastors, supporting schooling, escapeing youth from the village by not preparing enough young people to work in agriculture, exploring villages and demographic and sociologically is a rare thing. Our villages are between disappearance and survival. Out of many villages, only wasteful houses remain. The city once offered safety, free apartments, today it's not the case, and the village was emptying its soul. Instead of caring for the community and caring for the community, there was a deluded individualism. It's important that you stand out in the city, even if it's stupid. Only 5% of our territory belongs to cities and in such a small space are the problems both urban and social and countercultural. Migrations from villages to cities, as well as migration from smaller cities to large cities have led to a lower birth rate. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no register of apartments and buildings in Serbia today. The address register is not yet complete and up-to-date. There are unnamed streets, home numbers are missing, and where there are numbers, they don't match the records from the register. No register shall contain data on nationality, religion, mother tongue, as well as information on the highest completed school, etc. There are no data, i.e. records of persons with disabilities. It's up to our soul and mind to be our biological being, the nation's life tree. It's hard to change our almost missing demographic image. We see that in Serbia, up to the census, that's in 10 years, one city disappears, approximately the size of 40,000 inhabitants. A body should be formed at national level for demographic problems that would be in a permanent session. The traces of the past are present on this plan. We need new cradles, and it won't be as long as they multiply bachelors and singles, although the matter is left to the marriage agencies. In plains and valleys, the rivers are large areas suitable for the farming and plantation of production. When every house will be a shop or farm and every village an ethnic village. Since the development of the village, demographic restoration of the nation has begun. I didn't mention small craft workshops, shops, small family businesses, rural tourist centres, recreational centres and hospitality outside cities, but that's understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69640	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69641	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to share with you something the minister knows and what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said today, that for the first time in a long time, the participation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia in GDP is below 50%, and 48.2%, respectively, which says that already that plan "Serbia 20-25" is starting to live. At this point, I would return to one of the exhibitions we heard today, a man representing those who were in power and their ideas, from 2000 to 2012, when nothing else could say and when he found nothing wrong with the draft laws and proposals of the agreement, he found himself talking about how we are paying back the debts made today by Joseph Broz. We return them and return them safely, as we do, we return them. Joseph Broz, unlike this political group in which he is represented, has done well and raised some good credit. What were they doing? They destroyed everything from 2000 to 2012. They took overpriced loans, sold everything they could sell and made a robbery privatisation. It's useful, except for them personally, no one in this country has seen it. I think it's really neither the time nor the time for someone to talk about these loans, about loans that lead prosperity in any case, about Serbia's better future, and when I say that, I'm talking first of all about the loan, and many MPs today are talking about the loan that we're going to use for Tirshaw's number 2. And those of the "tweeter opposition" of the previous days could only abuse. They talked about the location, whether we needed it, whether we didn't need it, etc. As they abuse everything and everything that this country has set aside for the treatment of children abroad, for the treatment and other seriously ill abroad. As it is, I know perfectly well, because I was being treated abroad, without the help of the state, which they then ruled over. The same you, the gentleman who sat across from me, defends. We need Tirshaw's 2. You should. We also need Tirshova 1, but not as it is, which has no capacity, which does not have everything that can be given to our children, and thank God that we quickly finish it and thank God that there are fewer patients, than there are capacities and that single and double rooms give you. Another loan that I would pay particular attention to is a loan in agriculture saying that we continue to understand agriculture and understand as something that is mobile in the Republic of Serbia, as something that can contribute to overall development. The third loan, the one taken from Turkish banks and listened to both yesterday and today by colleagues from that part of the Raška area, with which one part of the loan will mean a lot to the realization of the project, the Pazar-Tutin road, and the other part normally for the Romanian traffic. If I were to say something about the Capital Market Act, I think today the minister explained it so nicely in his opening statement. What is most important is that, in this way, the amendments and additions to the laws that were passed in 2011, so that the amended and updated 2015 and 2016, we are approaching foreign investors of our good and thus opening up, even closer to Serbia not only in Europe, but also to the whole world. About the law that regulates the question of the list, I don't think I have anything to say after this kind of good exposure in the previous presentation and all of those today. In voting day, I'll vote for all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69642	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's a chance to continue the talks we had before. Today, there are new laws on the agenda that we owe ourselves to, new loans. My perhaps first question for you is that if we live in a golden age, if we do, how do you say never greater economic growth, if we have reached a level that no other European country can, if I have surpluses in the budget, and then why, Mr. Minister, are we re-indebted? We are generally against debt and we believe that you did not have to take all these loans and that some of these projects could have been completed from the funds and from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Not to say that we're against hospitals, so we're not against construction, like Tirshaw's 2, for which one loan is taken, but we'll remind you that you announced it in 2016. At that time, Minister Loncar said it was the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia and then Aleksandar Vukic spoke to the governor of this development bank, or the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, to be precise. So you talked about it again in 2017 before the presidential elections, so you talked about it in 2018 before the local elections in Belgrade and here in 2020, the new parliamentary elections are coming up, so my God, why don't we re-launch that topic of building Tirshaw 2. A much more serious question is why is this project so late, why isn't it already finished or in some, let's say, a further phase of building Tirshova? I think it is certainly one hospital that is representative, from which children from all over Serbia come, is that we do not lie, raise the level of service in previous years, but it is always a question of whether it could have been better and whether it could have been more. My question for you is, when are you going to invest a little money in the Institute for Mother and Child? I'm like a parent of three children often, not often, but I've had a chance to stay there on several occasions, and I have to admit that I was shocked that at the institute of such a renaissance, there is no apparatus for capillary analysis of CRP and blood counts. The last time I was a few days ago, I think there were over 100 parents and children, full of waiting rooms during this flu epidemic. He waited for five hours and the children under the temperature after five hours of waiting, they had to go in through the blood extraction from the vein, instead of doing it from the finger, which is far easier, painless. I also asked around, that machine, the medium price, there are more expensive and cheaper ones, costing about 10,000 euros, which is a very modest sum for the state, for the city of Belgrade. Now, you'll ask, Mr. Minister, where can those funds be taken from? Let me give you a few ideas. The Palilus market opened recently, and this has been quite undetected in the media. That market cost an incredible 1.5 billion dinars. Imagine, 1.5 billion dinars for the market?- I'm sorry. To understand how much money that is, for example, the annual budget of the Srljig Municipality is about 450 million dinars. Here, Milija Miletic often says it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, and within a year, the total budget is 450 million, but in Belgrade someone spends 1.5 billion on a market where, believe it or not, there are 50 fruit and vegetable jars and 36 cooling windows. For 50 gigs for fruit and vegetables, the Serbian Progressive Party's regime has paid 1.5 billion dinars, nearly 12m euros and boasts after Belgrade's leadership that we have the most modern market in this part of Europe. We, Mr. Minister, need modern hospitals, we need modern schools. The last thing Serbian and Belgrade citizens need is markets that cost 1.5 billion dinars, which certainly do not raise the quality of life of the population. In Prijepolje is the annual budget, added by Zoran Despotovic, 1.1 billion dinars. For Mladenovac, 750 million dinars, for the whole city, which is the Belgrade municipality, but imagine two total budgets for Mladenovac, you spend on the market. Is that why you were elected by Serbian citizens? Do you think that's the most needed and the best you could do with that money? And how many hospitals in Serbia could it have been made? You could have built several centers and several children's hospitals such as Tirshova, such as “Tirshova for Mother and Child”. Much more useful things could have been done with that money. This is your problem, you boast about these magnificent projects, and of these magnificent projects, Serbian citizens have absolutely nothing. On the same municipality of Palilu the whole left side, you may have forgotten that, and I hope you weren't, you were mayor of Belgrade, swimming in feces, no sewers. Now, you tell me if it was more urgent to make a market of 1.5 billion dinars or was it more urgent to do a sewerage network? And ask the citizens, not only the Palilus, but also the young man I mentioned, both Lazarets and numerous other Belgrade municipalities that do not have the basic needs, so to speak, they are not provided for their lives, what should be done and how the funds should be directed. It is, therefore, good to do and to build, but there must be some list of priorities and you must first have basic living needs and a normal life to provide for all citizens and Belgrade and Serbia, and only then enter such pointless projects. Imagine how someone from the interior feels, when they hear that someone in Belgrade is 1.5 billion dinars, which is more than the budget of their municipalities and cities spent on one market with 50 jars of fruit and vegetables and 36 cooling windows. They hate the citizens of Belgrade, and the citizens of Belgrade are not guilty of anything, because I repeat, they did not want it, nor are they in agreement with it, nor are they raising their quality of life. Finally, Minister, I would remind you once again that the Law on the temporary way of paying off pensions, kidnapped citizens of Serbia, pensioners, only directly more than a billion euros. I haven't gotten the full data yet, but I'll get there, and that's what I do intensively. You didn't answer the parliamentary questions I asked you, which in my opinion is a scandal, and sometimes it couldn't have happened that the ministers didn't answer the parliamentary questions within 15 days, and you don't seem to care. What you did with more than a billion euros, these are huge funds, you could already build Tirshova two, Tirsh Three, Tirsh Five, Tirshova Six and Tirshova Seven, of course, not in Belgrade, but in other towns of Serbia, so that everyone has a hospital nearby that you could say is the best and best quality in Europe, so you would keep a little bit of both experts and doctors. It's something that would benefit all Serbian citizens. You can't just think about fees. Imagine how much someone made, who got to build a market of 1.5 billion dinars, and to say, not from gold, not from silver, not from platinum, and yet it costs 12 million euros. Those who thought it was a gathering of the Republic Square, that it was expensively paid, eventually dropped about 6.5m euros, twice as much as the Palilus market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69644	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69645	Thank you. Dear MPs, to take the opportunity to answer a few questions that we had the opportunity to hear about pensions, I've already answered that question, but since you said yourself that you were still in the process of gathering information, and when you gather all that information, then we're going to re-cross the arguments about that question, and I'm going to wait for you to do it, and then we're going to go through it together. (Nemnja Sarovic: You never presented that information. ( ) The second topic is much more important and refers to today’s congregation meeting, which is why we are in charge. This is a question that I will answer by explaining to you first how the budget works, and then I will go along with you through the results that we have just achieved in a responsible economic policy and which are pictured, not only at a high rate of growth in our economy, but at never less unemployment. So, the budget of a country, including our countries, works by making and earning current incomes through taxes, contributions, excise taxes. On the other hand, you have some ongoing expenses. The difference between income and expenditure gives you the amount of deficits or surpluses in the budget. What is very important for Serbian citizens, for the fourth year in a row we have a surplus in the budget, in a very responsible and real way we spend money and in that budget we have never more money for capital investments. Only in 2020 will it be 260 billion dinars. That's not enough, and if we keep investing, given that, we could never build a mile of highways, or new hospitals, or new schools. We'd make it, but it would take a lot more time. We don't have that time, we've never been better at our public finances. We want to take advantage of the opportunity, that through borrowing, but borrowing at never lower interest rates, we come to a higher capital, so that the investment cycle, which we launched a few years ago, is even more accelerated, because that means new kilometers of highways, for citizens of Serbia, for new schools, for new hospitals, for new kindergartens and for better living standards. The more we build, the bigger and higher our growth rate, the more money in the budget, and the more money in the budget means higher pensions, higher wages, and that is a simple investment cycle and a responsible economic policy for which there is no other alternative. So that's why we're going to sign these contracts, like the contracts we're talking about here with you today, to take advantage of a favourable situation, to get to capital and in a shorter period of time, all these investments, all that infrastructure, and I'd like to be honest that it's someone long before we're done, but it's not, that we'd sooner end it, and that on the other hand, we don't leave our children the burden of debt, given what you've seen, we're losing public debt participation in GDP and for GDP growth, and of course because of the favourable interest rates we have on loan. In other words, we deal well with the debt they left us. What is even more important about these loans or these loans, as you said, we spend on investment in infrastructure, on what improves quality and standard of life, on the other hand makes our country more attractive and competitive. I don't know what else you've been saying about magnificent projects. It's up to every local government to define its priorities. I remember we had a program called doing what the citizens said. So we have consulted in every municipality of the Belgrade city of the citizens of Belgrade. They defined the projects that were their priority. And that's how we did it. You saw last year for this year that it was both a debate and a transparent process of adopting the city budget, so I can't comment on whether they were right, whether you were right or wrong, the citizens themselves will say. For the citizens of Palilu, the left and right side of the river is very important. So for the right-hand side of the river was a very important Palilus market, it was very important to reconstruct the street on March 27th, it was very important, I remember that, and to solve illegal buildings between blocks of buildings also on March 27th. The sewerage is also extremely important. As you know, we also provided funds to build sewers on the left bank of the Danube. These are the funds we have provided for 45m euros. Very quickly, for the next month or two days we expect the beginning of the work. Everything goes in some sort of sequence and some steps that make complete sense to me. We, honourable MPs, couldn't even talk about the completion of the sewerage on the left hand side of the Danube, could not have talked about any of these projects like the Nis Clinical Centre or the Clinical Centre of Serbia here in Belgrade, if we hadn't gone through difficult reforms, if we hadn't gone through the brave but responsible decisions that led us to the situation. They repeat once again that we have four years in a row of budget surpluses, that we have never less unemployment, so the third quarter of last year we had a 9.5% unemployment rate. I'll remind you in 2013 that rate was over 25%. We're still not happy. We fight for every new job, for every new factory, but the trend is that it's good. We have a stable involvement of public debt in our GDP. Our GDP is growing. So all economic indicators suggest that through responsible economic policy, through investment primarily in public works, or public investment, such as these investments that we are discussing here today and talking about, you can increase the growth rate of your economy. So in the end, we defined and went to Serbian citizens with the project "Serbia 2025", so 14 billion euros in the next five-year period. And we want to invest even more in infrastructure and thus improve the quality of life in Serbia's citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69646	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69647	Mr. Mali, first of all, you call responsible economic policy what you've robbed the pensioners. You have kidnapped, I repeat, from pensioners over a billion euros, and your refusal to answer a parliamentary question, which is your duty, tells you that you do not respect Serbian citizens. You are obliged to announce the exact amount in the dinar and in the five-pack how much savings were made for each year by passing the Law on the temporary payment of pensions, and you have decided to pay them off by not paying the part. It's a scandal. The second thing, you say is that debt debt is falling into debt, but in the meantime, public debt has increased by about ten billion. It's been a while longer, we've been going almost 28, now something's fallen, but it's grown significantly. The question is, if Serbia's eviction continues at this pace, will it have anyone to return? Third thing, you say we have a surplus in the budget. A surplus in the budget has emerged because capital works have been delayed. That's why he showed up. You can't pay for what wasn't done. Because those highways you're talking about were running late, and you know who was in charge, so he had to finish about a mile from the highway in eight years. So, it's not the highway something that was not seen before your coalition came to power, it's something normal that Serbian citizens had before that, they have now and should have even more. Last thing. You say you worked by having a program that decided how, here I wrote down, to do as the citizens say. And the citizens of Palilu, you claim, said we want a billion-dollar market, we want to keep swimming in feces, we're not interested in sewers, we want to have a billion-dollar market that has 50 gigs and 36 cool windows. Now, that's Mr. Minister's insult to the citizens of Serbia, not only Palilula, but anyone who thinks about what he could get from the republican budget, because that money didn't have to end up in Belgrade's budget, could end up in the budget of some other municipality and be more useful. I can't imagine and think of a worse way to spend a billion and a half dinar in a Serbia like this, but to make a single market and not a big market.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69648	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69649	Thank you. To take the opportunity to answer a few questions or comments that we had the opportunity to hear, to tell you, Mr. Sarovic, the brave and responsible decisions that were related to economic policy, which were related to reforms in 2014, are not a scandal, as you have pointed out, is what Dragan Gilas and those who were in power before that left us. It's a scandal, Mr. Sarovic, and you should call it a real name. So, the scandal is that since 2008, they've increased the amount of public debt, which was the rate of our growth, the scandal is the way the huge deficits have been made year by year, that is, Mr. Sarovic, the scandal. Talk a little bit about it to the citizens of Serbia, then talk about the situation in 2013, when you didn't have a dinar in the salary budget, for paying pensions and for courageous measures, you went ahead to secure today never more pensions, talk about it, you need to understand the causes of individual decisions and the way responsible economic policy is being implemented. Now I'm going to teach you something else. You said a surplus in the budget showed up because of a delay in work. I quote what you said - the surplus in the budget appeared due to delays in work. I hope I don't have to educate you now why and how the surplus appeared, especially when you were here when we adopted the budget rebalance for 2019, as a result, and I will repeat the increased revenues in the budget. If you hadn't had that rebalancing, then let's think even more about why and how a surplus ever emerged, there was no greater use of the budget than last year, especially for capital investments. So, you check it again, you read it, and you see why it was a surplus in the budget. We are proud that the fourth year in a row in the budget, the Republic budget, has reached a surplus, speaks enough about our responsible economic policy. Public debt, I've talked about it several times, so the public debt in absolute amount went, and you said yourself, to 3,000 billion, so it went down to 2,700 and so on, so it wasn't that it was never higher. What is particularly important is the participation of public debt in GDP, the basic and most important indicator. Because our GDP is growing, and we keep the total amount of debt constant despite the never-greater investment, we are downplaying the public debt's participation in GDP. You can't say that the worse situation was 2012, 2013, when there was over 70% of public debt participation in GDP or now, when it was below 50%. About Palilu, I'd just like to ask you not to twist my words. I never said that citizens voted for feces, but they voted for a responsible economic policy. I'll remind you, in 2014, we had a billion and 200 million euros. And I will repeat that -- a billion and 200m euros in total debts on the back of Belgrade's citizens and the city of Belgrade. He left it to us and the citizens of Belgrade in the amanet Dragan Gilas. It's not just debts that are related to loans, so that's what it gets out of the media, it says, no, it was 400 and a few million. Yes, master, but there were also debts for pregnant women and debts for maternity and public enterprises and the debts of the city councils you left us and that we had to pay back. But as you can see, the city of Belgrade since the opening of the Meita factory in Obrenovac, since the opening of the textile factory in Lazarevec, since the construction of the bypass, since the construction of new kilometers and sewers and waternets, is currently in the construction of a waste-making plant, i.e. that solid waste into electricity, which is huge things that drive Belgrade forward, one bridge, Pupin bridge, another bridge, etc. And as I told you, we provided funds to build sewers on the left bank of the Danube and in the next month, two, three we expect the beginning of the work. So we'll solve this problem. You can't solve everything right now, especially not when you don't come out of a position that you've been left with these before you, but when you have a huge minus that you have to pay back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69650	Thank you, Minister. Necessa Sarovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69651	Mr. Minister, you're talking about that scandal being left to you by those who were before you. I must inform you that it was you before you, Mr. Minister. You were part of the DOS government. You participated in the implementation of their economic policy. You took part in a robbery privatisation, and you played a prominent role. The second thing, when you say scandal is these things they've done since 2008. Which one, Mr. Minister? The scandal is that 80% of those who applaud you as you speak are just the ones who were part of that government. Did Dragan Gilas have more than 56 councilmen or less? Who did that power in Belgrade? Who did power in Serbia? Has DS ever won an absolute victory in the election? It's not. The Serbian Progressive Party has won an absolute victory in the elections, but instead of processing those yellow ones and thieves, and those who have robbed them, and those who have destroyed them, you, gentlemen, have chosen to absorb them and take them back with you in power. And that's true. Is it incorrect what I said? Were you able to do without them, and without Rasim, and without Vuk Draskovic, and without the edge of Dacic and Palma, and Karic and anyone? Yes, it is. You had most of it yourself. Why didn't you take responsibility? You took over their personnel, and you took over them and decided to take them. Why don't you process them? That's the point. Next, you say, Mr. Minister, that you will educate me. So I spoke to you politely, and you must know how the minister can address the MP. So, if we're going to talk about education, you, Mr. Mali, are not an expert, because we all know how your education ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69652	Mr. Sinisha Mali, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69653	I don't know, Mr. Sarovic, do you want to discuss your authority in Old Town and Mr. Bastac? So let me ask you, do you also support people putting bags on their heads, stealing and blackmailing people who are building legally or illegally, since, if I'm not mistaken, if we're to be honest, you're part of that government? It would seem that you share the same values as those with which you are currently in power in the Old Town municipality. But I would ask you, too, if you were at least telling the truth about communication. If you're talking about some robbery privatisations, give me one. And I've mentioned my engagement to you a hundred times and you're going back to the same thing from 2001 to 2003. From 2003, Mr. Sarovic, until 2013, to educate you a little more, is a 10-year difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69654	Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69655	Mr. Minister, here, let me ask you a few questions. Are you ashamed to sit in a government that allows criminals to walk free on the streets? You keep talking about how Dragan Gilas stole 619m euros. Well, you're ashamed of anything that's not in jail! Arrest him! Arrest him now! He did not finance the Serbian Radical Party, but rather financed your party magazine, the daily Justice newspaper. They are the ones who formed your party, who protected your mandates, who violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about power in Old Town and you say -- someone was robbing, someone was hitting a racket on investors. Well, why didn't you arrest her? Who's that? I know there's a man who confessed to committing a crime, taking bribes, keeping that money, and you're not arresting him. Why don't you arrest him? Second, let's talk, if we're going to talk about crime, you've arrested all of Baja's municipal leadership. All SNS members. Excuse me, in Pozega, and in Baja Garden. Look out, there's plenty of 'em. You're the ones who keep announcing dealings with thugs, with criminals, with incompetent personnel from their own ranks. Well, the president of your party says openly -- 80% of these people in the Assembly have to replace, says they're going to bring in real, young, beautiful, smart, honorable. Well, how are you? What are you like? How come it doesn't bother you when someone tells you to? But it's just a hoax for the citizens. You will arrest your incompetent people from the National Assembly elsewhere. There, Babic celebrated with the "aircraft", so look how he progressed and is still a man of the V.D. Director, although he resigned more than a year ago. It is a sad and cruel reality in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69656	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69657	Thank you. Your Honour, you're not quite right. If you remember a process that, if I'm not mistaken, continues to take place against the city manager who was during the rule of Dragan Gilas about machination and abuse during the reconstruction of King Alexander's boulevard, etc., so that's all in progress. I can't comment, nor can I influence the work of both the judicial authorities and the relevant other institutions, but it's not that we didn't do it and that we didn't react. Also, it relates to the situation or that big scandal that was in the Old Town municipality. I hope both the prosecution and all the other competent institutions do their part of the job. We can't do it for them and we can't interfere with their independence, but we've also shown responsibly that those who break the law in our ranks for it should respond. I think it's a big difference between those who were before us and everyone who ran this government, because we showed that there are no untouchables and that anyone who breaks the law will also be responsible for their actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69658	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69659	Mr. Minister, you're just doing what you said to yourself that you can't. First of all, you say you can't comment on the actions that are under way, and you people who aren't being prosecuted by any criminal act you're declaring criminals against. That's what you do from the minister's position. That's exactly what an illegal influence is on both the prosecution and the judiciary and many others. You just mentioned some city manager and said the procedure was under way. Then why are you commenting on him? I didn't mention him. You did. We had a time situation to tell us President Vukic that Dragoslav Kosmajac is the largest drug dealer in Serbia and says – urgently arrests and closes etc. Arrest himself, he gets votes in the election, then the only criminal report that this gentleman, I never heard of him before, nor did I ever see him in my life, was inciting a geometer to abuse his official position. So nothing to do with what you said in public. Your job isn't even public speaking, it's your job to secure a quality system. You say you can't influence the work of the D.A.'s office. You can do that. There are, you may not know it, there are mechanisms for all prosecutors, all judges who do the opposite of the law to be cleared. The problem is that instead of criminals, you're dealing with political opponents and that none of the criminals are practically in jail. So, enough of that farce, Mr. Minister. So you're not the one who can talk about fighting crime, which you can talk about not having those that are untouchable. Arrest Zorana Mihajlovic. Let's see if there's any untouchables. A woman spends more than a million dinars on a ministry card. No one, come back after a year, and that's fine. A woman's story - she's not getting paid in the government, she's getting paid by Megatrend, who everyone says hasn't been paid there for months. And no one. The woman buys 30,000 dinar gloves, has 10,000-euro bags on it. Is there a serious European country where the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister could receive no salary as minister and vice president, but at a dubious private university? It doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69660	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69661	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, obviously we don't understand things, we don't want to know. You know, I realize that someone was participating in executive power with Dragan Gilas, so now it's being sprayed with ash. You know. It is not the board of directors of the public company of the Assembly Working Body of the local self-government unit. The board of directors of a public enterprise is the government of the company. The fact that Mr. Sarovic has delegated his party members to the boards of public enterprises while Dragan Djilas was Belgrade's current mayor means only one thing to me -- that he was helping Dragan Gilas destroy the city of Belgrade. Now, I guess for that reason that neither Dragan Gilas is in power anymore, the biggest problem is the SNS and those results we have. You know what? Through all these discussions that were by one part of the opposition that participates in the work of the National Assembly, including in many means of public information, and even on RTS, etc. economic experts are trying to relativise and minimise all of the results of the Serbian government and ultimately banalise. Here, I'll just say a few sentences, which one of my colleagues said, to set an example of what it looks like. They were highways before SNS. They were highways and were built before Alexander Vukic. You haven't invented anything new. Well, I agree. The last highways made and completed were from the time of Broz Yugoslavia. She fell apart 30 years ago. What other highways can we talk about? About the highway of Subotica – Belgrade that was being played while the minister was in DOS government, in the first government of Zoran Djindjic, Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic? That's when they started building that highway and didn't finish it for 13 years? The bridge on Beška was built in 2013 or 2014, finished, no one knows how much it was paid. We can also talk about the highway from Presevo to Vranj, launched in 2008, expropriated. He was paid, and then the public contractor went bankrupt. Imagine that now. Well, we paid for the stealth highway, nothing else. Are we going to talk about these highways that were built in western Serbia, when they went from field to field, they skipped parcels etc. to show up to do something? We didn't make up highways like that. So what we did is relativating, banalizing -- they made others. Who defended those who were before us 12 years ago in power to build one highway? Who defended the completion of the bypass around Belgrade, participated in Belgrade's executive government, participated in the work of public enterprises, participated in the boards of directors of these public enterprises? What's with the ashes now? Here's another example, Mr. Minister, as things are banalising, is that, one of our colleagues said our GDP has grown because, because of the construction of this arm that goes through Serbia, Turkey, or South Stream, it has dramatically increased GDP growth in the Republic of Serbia. I do not blame colleagues who have no idea about it, because they are informed through RTS, so there is an economist, Ruzica Nikolic, I think, said that 1% of it has raised GDP in the Republic of Serbia. Then the journalist asks, the leader – what is the GDP in the Republic of Serbia? It says -- it's about 33, 34, 35 billion euros or dollars. Now imagine someone calling yourself an expert, an economist, talking about Serbia's economy, and doesn't know that GDP in the Republic of Serbia is over 46 billion euros, but they are being informed. We are now talking about how the banalisation of everything that is done in the Republic of Serbia, and it is good for the Republic of Serbia. The next thing you know about banalization is... You know what, you're raising your loans and these loans are much cheaper than they were before. They're cheaper, but it's not your fault, Mr. Minister, it's not the government's fault, it's not Alexander Vukic's fault. It says – these are the circumstances in the capital market that have affected that we have cheaper, that we can raise cheaper loans. What are not to say that loans became much cheaper with the start of the global economic crisis that began in 2008 and when the first one took down the US reference interest rate, their FED, put the retailer on zero, which caused, firstly, a jump in the euro compared to the dollar, and then the European Central Bank reduced its reference interest rate to keep the economy competitive, so that, at the end of 2010, with the outbreak of the Greek crisis, it was about zero or something below zero? What, then, in 2011 and 2012, did we borrow on these same international markets with five, six, seven or eight percent interest on an annual basis? Because we had a bad credit rating, because everyone knew that Serbia did not have a favourable economic and economic environment, because they knew that we had irresponsible authority and didn't want to give it small-risk money, or small interest rates. It's all relativating. Now here's the story, Mr. Minister, about that famous market. The city of Belgrade, which has over two million inhabitants, the city's core of over a million inhabitants and now one stands up and says: you paid the market, what, a billion and 400. First it was a billion and 400, so it jumped to a billion and 500, if he had talked for 10 minutes, it would have been over two billion. He says it's 50 gigs, 35, 36 cool windows, and it costs that much. Which doesn't say it's 12,700 square meters of business space. That's not what he's gonna say. That's not what he's gonna say, and there's 72 joints. He won't say that either. It doesn't add up. It's important that we make fun of everything, that no one does anything, that everything is funny. So he thinks it's funny now. Say, Mr. Minister, it was you and me in China. China is a country that should set an example for the Republic of Serbia in many things. They do work really quickly to reach all those Western standards they set ahead of themselves, including standards when it comes to hygienic standards in retail facilities and markets. The one who laughs about that orderly market that doesn't say that now this new flu epidemic has started exactly, or that coronary virus right off the market that didn't meet the hygiene-sanitary conditions. It's funny to him, too. He thinks everything's funny. He's going to banalize everything. Nothing's been done. Then we will turn to another story, that those parts of Serbia lagging behind, and it is natural to lag behind, Belgrade is both the capital and the economic and political and every other centre, that the rest of Serbia lags behind Belgrade, so that some voice is siphoned from the interior by the city of Belgrade with municipalities that are economically weaker. Why don't we say that all over Serbia is being made? Indeed, it is being built throughout Serbia. It mentioned fellow MPs here as many as the Republic of Serbia has new construction sites. It doesn't matter to them either. It's important that we make fun of something, banalize everything that's done. One banality, Mr. Minister, the same thing that your colleagues don't know, so they say -- well, you know what, you're taking loans now, you're making highways, you're building some hospitals there, you're making some clinical centres, you're making something out there, these loans come in 20 years, so our kids are gonna pay it back. Okay, Mr. Minister, now let me ask - who are we working for? Are we making this for some spacers? Is that what we make of leaving our children? Are we improving their quality of life? Do we improve their conditions, or do we want them to have better conditions to live here, work here, thrive here, than we did when we started our own life course on our own? Well, I guess we work for them, but that's funny, too, and that's what we're going to banalize. Everything that's done has to be thrown out by mockery. I understand some colleagues don't know what a surplus is. It's a surplus when you have bigger incomes than you planned. It's a surplus. The deficit, that's what we can talk about, because they've touched on it again, I guess, out of ignorance or desire to make fun of everything. They say -- since you've been in power, public debt has grown by over 10 billion. Come on, let's figure out what public debt is. Is public debt only to what the National Assembly gives consent in the form of laws or is public debt and that obligation that was created and that was to be paid out of regular income, and that same obligation is not settled and paid? Is that a public debt? It is, not to tell what they are and what debts they have left us in the Republic of Serbia. How could we have had one crazy situation to earn us interest and debts with which we have nothing to do with being bigger than GDP growth? It's called bankruptcy, and that's why these measures are unpopular, but they're determined to be applied in 2014, because when you're saving something, you don't ask for a price and you don't ask whether you're going to stay in power or not, but rather do something for your country and your people, regardless of the political scene. I only know one politician who dared to do so in Serbia in recent Serbian history. It's Alexander Vukitch, and these others watched them get better. Let's turn them off. I know, Mr. Minister, that's the story they're always going to be about -- so why don't you arrest the tycoons? Well, the tycoon's no ordinary criminal. The tycoon is very close to the authorities. Miskovic was very close to Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas and the entire team around them. He bribed them that the National Assembly was passing laws so that he could get rich without coming under the same laws. They're your tycoons. Both Miskovic and Šolak and the whole team. So now I ask the question: why does no one in the opposition mention them? What no one says - they're criminals, they're thieves, they're bastards, they're bastards, they've ruined, they've robbed Serbia. Why don't they say their names? Here I said about two, both Šolak and Miskovic and Gilas, here's the third, Tadic was not a tycoon, he passed by, he didn't even know what he was doing, Bojan Pajtic etc. I'm talking about tycoons. I ask the question, instead of defending their life form and action, let them attack them once, let them say – they stole in the Republic of Serbia, put them away as soon as possible, no, but – why didn't you? Well, I don't know if they were working with them. Whenever there is this brake, I ask the question – do they have any particular reason why they don't get attacked? If I were an opposition, no one could stop me at something like that. There was no chance, although I was being warned not to touch Miskovic and the team as an opposition, but there was no Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, but some of the others from my former party, so I attacked them. So, Mr. Minister, whatever you do, whatever this government does to our political opponents, so to speak. economic experts will all try to relativise, eventually banalise, to show that nothing has been done. They only have one problem, which is to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for that they have only a time period of several months where Serbian citizens will assess both SNS and the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandr Vukic. Let's leave it to their court, they're always right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69662	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69663	I'm reporting under Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, I was called back a few minutes ago by Mr. Sarovic, related to Svrlig for those funds that are for the Svrlig budget. I can only say a few things about these small environments of ours. It is very important for us that the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us are working to ensure better living conditions. The budget of our municipalities and these and such municipalities that are similar to the southeast of Serbia is insufficient. Normally it takes more, but we have opportunities and we've talked here several times, and I've asked for and submitted amendments that when certain proposals for agriculture laws are made, that much more is allocated for rural areas, for undeveloped areas, that such budgets are pumped into funds through programmes, through projects for every newborn child, for an unemployed foster parent, for every couple that is made in those environments. There's supposed to be a bigger separation. I think that Serbia's next period should continue to be built in Belgrade, but normally it would be more isolated for our small municipalities, for those small communities. I, for example, have a village of Palilu in Svrlig, it would be good in that village of Palilu to do something, it would be good and the city municipality of Nis – Palilu and there to do something. It's good to work everywhere. The state of Serbia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has been working really back eight years in each part of our Serbia, but I think we should set out more for mountainous and mountainous areas, for Svrlig, for Bela Palanka, for Gadjin Han, for those small areas. There are people out there, there's a need, and I'm sure the Ministry of Finance will recognize it in the next period, and so far they're from the Ministry of Finance and you, Mr. Minister, you've always been on the side of these small municipalities and when we needed some help, is that educational, is that financial assistance, you've worked on it and we've ended these problems. In the next period we will all work to solve the problem, to solve water supply, to solve the employment of people, to make people in our villages, to make women in our villages more stimulating and thus already working on infrastructure, to build roads. Now, Mr. Arsic came out, and he was at our place in Svrlig. Mr. Sarovic was in Svrlig, perhaps he passed a path that goes towards the Old Mountain and was done completely. The access roads to Svrlig have been done completely, so it is done and built, but I think it would be good and excellent to work in Belgrade, but we need to stand out more for Southeast Serbia, for small areas, for such areas as Svrljig, Bela Palanka and others. Once again, the Vice President of the Assembly, this is your first time in office since we've been here. I congratulate you. You do it well and I don't mind, since you may not have heard when Mr. Sarovic called me, that is, when he mentioned it, you didn't hear and I don't want to vote on the injured of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69664	Thank you, fellow Milly. Now, the right to the replica of Veroljub Arsic, MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69665	I really think that every address by Veroljub Arsic is an epochal contribution both to economic science and in general to the development of parliamentaryism in Serbia and I must say that no one would explain better than him why no tycoons are arrested. He says Arsic - tycoon is not a common criminal. It's a criminal who's close to the government, so don't get arrested. That's right, Mr. Arsic, but what you obviously don't understand is that you are thus accusing your party, which has been the ruling party in Serbia for eight years. And that's the point. You say no one should mention Miskovic. I've never met this gentleman in my life, nor do I owe him anything. But I ask you -- if he's the biggest tycoon, if he's the one who robbed the citizens of Serbia the most, so how many of you have led the process against him in eight years, how many have you illegally earned him? Commend to it in front of Serbian citizens and let's see if it's the only tycoon in Serbia? I believe there are more. Why don't you arrest him and Sollac and anyone else who robbed Serbia? Why are you protecting thieves? Why is your regime protecting thieves? So that's what the question is. Secondly, the same gentleman says, well, thank God we've got a billions-and-a-half dinar Palilla market, because he says, here I'm skipping that in Vuhana, the coronary virus started right off the market, so I guess we're at the Palilla bar, let's all sit on the market, there's now the most modern market, so to save ourselves from the Coronary Virus. This shows the way little Djokica resonates about economy and politics and how he underlines parallels between things that can't be connected absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69666	Thank you. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69667	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, including little Djokica, know that the very authority led by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic has arrested Miroslav Miskovic. They're not others, and as far as I know, they're not released, they're legally convicted of tax evasion. And he and his son. Some look even little Djokica knows to me that these gentlemen mentioned, Solak, Djilas, Pajtic and others did not commit crimes while SNS is in power and that they are tycoons who wrote laws during DS authorities. It's that power that the SNS couldn't beat at any price to keep the status quo to keep robbing. So that was obviously the goal and all those who attacked the SNS back then as opposition. They also defended Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas and Miskovic, and Solak and Pajtic. That's familiar. Only one law I shall state that has been passed by the National Assembly, voted upon, went directly in favour of the tycoon. It was the Foreign Exchange Act. A law that they say is the largest foreign investment in Serbia, which is the sale of "Maxia", sold to a Cypriot firm since the property was on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the money was supposed to return to the Republic of Serbia, no, Miskovic is forcing Tadic to vote the law and to stay in Cyprus. That's true. Now, those are tycoons. So that's when they came, that's when they got rich. We try to process them, but we certainly do not defend them, and we do not defend their life form and work as some MPs of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69668	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really interesting this economic exposure of SNS economic expert Veroljub Arsic, and I really don't believe that you have a better economist than he is. So, what he's worth is one minute to believe that I'm so eager to wait for him to say something and absorb that knowledge, because those things anywhere else you can't hear. He talks about Miskovic, and Miskovic writes in his book that Toma Nikolic, whose campaign he financed, guaranteed he would not respond, would not be arrested. Look, he didn't mention anyone from the SRS, I didn't see that Tomislav Nikolic sued him to protect his great reputation and his great unsuspecting no honor and to say that it wasn't true, that it was someone else, that someone dressed up, dropped his ID card and went there with a personal card. So this thing about the Coronal Virus you've perfectly explained to Mr. Arsic. This is about the tycoons not getting arrested because they're close to the top of the regime and you really explained it perfectly. I'm asking you to go back to the US reference rate, to the Central European Bank, to the Federal Reserve of America, because I really believe that you as an economic expert can say a lot. It's especially interesting that you're the only economic expert to graduate from the Kostolc High School of Electrical Engineering.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69670	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69671	In order for a man to finish a college, he has to finish high school first. One more thing, I can't get electrocuted and I'm not afraid to turn on a computer like some. So we understand each other right now. Now, all of this is well said by counterpart Sarovic, he just forgot one thing to say, that Tomislav Nikolic was then a presidential candidate for the SRS. He didn't go in front of a group of citizens, there was no SNS at the time. Well, why don't you say so? One more thing, if you had political protection or not, the events have been denied. Miskovic was in custody until the entire pre-crisis procedure was completed, until all witnesses made statements, until all the experts gave their skills. Don't twist my words. I said the definition of tycoon, and I fenced nicely that it was the tycoons of the former regime. Don't put in my mouth what I didn't say, and whether I'm a political expert for you, if you have anything to learn from me, I won't say anything but something else that isn't about your discussion, which is that I'm political penicillin for you and I'll throw you all the time at your ignorance and boast about how you behave in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69672	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69673	You're such a penicillin, Mr. Arsic, that I wouldn't be surprised if they packed you into small bottles and started with these doses and you to fight this crown virus. Look, it's that level, the expert level at SNS, that really nothing can surprise us, and you're right when you say you said a lot of things. But the problem is you're telling the truth. So, a conversation described by Miroslav Miskovic in his book took place in the Chamber of Presidents of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, so at a time when he was not a member of the SRS long ago. I'll remind you that the SRS left and together with you, stole the mandates in 2008, and that he was elected president much later. And, second question -- does that mean, you say, you have fenced, tycoons are criminals close to the government, but only in the previous regime. Did that change the tycoons in this regime or do you claim that the tycoon is gone? That would be that expert level again, to say, here, Miroslav Miskovic was the only tycoon, the other one is gone, and that's why we have no one to process, not because today's tycoons are close to the regime. What, perhaps most interesting, you say that a man would graduate from college has to finish high school. You're Mr. Arsic's senior high school, and you did it in Kostolc at a time when you were young and when you were supposed to. But in a magical way, when you enter the sixth decade of your life, there is a college degree. You say you've graduated from college, so let's hear where such economic experts are being made, boast a little with your knowledge of the university, let the citizens of Serbia hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69674	Veroljub Arsic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69675	I would recommend to you here your party colleague Miroljub, a close associate, has some correspondence, which is legally condemned because it presents itself, which is what it was, that he graduated from Lomonos University in Moscow. That's what it's all about. One more thing, we can discuss both my knowledge and my expertise and everything, but Mr. Sarovic, I'm not a liar. I don't live in Vranj, I don't travel falsely from Vranj. One more thing, you have now said that the conversation between Tomislav Nikolic and Miskovic and the cash transaction took place in the cabinet of the President of the Republic. As far as I know, it could only have happened between the 2012 and 2017 elections. In 2017, the presidential candidate in front of the SNS was Aleksandar Vukic, not Tomislav Nikolic. As you lie facelessly, I'm going to give you another example, that's what you talked about by 2012, both Miskovic and that money. Maybe that's funny to you. Tomislav Nikolic, before 2012, was exclusively the Serbian Radical Party's presidential candidate. Maybe it doesn't matter to you, I don't think it's important, but for one thing alone, it shows what kind of man you are, how willing you are to go far for a small handful of voices and how willing you are to lie to get that handful of votes. One more thing, whether I'm your penicillin or not, when you attacked me by 2012, you didn't pass the censorship as head of the SRS city board at the Belgrade City Assembly. When you lost my head for four years, you returned to parliament. So I recommend you, at the same time you were also presented as a bankruptcy manager of the SNS, stop being a bankruptcy manager of the SNS, because you will become an automatic bankruptcy manager of the SRS. But look at your political goals, your political agenda, and don't touch our results, they're ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69676	Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69677	Mr. Arsic, from the way you understand the economy, the only way you understand politics is perhaps a better way to understand politics. I have to admit, I'm really fascinated. I don't know if you're prepping those speeches in advance, that would explain things, or if those ideas were just coming up to you and screaming, etc. So you claim that on a political scene who attacks Veroljub Arsic, he cannot pass the censorship. He who hears of Veroljub Arsic won. You, Mr. Arsic, have a big problem and see how relaxed I am and how smiling I am, and you're moving to use lies, you're moving to use insults. I'm asking you nice, human, normal, correct, which is the esteemed college you've graduated from? I guess, it's some Londonian thing, it's something that's extremely serious, is it Cambridge, is it Oxford, what it is... Look out, but certainly this knowledge that you're presenting, so, as your colleague suggested, that the exposés of Alexander Vukic be printed as a scientific paper, here I suggest that each of your presentations be printed as scientific work. But, come on, don't deny the nation, don't deny the young people who are supposed to be educated, so why don't you share with us what college it is, when you've finished it? I believe they'll rush there into that educational facility, so that everyone from your party tomorrow, that complete that rejuvenation will be as smart, beautiful and educated as you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69678	Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69679	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the level of knowledge of a man can help him in his professional life, but everyone but that professional act has something personal, and whether someone is lying or telling the truth belongs to personal matters. Whether he's honest or a thief, it doesn't matter which college he graduated from, or where he ended up, but he's a thief. When someone is corrupt, a liar and a thief, often in politics tries to turn the topic of conversation into other things, to hide what is true, and the truth is that one of his colleagues used to come to the congregation's register every day, not like now, but every day to come to the congregation's register where the payment order was filled in and signed up by hand to travel from Vranja to Belgrade. In this way he unlawfully damaged the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for 19,000 euros or just over two million dinars, and now he's going to tell me something and ask me a question where I graduated from college. Well, he doesn't even have the right to ask me what my name is, or what time it is, he doesn't have the right to tell me a good day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69680	The word is written by the messengers of the people, the messenger of the people, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69681	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I am really glad that here in the multi-party and now for the first time today, after almost four years of this term, you have also shown the opportunity to chair the session of the National Assembly in the most democratic way. There is little time left and a set of these laws is an explanation of our criticisms, Mr. Minister, I'm going to start with this loan that should improve the work of the Republic Geodesy Institute, in fact a cadastre, which is one of the great pains of our society. Of course, it absolutely has nothing to do with you, you may have, as Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, had good intentions to improve the work of this service in this way. However, as long as Zorana Mihajlovic and the director of Bora Draskovic's cadastre, this is indeed one crime scene and connection. The work of the Geodetic Authority will not be able to improve. In every city in Serbia, it is known exactly what kind of racket employees take, and above all the heads of the geodetic departments to finish the job for citizens, which otherwise costs between five and 8,000 dinars, no one can do it without compensation, or without the racket required of them. That mob started doing it organized a few years ago and it even exists, it's a public secret, a cafe on 27th Street. Martha, where money comes from, and that is a minimum of 500 euros for you to finish that job you have to do there because of the legal-formal loops with 500 euros of rackets, and that is indeed an amazing problem, and especially the fact that many Serbian citizens, more specifically over 40,000 who have filed a second-degree complaint because they have been challenged by the basic solutions to write down their properties. It's about a lot of families. Many families that can't finish their basics, children can't school, they can't move to another place where they want to live, and this catastrian mob is really something that will mark this mandate of the SNS rule and the fact that they've all been deaf about such objections, complaints from citizens and unsolved over 40,000 cases. As for the Census of Objects and Apartments Act in 2021, we were really able to listen all day long about how one laptop will solve all the work and it's great and it's advanced and it's going to give great results. I'm really wondering if these MPs who spoke from authorized representatives from power through individuals have ever read this law? Do you know what a real and serious approach means and learn from the census? You think, it's just like that, there comes a censusor, now there's this laptop, asks what your name is, who lives there, what you're doing, and that's it. It's not supposed to be a purpose, Mr. Minister, and yet it's not your strict jurisdiction, it's not the ones who came to explain the way it's going to be done, it's the purpose of the census. What did you advancers learn from the 2011 census? Have you, after leaving these yellow thieves and these thugs in power, dealt with some methods to see what you're going to come from? If you had that census, and you do, everyone can look at it in the "Official Messenger" tables that say that at that time in Serbia seven million and 160,000 people were listed, and that it is clear that there are now less than seven million, that people have left the village, that many young people have left Serbia, that many have been forced to shut down their agricultural holdings. What is then a lesson for you from the government, which based on these parameters, you should have made some strategies, some programs, and above all, Mr. Minister, to pass laws, to prevent a further outflow of people from villages, young people from Serbia and to speed up the birth rate. Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic told us a journalist's question a few days ago, yes, she is faced with it, as she runs this particular Ministry of Natality, that there will be fewer and that the figures are inexorable, so we will see afterwards. What do you have to watch after that? Why didn't you accept the laws proposed by the SNS MPs? I guess you're in a hurry to that bell every time the regular session starts, and that's what I end up with, Mrs. Radeta, because it's been spent almost the entire time of our parliamentary group, to remind the citizens of Serbia. Ambassador Zoran Despotovic asked that subsidies in agriculture be increased and that the milk premium instead of seven be 10 dinars, that the subsidy that goes for plant production, instead of 6,000 be 9,000 dinars, and MP Tomislav Ljubenovic also asked to prevent all these negative natural growths that will be shown by the census, that each child in Serbia by the age of 18 will receive 12,000 dinars from the state of Serbia, in order to have the life of so many worthy men, which many parents unfortunately cannot enable their children, and you are finishing this mandate without such very important changes and without such help from families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69682	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69683	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Associates, today I'm going to talk about a loan to build a new UDK Tirshova 2 in Belgrade, but before I start to explain this loan law, I have to remember, someone mentioned Mr. Pajtic today, and we haven't talked about him and his massive malversions in a long time, so let's remind ourselves what it used to be like, and what we're doing today. They destroyed, they destroyed, they built, they didn't build, they took money, and we end everything they started. To remember that 2016, July 4th, the cameras came, called from Bojan Pajtic, it was a few days before the elections, cut the tape, aaaaa, finished Kamenica 2, bravo, wonderful, people entered, and there all hollow and empty. The 2nd Hospital, the institute, wasn't finished, 1 o'clock. Under two, he didn't get a building permit or a service permit, and under three, an empty Stonestone, they didn't bring anything in. Shame on them. The new government came, the new government came, the new mayor came, we finished, while the institute was built for eight years and 30m euros were spent, and the colorful lie, the Kobajagi man opened the Kamenica 2. It was embarrassing, fortunately, that people saw how they worked, how they stole, they chose new power, the Serbian Progressive Party, and we ended up with a six-month complete "Kamenica 2". Thank God, they're doing both wings, they're filling it up. These are the most modern instruments. So that sad story is over. Pajtic went into oblivion, was and never returned. We only remember during his reign a very sad story from the village of Bočar, where it was to be made on the land of the "Hatterland" they left the state in amannet to create a special children's special needs office. Dade Pajtic, one and a half million euros for this, for a children's centre with special needs, and only one board still remains today that costs a million and a half euros. I'm surprised he didn't know what his doctors were doing to him, what happened to that million and a half euros. We know what happened, but they don't know the Bochar people yet, so by miracle they're wondering, they've been promised 50 new jobs, of those 50 new jobs, not one place imaginary center, tragedy, I mean it's so sad that I don't want to talk about it anymore. He didn't come back. We do things completely different, we work through projects. Yeah, we're taking loans, but we're taking loans with 2% interest, I even heard it gives one 0.61 loan, which is good. We have recovered all their debts and are now building programmes that cover 12 projects: construction and equipment of state-owned health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 3,200,000 dinars. I read this just so people know what they did, what they didn't do, what we did, and then I'll go back to Tirshaw 2. Construction and equipment of health institutions at local level includes the supply of medical and other equipment and everything they haven't done. The project of reconstruction of clinical centres is financed from the European Investment Bank's credit and budget funds. I must say, my dear colleague, Mr. Bojanic, had this accident to be sick, so he was in the hospital. I was also in 2011, thank God only for three days, because some of these yellow bugs wanted to eat me and those poor people for being there. Everything's broken, dirty toilets. We have extraordinary doctors, we have extraordinary nurses, but what's worth when everything's broken? No er-condices, broken windows, doors. Now there's a completely different picture, not everywhere, not in every place, but a lot has been done, a lot has changed for the better, so we adapt, reconstruct the clinics. We built a new clinic in Nis, a completely new one, which is divine. We'll also work in Kragujevac. The Clinical Center in Belgrade has been renovated that way for 40 years, God forbid, here, we'll finish it. Now let me go back to this "Tirshaw 2". The first clinic was modelled at the Paris clinic in 1936 and was indeed a couple of excellency clinics for the treatment of our children, however, it has been so many years now, this clinic is quite outdated, small capacities, small operating halls. In three years, 150,000 children have been examined, which is a very large number and I am very sorry that so many children have been ill. But that's why, when a child is sick, they need to give him maximum conditions to get better as soon as possible. We took a 54,000-euro loan. The state from budget funds, but also from credit and donor funds will donate further to end "Tirshova 2" fortunately that our children will be treated in better and more favourable conditions. We have extremely favourable interest on this. We have a waiting period of up to five years. The credit must be used until 2023, when this clinic will be completed. I'm sure he'll be here before the deadline, because everything we do is open at least a month before the deadline. So I'm happy to vote on the bill of these laws and all the laws that are in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69684	Thank you. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69685	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, given that we have a lot of points and a bill, I would like to set out the point of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, and it is related to a project for a more competitive economy with the support and loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I believe this agreement gives an even greater incentive to the Serbian economy. Thanks to our stable finances and economies, this is, in fact, a confirmation, above all, the trust of the International Bank and the international community to the Republic of Serbia. It is important to note that the interest rate of that loan is the lowest possible. The objective of that agreement is to further develop and improve the economy. The advantages of this agreement are to strengthen access to agricultural services, further business development, even better implementation of productive investments, and then to design and implement a digital communication strategy and improve hardware, software and human capacities, i.e. the full modernisation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which is aimed at raising awareness of the project and providing support for modern agriculture and for encouraging wide participation of stakeholders, which will contribute to the creation of a new number of jobs in the future and thus, by reducing the unemployment rate already at 9.5%. With this bill, we provide the possibility to finance different production activities for financing capital investments, labour capital, technical support and for the necessary training of existing and future employees with grants. I will remind our citizens that in previous, 2019, we have made it possible to give grants to encourage and develop small and medium-sized enterprises, then to support the business infrastructure development programme. We had the award of grants to different producers for production, for participation in the programme of promotion of entrepreneurship, for the purchase of the necessary equipment, such as the purchase of a domestic tractor, and we also gave subsidies for self-employment. This year, all competitions for grants that were current and previous will be renewed. In every sense, I believe that this agreement is a good measure to help and facilitate the further development and business of our Serbian companies. Thanks to the new "Serbia 2025" investment programme, we are investing an additional 300m euros in the agriculture sector alone, where certain funds will go for irrigation and tractors for farmers. I will certainly talk about this new investment cycle next time I leave time for my distinguished colleagues. In our country, the Republic of Serbia, which is well developed today, it is evident that significant acts are being born, because our policy of leadership is that the state was born for a man, not a man for a country. We, as citizens, would be really happy that the departure of Dragan Gilas from power and all the debts made during his reign, the overpriced loans with a high interest rate and an empty state cash register, unremembered debts, are a feature of irresponsible and looting policies, and that is our tragic past and our reality to which, unfortunately, we must always return, because I think that we would have implemented reforms even faster and more quickly in all areas, that so-called. The opposition hasn't gotten that far. So today with great and hard work we are doing and we are still trying to change the economic climate by effective economic measures and it is evident that we are successfully fixing what was previously ruined, our people see it, I am sure of it. I thank the respected citizens for the trust and support they show us, because we are aware that the state in which only a settlement and public robbery is promoted in principle – let me control the money in the state only for my own pockets and I don't care about the laws, wants evil to its children, our children and our citizens. And throughout history, we have seen that there is no improvement for the citizens. Today, our Serbia exists in favour of the good and better lives of citizens, not just in favour of the lives of some politicians, as was the case with Dragan Gilas and 618 million, which we all remember with bitter memory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69686	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69687	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, today is the draft law on population censuses, households and apartments in 2021. It is widely known that a census has been conducted in Serbia for 10 years and that paper questionnaires have been completed so far. In 2021, for the first time, laptops will be used to collect data. The paper is also the establishment of a mechanism for connecting list and geospace data at home number level, which will certainly be contributed to by the new Law on the Register of Space Units and the address register. Data obtained from the list in 2021 will serve to define the degree of urbanisation, the typeology of rural and urban areas, as well as other missing classifications. The list of 2021 will be used for checking, covering and quality of data kept in administrative registers, as well as for establishing a statistical register of the population, which will be the basis for the implementation of the census in 2031. A key role in all phases of its implementation is played by the Republic Statistics Institute, as well as the list committees formed at the level of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. A list of 2021 will provide reliable data on economic, ethnic, migration, education and other features that can be used to project future movement, especially for the realisation of the volume and resulting from the eviction of the population in the last ten years, the decline of fertility and the accelerated ageing of the population, the social phenomena that most directly affect changes in our Serbia's demographic potential. As our President Aleksandar Vukic says, we are free of new factories, roads, hospitals and schools if our children are not born and if our population is getting smaller from year to year. For this very reason, our government and President Aleksandar Vukic are taking every possible step to improve Serbia's demographic image. More than 600 babies were born last year than in 2018, as a result of the demographic measures already taken, but they do not care. Other measures are being taken, and all in order to give birth to our children as much as possible and to help families with two or more children financially. It is precisely the results of the 2021 census that will be used to create and monitor the realisation of our government's strategic objectives, and demographic policy is one of them to generate indicators that are significant for assessing the effectiveness of the measures taken, both at national and local level. Data obtained by the census are relevant for the implementation of certain laws in the area of the exercise of the rights of national minorities, but also for defining measures to improve the position of sensitive groups of populations and to reduce social exclusion. Also, the list provides data for the needs of international institutions and organisations such as the UN, Eurostat, UNESCO. The 2021 census will be financed by the 51% budget, while 49% will be financed from the European Commission. Hoping that the number of citizens of Serbia will grow from day to day, as this Serbia deserves it, in the voting day, I will support the bill's proposal, as well as all draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69688	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69689	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, to remind me, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, as well as the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 in Article 3, has been approved by the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe for a project to build the University Children's Clinic of Tirshova of 54m euros. As we had the chance to hear, Tirshaw University Hospital is an object from before World War II and is intended for the treatment and care of children. It's been renovated twice in the '60s and '90s. One of the main problems for the functioning of the present hospital is the lack of spatial capacity, outdated and inefficient heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, poorer fire protection, outdated and inefficient heating, too many patients and parents or guardians located in inadequate rooms and too few rooms, so that all of this has contributed to the requirement to build a new building and to remove the mentioned shortcomings. The new Tirshaw 2 children's clinic will be built on Deligrad Street. It will be a completely new facility built by the reputation of the most modern hospitals in Europe and the world. The hospital will have over 30,000 m2, rooms will be single and double. The clinic will be fully equipped and will meet all the most modern treatment and care standards with the most modern equipment. Namely, the idea of a new Tirsh 2 children's clinic was started four years ago, and the country's president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar, Government of the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade Mayor Dr. Radojicic, as well as doctors and staff of Tirsh, worked together, so we will have a truly top hospital for generations to come. The state of health is viewed in one country. We want better conditions for our children. The deadline for Tirshaw 2 is the end of 2022. We will have a brand-new hospital said once at the time by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Today, we are talking about the draft law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a project loan for the construction of a new Tirshova 2 university clinic in Belgrade. In this way we are one step closer to realising this complex project than immeasurable importance for all of us, for our little people, for our citizens. Construction of the Tirshova University Hospital 2 but until now, what has been done in the health care system, dramatically changes the picture of Serbian health care. This changes the standard of living of people, all of our citizens, who need help, treatment and healthcare and needy and necessary. From the country which had a convincing worst score in 2014 according to the results of the European Health Consumer Index ENCI, in 2012, our health system did not even meet the criteria for evaluation within the ENCI, and today we are in front of 14 EU countries under the same conditions. But we want to be even better, move forward and enter Europe's top 10 in a few years. This would mean a lot for further progress in the standard of living, for easier age and carefree childhood. As we see our health care in the future, Minister Loncar said, I quote: "Our vision of the health system is crystal clear. We want a stable, efficient and sustainable health system, a system whose services are quality and accessible to all citizens." The end of the quote. As a longtime Serbian health care worker, I support this vision by Minister Loncar. In 2020, Serbian health care will record the improvement of the work of health homes that pass into the jurisdiction of the state, the continuation of the modernisation of health infrastructure and equipment and the employment of the best healthcare professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69690	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69691	Thank you, Chairman. One of the laws we are discussing now is the Census, Households and Apartments Act 2021, which should regulate the preparation, organisation and implementation of the list in 2021. The 2021 census will implement all EU and regional countries, except BiH, for certain reasons, and according to advice, instructions and recommendations from Eurostat, i.e. EU statistics offices, tasked with processing, publishing statistics at EU level. This list should show, as usual, how many of us there are, how many people there are, what age structure, gender, education, national, and even religious determination, where we are and how we live, how we are inhabited, displaced, etc. The list should last 30 days. The previous list lasted 15 days. It will be done with help, unlike the previous list, with the help of a laptop, and not so far with paper questionnaires. There will be about 15,000 censusors, 36 thousand were hired earlier. Citizens of Serbia with residence or residence in the Republic of Serbia will be covered, regardless of whether they are present at their place of residence or are temporarily staying elsewhere in Serbia or abroad. Even constantly populated foreigners and those who are granted temporary stay in Serbia, etc. will be listed. The critical moment of the census, i.e. The date, the moment to be measured is midnight, March 31st, 2021. The costs planned are around 29.3m euros, of which 15.1m euros will be from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the rest from the EU fund, i.e. The European Commission, about 14.2m euros. I said at the beginning that the list was carried out according to Eurostat recommendations and instructions, i.e. Statistics offices established in the EU in 1953. Its main task is to process and publish parallel statistics at EU level. After completing the census, households and dwellings in 2021, our Republic Statistics Office will analyse the results of the census as an authorised statistical body at country level, and will then forward them to Eurostat. The same will be done by all EU countries and regions, I said, except Bosnia and Herzegovina, which planned to complete the census in 2023. Eurostat will systematicise, synthesize, compare and publish them in the form of printed and electronic publications, titled "Europe in Numbers". In Eurostat, data on general statistics, economy and finance, demographics and social conditions, industry, trade and services, agriculture, fisheries, external trade, transport, environment, energy, science and technology are regularly monitored and analysed. The analyses and projections that Eurostat is doing are published and used by the EU institutions to create and implement common policies. In addition to EU Member States, Eurostat also covers its analyses with European Economic Area countries and particularly countries that are also Serbia's candidates for EU membership, and closely co-operates with international organisations, such as the United Nations, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, etc. In the end, I will say that the SNS, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, is very important for Serbia to be part of the EU on its way to progress and in this area. It's important for us to be part of a developed and orderly world, and that everything we do is planned and based on serious analysis and evaluation. That's why we're going to adopt this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69692	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69693	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, the realisation of infrastructure projects leads to the progress of the entire economy, contributing to a more even regional development of the country. That is why I find it extremely important that the Treaty on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey is in the area of infrastructure projects and that the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Turkish banks "Zirat" and "Deniz" be confirmed. This contract involves two very important projects of reconstruction and road construction, namely: the state road Novi Pazar-Tutin, the construction of the highway Sremska Raca - Kuzmin and bridge across the Sava River and the construction of the project for the section of the Požega-Cotroman road. That is why the implementation of these projects will make a significant contribution to GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of domestic construction industries and employment growth, strengthening labour markets and improving living standards. They've been built and highway networks are being built. Serbia is building, growing and connecting. Rural environments are connected. With new roads, nothing new infrastructure, which contributes most to the development of the economy. Areas with developed infrastructure and road network are more attractive for foreign investors, factory construction, job creation for the local population. All this encourages greater employment of domestic production and service capacities, which opens up additional opportunities for local self-government to realise different development projects. Also, I believe that the loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the project to build a new University Children's Clinic Tirshova 2 in Belgrade is of paramount importance. Finally, after almost 50 years of waiting, we will get the most modernly equipped hospital, a place to treat the most difficult children's patients from Serbia and the region. This year, the construction of a hospital that will extend to more than 30 thousand square metres and will have all the conditions for treating patients with the most severe diagnosis. The existing building of Tirshova was built in 1940 and all the money that has been invested for years in the restoration of facades, upgrades and renovations is unfortunately not enough. The biggest problem is the overload of the building. That's why it's important that Tirshaw's 2 is a whole new concept of treatment, where most patients should receive a daily hospital. It will have a direct connection with the largest maternity centre of Serbia, so newborn babies who are urgently in need of care will be able to quickly treat or operate. Realising these projects will solve decades of problems and allow for easier treatment of our children, which is Serbia's greatest interest. I must stress that the state has defined more than 11 billion dinars for the reconstruction of health facilities in 2020. Work is under way on the reconstruction of 19 health facilities, whose contract value is 10 billion and 300 million dinars. In addition to Tirsova 2, projects for the reconstruction of the Institute for Mother and Child in Belgrade were planned for 2020, the continuation of works at the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, whose estimated value is 34m euros and the recovery of the existing Infectious Clinic. A billion euros will be invested in rebuilding and equiping health institutions, which are due to be completed in the next four years. The project covers about 100 institutions, ranging from health homes to clinical centres in all parts of Serbia. If institutions are weak and the government is inefficient, as it was until 2012, then any planning will remain a promise. That's what we could see and feel on our own skin. This was left to us by the Democratic Party in Serbia. Today, however, the situation is very different. These projects represent the success of this government, which openly and directly shows that it works for its people, that in every way it tries to correct the huge mistakes made in the near past and enables quick economic recovery and development, giving us a easier and better life. Until recently, we've had unsettled public finances and huge debts, and today we're paying back our debt to the people, increasing wages and pensions. We are witnessing reforms that lead to major changes in our lives, because this government has shown above all that Serbia can live, develop, that it should become a country where children will be born and remain alive, work and plan the future in its country. We see that through this government's policy initiatives are being implemented and the dialogue on economic policies is being promoted, international co-operation in the areas of infrastructure, trade, finance and attracting significant resources and resources, including the private sector, and all in order to promote infrastructure development as the basis of long-term sustainable growth. Today we're not thinking about survival, we're thinking about progress. Serbia is more economically powerful than ever. It has growth, lowers public debt, reduces unemployment from year to year. I'll remind the citizens that up until a few years ago we had an unemployment rate of almost 26%, and today it's only 9.4%. The country's economic progress depends on the government's determination and ability to implement essential reforms, and the Serbian government has also shown determination and responsibility to its citizens. All of these are indicators of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and an increase in financial stability, all thanks to the seriousness and great commitment of the government headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. I congratulate you on all the results you've achieved, the effort and the work. I thank you for your concern and tolerance, for your patience and wisdom, and I wish you many more success, because only so can Serbia really go forward and our children can plan a future in their country the only and most beautiful Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69694	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69695	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, Mr. Minister Mali with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I support this set of laws in the area of finance. Indeed, as the finance minister said, they will contribute to the further accelerated modernisation of our country by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of MPs in this high house, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Dear Mr. Finance Minister, and these laws will contribute to the flow, as you have pointed out, goods, people and capital, which contributes to peace and stability, i.e. the pedagogy of peace not only in the region, but also beyond, for which our president, SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are being held. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the peoples, the stability of the country and the region also contributes to the plan, i.e. the economic and social development strategy from 2020 to 2025, promoted by our President of the Republic, when 900 billion euros will be invested in the infrastructure. There was a lot of talk about it yesterday in this high house, and my smallness has no intention of talking about it. Allow me, Mr. Minister and Mr. Chairman, Mr. Arsic, to say two words about our political opponents. What about them? Here's one of them, Bosko Obradovic, called, otherwise, my name is goofy, to explain to the citizens why. Because they keep asking me why he's talking. I say -- he's a professor of Serbian language and literature, and he invented the eighth fall of glum. Dear citizens, is it true that Bosko Obradovic raided the RIK and attacked a member of the RIK? Is it true or not? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic raided the municipality of Pećinci? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic attacked the chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, Dr Aleksandr Martinovic? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic broke into the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Maja Gojkovic? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic broke into a police station in Guca? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic committed an attack on journalist "Pinka"? Is it true he made an attempt at breaking into REM? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic requested the shooting of the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic made an attempt to break into the Serbian presidency building? Is it true he asked the Serbian Army to carry out a coup? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic broke into the building with a RTS saw and asked to take over the program? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic broke into the building of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac municipality, where the guard kicked him out of the building? Is it true he threatened President Wolfie with a slap? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic said on 19.11. 2019, quote – Vukic must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States in order to survive? That's why now is the right time to intensify the attacks on him from all weapons. Is it true or not? Is it true, gentlemen of the People's MPs, that in October 2017 Bosko Obradovic introduced a stone, which my colleague Rističevic calls a kukusic stone, into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which he said with KIM and thus humiliated all citizens, especially Serbs at KIM? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic tried to break into the Belgrade City Assembly building in March 2019? Is it true that Bosko Obradovic fell into RTS in March 2019 and wanted to be involved in the direct transmission of RTS? Is it true that in March 2019, along with Dragan Gilas, it is a man, Dragan Djilas, whom I call, when he entered politics, that he was ordinary naked, and now the tycoon with 619m euros, along with him, along with Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and bandits, is outside the Serbian presidency building? Is it true that in 2019, Bosko Obradovic opened the doors of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the Serbian flag, watch out, and spears? That's what you've been watching, respected citizens. Is it true that Bosko Obradovic, on the 27th of December 2019, entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, attacked Mr Martinovic and committed chaos in this high House? Is it true or not, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that Bosko Obradovic carried out Professor Micunovic's most ground floor manner, whom he called a common communist and false patriarch? I will finish, Professor Micunovic said, quote – I am not interested in a political hooligan who is trying to introduce tabloid prostitution into our political life, finished quote. I wouldn't talk about the next one if I left it to my colleagues, but let me tell you about one thing, and that's Professor Dr. Janko Vesenovic, a resident. Why the rent thief? Because he usurped the apartment of Milica Badže, otherwise refugees, 28 years old, from Obrovec, Kurjaković Street and behold the wonders of yours, Mr Arsic and the presidents of the National Assembly and all the MPs returned that apartment to Milici Bajji's calling for us, but he got even bigger. Otherwise, this professor, Dr. Janko Veselinovic, called a tenant, says this – after the boycott, ask for a new election to be called, if not a direct turn by the military and the police to the side of the protesters and opponents of the regime, finished quote, 11.9. 2019. Is it true, Mr. Veselinovic, or isn't it? This is not what I say about the apartment, but says "Free Split Dalmatia" since 11.12.2014. Finally, honourable MPs, Vice President Arsic, I will now ask the questions, 10, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to us, to the MPs, whether what I say is true or not. Who first implemented a financial consolidation from the president of the Republic of Serbia? Of course Alexander's a wolf. Who first marked NATO aggression on our country by the president of the state? Answer, ladies and gentlemen. Of course Alexander's a wolf. Who was the first of the presidents of the Republic of Serbia to say no to NATO? Answer the political opponents, you who escaped and those who are now looking out of your comfortable rooms? Who said the first of the presidents of the Republic of Serbia - I will not impose sanctions on Russia? Answer, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you and our political opponents, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know this very well? Who first told the West -- you won't ban us from working with friendly China, from the president of the states? Answer our opponents and those who are there and those who are not, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it very well. Who, first after our country's criminal bombing, raised Serbia's army to an envious level from the president of the state? Answer Mr. Gilasu, respond to Bosko Obradovic, respond to Vuke Jeremic and the rest of the Alliance for Serbia? And, look, wonders, who's the first of the presidents of the state, be careful, tell us what we need the Army for? Who do you think said it first? Well, Boris Tadic. You want a date? I don't want the date talking to leave time. Who took back the 166th of Miroslav's Gospel after 175 years? Put it back where it belonged. Who's first? Alexander Wolfie. Who was the first of the presidents of the state to bring Russian President Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin into our country? Who first brought the president, us friendly China into our country from the president of the state? The honourable MPs, in the end, unlike them, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is a major Serbian reformer, a great Serbian statesman and above all, a patriot who will never, ever, work against the interests of the Serbian people and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You gentlemen of one of the five million, who have claimed to date that you are not a political organisation, and my associates, the MPs of the SNS, have always claimed that you are a political organisation, today you have confirmed, Mr Radonic, Mr Jovo Bakic, Mr Zecu, whom I respect, apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And, finally, do not defend gentlemen from the political organisation "One of the Five Million", respected some professors at that university from us, defend them from themselves within "One of the Five Million". The Serbian Progressive Party, Mr. Minister, will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69696	The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69697	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, information on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is on the agenda today. I would like to point out that agriculture plays a very important role in the development, economic development of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to commend, of course, the 2020 budget, which sets out 54 billion dinars for agriculture. Of those 54 billion dinars for agriculture, I want to point out that 37.1 billion dinars are scheduled for subsidies. If we compare the data from 2012, you will see when in power, of course, there were people who primarily thought about their own wealth, people who didn't think about farmers, students, doctors, nurses, etc. At that time, the agricultural budget, i.e. the subsidies in agriculture, amounted to 29.5 billion dinars. I am pleased, of course, that after fiscal consolidation and after a responsible economic policy, agriculture has received these funds in the budget, which will, of course, be able to deploy to subsidies and support. What is somewhere is the goal of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry is to encourage young couples, to invest in quality throats in livestock, to encourage organic production, to encourage winemakers, etc. To return to the agreement now, because it is this responsible policy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the resolution ministry that led to this agreement being reached, that is to say, signed on 9 December 2019 and that this agreement will help and improve agriculture itself and that its name itself shows that it is an improvement of competitiveness in the Republic of Serbia. The project itself will last five years until 31.12.2024. What is the main objective of the project itself is to help the government of the Republic of Serbia, to help invest instead of subsidise. What's the point of investing? Investment in small and medium-sized agricultural and food producers. These funds will, of course, help, and I hope that my colleague, Milija Miletic, will be grateful because it will also help rural areas, or that it will help agricultural producers who are in the south and southeast, and of course, in every debate, it will simply have to be made possible by these rural areas, less developed areas, by some incentive means. This particular project will help. It means that these people living in these areas somewhere are motivated to stay in these areas and invest in agriculture itself. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, I would like to say that it is intended to consist of three parts, that first part provides for improving production and business capacities, small and medium-sized agricultural and food producers, building capacity through advisory services, i.e. business and financial planning through the development of certain business plans, and that this first part of the project, for it, will provide about 34.5m euros. Within this first part, there are two components. As for the first component of 3.7m euros, this is foreseen to strengthen advisory services. formulating these business plans, as well as financial support from public and of course private sources. The second component of 30.8m euros is planned for production investments through grants. There is some accent important enough to realize that these grants will be 50%. It means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry had in mind and that this particular project is located somewhere between the IPARD and the national incentive funds. So, it's going to be more flexible, and what it's going to provide to farmers is exactly that 50% of the grant and that they're going to be able to take those funds right away, and they won't have to wait a year, a year and a half for a refund, and that's exactly what I want to commend. As far as the third part of the loan is concerned, it is 2.1m euros and is related to project management, monitoring and evaluation. As far as these financial terms are concerned, I would like to say that the withdrawal of the loan will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement. The maturity will be 12 years, including a three-year period. the access fee will be 0.25% on the total principal, and the interest rate will be paid, i.e. the borrower will pay the interest rate of half-year, i.e. 15 May and 15 November. When we look at this whole agreement, I am glad to point out that after 10 years, co-operation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been established, that small and medium-sized agricultural food producers, rural areas of course, and that 50% of the funds are being obtained irrevocably. The first call will be issued in September 2020, and the call will be twice a year from 2021 to 2024, i.e. in March and September of the month. Another thing I would like to praise, as someone who is a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, is that it is also envisaged to monitor the impact on environmental protection and will not be financed precisely by those projects that have a high risk, i.e. a high level of harmfulness. At the very end of my presentation, I would also refer to the national investment plan "Serbia 2025", which will not only bring us benefits in terms of increasing the average salary and average pensions, but also the economy will feel, or agriculture will feel the benefit. Agriculture has been incorporated into this national investment plan presented by our president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and it is planned that for the agricultural infrastructure, 300m euros, which will be deployed in such a way that 86m euros, 70m euros, will be given for irrigation, to build what is very important for areas that are urban, for the construction of anti-urban automated Launchers 10m euros, subsidies for the purchase of a tractor for agriculture of 50m euros. This national investment plan speaks enough about responsible policy, responsible and host policy and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president, Mr Alexander Vukic. So it shows that the accent was placed on every citizen, and that the accent was put on Serbia's own growth and development. It is one responsible political programme, unlike some of the political programmes we see daily, which are full of threats, target, insults and so on. There are various opposition leaders who speak that language. I would point out, since we're talking about agriculture, that one of these opposition leaders, Miroslav Aleksic, spits every day around the country, has a variety of affairs every day, and when he was supposed to take the subsidized funds from the tractor farm, he didn't take off, then he didn't mind the state, and then he wanted to use the funds. So, I think this is one more time to repeat, responsible policy, a policy that has its own future. I hope that citizens in the elections will recognise this responsible work, and of course I will speak positively of this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69698	Right on line, MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69699	Thank you. I'm really pleased to say a few more things that my colleague Jeftic was now talking about. Dear Ministers, the ministry you run is really the Ministry that runs a responsible policy regarding all of us living in Serbia, for all local self-government, for local budgets. But this part, this loan that we're talking about right now, that's another thing for our agricultural producers, for our agriculture, and I would ask you, if there's a possibility that in some future period, whether now or after the elections or perhaps before the elections, that within these 45m euros that are intended to help agriculture, a higher percentage of the funds will be allocated within these funds. It is that we now have the exact qualifications for what is given and how much is given, but it would be good if municipalities that are undeveloped, demographically threatened, devastated, if these municipalities get a higher percentage of the resources, that in these municipalities we can provide subsidies for our agricultural producers, for our farmers, to get to them and that they normally stay there to live. I think investing in small areas, in agriculture, investing in a healthy environment, is an investment in the future of our country of Serbia. I am sure that in the coming period we will continue to give funds, to help young people living in the country, living from the village, women staying in the country, living in those environments that are in a difficult situation, but on the other hand, we have to have the opportunity to stand out more, to make it a percentage more for every newborn child living in the territory of the devastated, demographically threatened municipalities, that every woman who remains there has more help, and normally that will produce results. The demographic image of Serbia is such, we can influence it in this way, stimulatingly and I'm sure it will produce results. Once again, I am really pleased to have colleagues in the congregation who think about agriculture. counterpart Jeftic is a professional person, who knows and treasures to those students she teaches, these students are the future of our Serbia, because they have whom to learn from.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69700	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69701	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the loan Serbia is taking from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the construction of the Tirshova 2 Children's Clinic in Belgrade. The law on the Republic of Serbia's budget approved a 54m-euro debt to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The total value of building a children's clinic is estimated at 75m euros, including the estimated value of the land on which the clinic will be built. The 54m loan will cover more than 70% of the project's value, and the missing funds will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for loan conditions, the Republic of Serbia has the possibility to choose a fixed or variable interest rate when withdrawing the first tranche and the interest rate will later apply during the repayment period. We have a 20-year-old loan option. We do not have a penalty on undrawn funds, and the deadline for these funds to be used is late December 2023 when it is realistic and planned for this project to be completed by the Tirshova 2 Clinic. Tirshaw Children's Clinic was built in 1940. It has been renovated on several occasions, however, it is necessary to build a new clinic because the existing lack of spatial capacity and when it comes to operating rooms, which are too small and when it comes to hospital facilities, i.e. hospital beds, also the ventilation system, is outdated, against fire protection is outdated. Construction of Tirshova 2 starts in the spring itself, it will be a clinic according to the most modern European standards, a clinic that will be equipped in the most modern way and will extend to more than 30,000 square metres. I just want to say a little bit in the end about another loan that's on the agenda today. It is a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. From the loan, Serbia will buy 18 new electric sets according to European standards. I just want to remind the citizens that, between 2015 and 2019, a 560km rail has been reconstructed, that the reconstruction works are still 380 kilometers away, that there are 48 new trains on our tracks, that we have bought 16 locomotives for freight trains. Now, with these 18 new trains we're going to buy, there's going to be 66 new trains on our train. Is that enough, are we satisfied with that? It is not and we are not satisfied, but every day Serbia becomes a more modern country one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69702	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69703	Thank you. I would refer to the draft loan law between the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, for a project loan for the construction of the new University Children's Children's Kleek Tirshova 2 in Belgrade. Today, most of all, there were words about this agreement, which shows that we are all aware of how important it is to all of us, to our country, in fact. A 54m-euro loan has been planned to build Tirshova 2 and the bank's financial participation accounts for 72% of the value of this project, with a total value of 75m euros. This gap to full value will be provided from other sources of budgetary, credit or donor resources. I wouldn't take this as a borrowing or a loan, but as an investment, as a single investment in the future of all of us, and therefore, of course, our country. Construction of an existing building began in 1936, according to King Petar II Karadjordjevic, was completed in 1940. It was later built, renovated in the '60s, '90s. However, Tirshova is not an ordinary clinic, it has become a symbol of the treatment of children and there is no man who has not only in Serbia, but also in the whole region has not heard of this clinic, but of the top European and world experts that it has produced for decades. Doctors and medical staff have been working in very difficult conditions for decades, but even then they achieve exceptional results, and doctors are the last ones, I can say for decades with their own contacts, by pawning donations from different sources and by many governments before 2012 they tried to build "Tirshaw 2" there was even a project, but until today it was completely unsuccessful. The basic reason for building "Tirshaw 2" is primarily a lack of, of course, accommodation facilities for patients, but also outdated systems which are for heating, ventilation, air conditioning, poor fire protection, outdated heating, etc. However, regardless of all of this, all of these conditions that I stated, between 2015 and 2018, the existing children's clinic had over 170,000 medical consultations and nearly 75,000 days of hospitalisation in hospital units. I also talked to the mothers of children who were cured of the most severe diseases in Tirshova, and I heard the words of praise for a very human relationship that doctors have, not only for patients, but also for parents who really help them to cope with such a difficult life situation. The new hospital will be built according to the world's state-of-the-art standards, which will not only enable patients, but also provide doctors with much better working conditions and will allow a completely new approach to treating children and conditions such as their peers in the most developed countries of the world. "Tirshaw 2" will have over 30,000 square meters and will be located on Deligrad Street, but the most important thing is that it will be well connected to the maternity ward, to the gynaecology and obstetrics clinic KCS, because in this way newborn babies who are urgently in need of care will be able to quickly, easily and safely be transported to the clinic, where even the most difficult complications can be treated immediately and operated. Construction "Tirshove 2" is just one and the most important maybe project in the field of health, as this allows Serbia's children the same right to be treated, i.e. the availability of treatment. Speaking of health institutions, I must mention that the construction of KC in Nis has been completed, that the construction of a new KC Serbia building is under way, then the reconstruction of KC Vojvodina, KC Kragujevac, is also planned. The state of Serbia allocates huge funds that can be measured in billions of euros to improve the conditions for treatment in Serbia. It's never been so much invested in health care before, but not just the facilities I mentioned, but also the training of doctors, the treatment of rare diseases, the supply of drugs. In addition to increasing salaries to doctors and nurses, it is equally important to provide adequate working conditions, because that is the only way we can keep them from staying and working, living in Serbia. I am proud to vote in favour of this agreement, because after 100 years we will start building a children's clinic "Tirshaw 2". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-01-28-0.u69704	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Since it no longer appears, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 14 to 20 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 64 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Traffic Infrastructure with Associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
