ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71588	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 25th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session today by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PURPOSE OF REFERENCE IN THE CASTER OF INVESTIGATION AND VODS. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on item 2 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure of fixed and water. Does National MP Katarina Rakic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71589	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have a truly great honor and pleasure to have this bill on the agenda of today's session. I can certainly say that it really represents an extremely small step in the way of Serbia's reform, on a path that is managed by our President Aleksandar Vukic with a very wise policy. As I've already mentioned, I'm the legislator of this law. However, I was only part of the group, i.e. part of the team that participated in writing these amendments and the addition of the Law on Immobilization and Waters, and in its proposal, that is, in the whole work on its creation, there was a very large number of experts, particularly from NAED, from the Republic Geodesy Institute, from the Ministry of Construction and Professors of Belgrade University, and I want to thank everyone at this time for my work. I believe that, by passing this law, or these proposals for amending and supplementing the law, we have taken one big step on the road to reforming this system in Serbia. As most of you know, this is a pretty new law. The law on entry into the ‘realty and water’ category was adopted in 2018. He suffered one change in 2019 and this is the second change in order of this law. Although some will now probably say and criticise, why in two years' time we have been making a second amendment to this law, I just want to say that even the moment we first passed this law, in 2018, we were aware of it, and then we stressed that we would change, adapt and bring about changes that will certainly improve this law in the future, and all in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, as well as the building ministers of Mrs. Zorani Mihajlovic, for recognising the quality of these amendments and additions and putting them in today's agenda, and later on, we will certainly include these changes in the text of the law itself. I want once again, in line with all that I have said, to mention, that is to say, the legislative system in Serbia has made enormous progress, and for the first time in Serbia, we have this to monitor the effects of the laws, that is to say, and to do so and to change, so that these changes today are exactly in line with this. As far as the amendments and additions to the laws that I am proposing today, the Law on Immobilization of Immobilities and Waters are concerned, I can first and foremost mention three major changes. These changes aim, first of all, to speed up the very delivery of solutions from the catastrophe of immovableity. Then, they aim to speed up the immovableity of the cadastre itself. Third and very important changes, these amendments and additions to the Law suggest compliance with other laws concerning the catastra of immovableity, which are, above all, the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects. As I said at first, one of the very important changes is the delivery of solutions. You know, you've probably all met up with the problems of delivery, i.e. the reception of the cataster solution, and I'm going to explain to those who haven't been in a position or those who might not know what it looks like in Serbia today, here's what we want to change. Delivery of solutions by all authorities, all authorities in Serbia are carried out under the General Administrative Procedure Act, more specifically under Article 72, where it is prescribed that the Authority delivers a solution in three ways - through its couriers, through a postal operator or by electronic means. Furthermore, this same law prescribes Article 75, and the way in which this solution is delivered itself, and he says that the postal operator, since we are now talking about the solutions made by a cadastre, or by a cadastre, is usually about the fact that the cadastre sends mail, the post office delivers a solution to the citizens, or the parties in the process, and now, unless the postman finds the party at home, he leaves a notice that he can take over his solution in the mail and in the next 24 hours. Citizens often do not arrive within 24 hours to raise their solution in the post office, and then it happens that its solution is returning to the cadastre. That's where the biggest problem arises. The way the mail-to-catastra solutions take some time and from seven to ten days, and we have a situation where citizens have been informed that their solution is over, they go to the post office of their solution, they see that they are late, they go to the Catastre, and there they see that their solutions are gone, and then they go astray, they seek their solution. Some even give up taking the general decision. At that time, the catastre is obliged to publish the solution on the electronic floor for the next eight days, and it becomes legal after eight days. I'm not saying this like a lonely case. The whole process I have now explained is happening even in 90% of cases in Serbia. So, most of the citizens take their solution back to the catastro, and that's after they've done a great search for it. I hope you understand what I'm talking about, even though it's a very complicated procedure. I believe that the most important change today is the delivery of the solution itself. Namely, these amendments and additions to the Law on Immobilization in the Immobility Catastrophe, as the delivery itself, we propose the next solution. In the future catastra solution will be delivered in three ways. The first way is in an electronic mailbox. So, all those who have an electronic mailbox, the moment the solution is made, they'll be sent to an electronic mailbox. Then, what is very important is that all the solutions that will be made in the cataster at the same time after the signing will be published on the RGZ site, which means that those who have submitted an application for the entry of immovableity or for any solution to any of their objects in the cadastre will be able to search the items according to the number of cases and simply have insight when their solution will be completed. When their solution is announced on the site, it starts to run from 30 days to justice. I say, just because that solution will be published on the site, they will be able to have insight into it and possibly file a complaint for the solution itself. Also, this law provides for only a solution to be delivered through a postal operator. But here, too, we planned to make a big change. If the mailman does not find a party at the address this time and fails to deliver a solution immediately upon arrival, he leaves a notice that he will be able to download his solution in the post office within the next 15 days. So, unlike the current 24 hours, where we practically forced the parties, Serbian citizens, to run in the mail for their own solution, we now have a 15-day deadline for citizens to go to the post and take over their solution. Of course, I think this is a good thing because we all know that the mail in Serbia today has even in every little bigger village and it is certainly much easier for citizens to go to their post office than to go for solutions that may have been taken in front of the monasteries and in some other cities around Serbia. We think something like this will really help the citizens. However, we have also foreseen the situation in this law, and what will happen if the citizens are not here in 15 days and fail to take their decision in the next 15 days. Of course, the same goes back to the cadastre and will take it over to the cataster, but as I said at first, a period of lawfulness runs on the day the solution was announced and published on the RGZ site, that is, on the very first day that the solution was made. I sincerely hope and sincerely believe that if the reforms in Serbia continue to run this course that we will all be able to really be able to one day all of what we need to solve in a catastrus that we will be able to solve from home, that we will be able to solve from our computer, that Katastar as an institution does not exist and that Kastastar as a counter and does not exist, because it should actually represent one register, one help in Serbia where we will implement our solutions, and now unfortunately there was a situation for Kastastar in Serbia to book and implement our solutions for longer than it was necessary for some authority to just make a solution and bring it. So for the time being, Catastre in Serbia is a huge stumbling block, not only for us, but also for those who work there. But personally, as far as the number of people employed in Katastra is concerned, I really don't think that this number is big, especially now that Katastar isn't fully digitized, and when we really have a lot to go there for a lot of objects and a lot of things to do. Here, I will point out to you that in all Serbia, it means in all the cathedrals in Serbia, and you know that every municipality must have a cadastre, if not in its headquarters must have persons who work, who are in charge of a certain municipality. So there are 2,955 people working in the catastro right now. So we have nearly 7.5 million people in Serbia who are not full of 3,000 employees in the catastro. And this is not the final number of these 2,955 employees in all of Serbia in Katastra, as many as 168 are working for a certain time, and 437 are working on a contract for temporary and occasional jobs. So, in all of Serbia, we have just over 2,500 employees in Catastro. I personally think that this number is very, very small and then we have to work on it or to increase the number of employees in Catastra or to make as many of the jobs that Katastar will do digitized. When I mention employees in Katastra, I cannot help but mention the leadership of the RGZ, headed by Director Borko Draskovic, who is really bravely struggling with all the problems that Katastar faces. And on the other hand, he is extremely willing to accept all the changes we propose to him to improve the work of Katra. I really think it's easy to be a good director in a well-organized company, but being a good director in a system like RGZ, like Katastar, is really not a bit easy. And that is why I really want to congratulate once again on the work of the director, Borko Draskovic. As for the other amendments made by this bill, I would still refer to the changes concerning the entry of the notes. In these changes, we introduce that some remarks will also be made through the official route. So, the parties won't even have to apply, they won't even have to raise a solution to a certain kind of remark, they won't have to pay a fee. But another kind of notation here is detailed and clearly precise, and that is the observation of those who have a slow spot on a particular plot. More specifically, whose notes will be recorded as notes. I would like to stress this in particular because in the previous period we have had a lot of abuses based on the notes of the dispute. Practically, I can say freely that the 2009 law simply left the space that we had, I can freely call them professional applicants, people who filed claims for certain land on certain objects, and if they had no rights or disputes that would later end, they would have no outcome in their favour. The citizens have been complaining more and more, and I'll explain to you what it looked like. Let's just say, if someone wants to sell their house, we had these professional applicants, they go, they file a dispute, Katastar didn't go into it by the 2009 law, they don't file a dispute, they sign up as a note, and of course no one will buy a house that is slow, a note or any kind of burden. It also happened on certain plots. So we have an investor who, say, wants to take credit to the bank or he's already taken credit with the bank. We have professional applicants who file a lawsuit on his plot and, of course, the bank on the land on which there is a note, or on which there is a dispute, will not approve. And if she's already approved it and if there's a slow record, of course the bank is withdrawing its funds and, of course, the citizens have been in serious trouble. This situation was put on the path of adoption of authentic interpretation in May, 15 May 2017 when we clearly identified who the land rightsholders were and whose disputes Katastar recorded as a note. So, no one can come and sign up on your plot, run a dispute, and you don't know for yourself that someone on your plot has an open dispute. So this kind of observation really stops something that has now been an extremely bad practice in Serbia. Also, I will mention only one more amendment that is within these amendments and additions to the law, which is as I have already said to comply with other laws concerning the catastra of immovableity, which is that Katastar will no longer be able to register the solution to the legislation of the facility unless it contains an emborate of geodetic works or if the elaborate is not in conformity with the law. This elaborate under the Law on Legalisation, that is, under the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, is indeed an extremely important part of the legal solution. So far, Katastar has no obligation to check such a thing, but we have seen that this is a really big problem, and this proposal to amend and supplement the law really makes it mandatory for the employees of Katastra before entering the facility's legislation have to check that the embossed geodetic works have been done in accordance with the law. We had a question as to whether this kind of change would now contribute to increasing the size of work for the employees in Katastra? The answer is no. They will not be increased for the simple reason that they have done so before. In any case, each solution, or all of the documentation necessary for enrollment, will only be required to determine whether there is an embodies of geodetic works in the whole solution. If it does not exist, it will stop the entire process of books and instruct the citizens to bring what they lack and bring. Here, I have tried to briefly explain what these are the most significant amendments and additions to the draft law that is on the agenda today, although it is short by volume, so there are 13 members, I believe that the amendments and additions proposed by it will indeed be something that will help many Serbian citizens to ease their daily obligations. For that very reason, I invite you to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71590	I would like to thank the promoter, MP Katarina Rakic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? If there are no reports, we have to wait. There is. The word has an authorised representative, or authorised representative of the SDPS, the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71591	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, we have before us today the amendments and additions to the Law on the registration procedure of immovable property and water, which aim to remove certain difficulties that have arisen in the implementation of the law adopted on 8 June 2018. It is the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the cataster of immovableity and waterways, with the aim of increasing the efficiency and up-to-date of the cataster of immovableity. This law should allow the whole process of enrollment of assets to end with notaries, then increase the legal certainty of property owners, as well as a faster and more efficient accounting of property taxes and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. On 28 May 2018, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a new Law on the registration procedure of the Immobilities and Waters in an emergency procedure for providing conditions, notably the introduction of information technologies, which will speed up and shorten the registration procedure in the immovableity cadasar, which will have a positive effect on improving the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's ranking of business conditions. On the other hand, the reasons for the adoption of the law, which until the adoption was part of the Law on Stateway and Cataster, are contained in the need, first of all, to increase the efficiency and urgency of the building blocks. By introducing information technologies, by prescribing obligations for courts and public notaries, public enforcement bodies, public administration bodies and other bodies and organisations established under their law, have made decisions, i.e. to draw up and confirm the documents representing the legal basis for enrolment in the cadastre, to deliver the same supplies to the immovable cadastre service in order to record changes in the cadasar. The second extremely important reason is to simplify and speed up the procedure of enrollment in the immovableity catalogue, first of all, by prescribing the obligation for those entities to deliver to the services of decision-making, i.e. documents, which are drawn up or confirmed for the purpose of enrolment in a cadastre, by prescribing shorter deadlines for the service to be conducted in the process of enrolment and by prescribing rules that the service does not verify the legality of the public, i.e. public-book documents on the basis of which the enrolment takes place. However, during the implementation of this law, there have been some problems which, above all, have been reflected in the delivery of solutions. Both these amendments and additions of the law are primarily aimed at removing these shortcomings, delivering offices by speeding up delivery, improving the availability of solutions to the parties and increasing legal certainty in relation to the finality of the enrolment. Also, the second problem that has been observed is that the process of enrolling in the immovableity cadasar needs to be accelerated and simplified by simplifying the recording process. And, of course, it is extremely important that this law be brought into line with other laws that are relevant to the work of the Republic Geodesy Institute, which have been passed in the meantime. These are the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on the Law of Objects. The catastra reform is carried out with a view to simplifying the procedure for enrolment in the cataster, and that the parties do not have to come to the service of the real estate catastra, but that all matters relating to enrolment of the right to immovable property end up going to the public register. However, big crowds are now being made in the service rooms, as a large number of citizens are coming to take their own decisions, as they have received notices of the arrival of mail solutions and within 24 hours they have an obligation to take their own solutions. Coming to the catastra service is a new problem, that the post office has not yet returned to the Cataster because of its procedures, and that's where we come into the situation of making crowds because of the search, that the parties can't have insight into their solution, to see what the tax is, to carry out their specific obligations, and yet everything is bound to the maturity. It is therefore necessary that this problem be systematically resolved by amending this law in the way proposed, which will, above all, allow for simpler delivery of the solution and the calculation of deadlines for the finalisation of the solution, because delivery is considered to have been made, first of all, for users of the single electronic mailbox by handing in accordance with the Law on Electronic Administration, and for the other citizens, the delivery of the recommended consignment, with the introduction of a deadline of 30 days from the date of public advertising of the solution as the deadline when delivery will be considered to be carried out. Also, these amendments and additions to the law should provide transparent service treatment, as all solutions will now be published on the Institute's web presentations. It is also significant that the availability of the solution will be made simpler because very simple ways to use the electronic advertising board and the way to search the solution are prescribed and, ultimately, very important, control of the delivery procedure from the central level of the institution and prevent abuse. And if it may appear that the deadline of 30 days from the date of public publication when delivery is considered too long, this legal solution will in practice speed up delivery, as the publication of the solution will move at the very beginning of the delivery process, together with the sending of the recommended consignment, or delivery to an electronic mailbox, while the applicable legislative solution delays the publication at the moment when the service upon return finds that the delivery has failed. For such a solution, it is necessary for the Institute to provide a simple search and on the internet ad board, which is constantly available, which is controlled at the central level. It has been proposed that new amendments and additions to the law be submitted to this problem by an entire member of the law. Article 7 of the Law proposes to add a new Article 40a, which will edit the electronic advertising board of the catastra, given that advertising on the electronic table is essential for speeding up the delivery process and increasing the legal certainty of parties in the process. On the electronic advertising board, catastra will be publicly advertised solutions made in the process of enrolment in the cadastre, but in a way that does not violate the Personal Data Protection Act. The search will be possible by three basics – by an alleged number of solutions, by the name and last name of a party or the name of a legal entity and third way, by a unique home number or company number. It is believed that delivery will be facilitated in this way, as well as insight into solutions unless delivery is made in due time. It is also proposed to prescribe the party's right to make a copy of the delivery of the recommended consignment in the service rooms at its request. Until now, this procedure has been much more complicated. If the delivery of the original solution was not done properly and as planned, of course, the citizens were coming to the catastra service to take over their solution, since the post had not done so in the meantime, it was recommended to make a copy of the solution. For copying the solution, the application was submitted, the tax was paid on that request. The catastra service was obliged to make a copy of the solution. This copy of the solution was re-sent by mail and, of course, you are again in the situation that this sending can be unsuccessful for reasons that are extremely justified. In such a way, the party does not have the possibility to have an insight into the amount of settlement tax, which is very important for the party to be able to carry out its obligation and that the procedure could continue. However, by introducing an electronic advertising table and the possibility of printing a copy of the solution, which will be provided for by a new amendment and supplementation of this law, the procedure will be significantly simplified, but such delivery will not affect delivery deadlines. The proposed changes could have a positive impact, of course, on the area of enrolment of assets estimated at the Duing Business List of the World Bank, given that the handover and one simpler arrangement of the delivery process will speed up the process of enrollment in the cadastre, as the parties will be made more accessible and transparent, and there will be no problem in determining the day when the solution becomes final, which is a prerequisite for taking the next item relating to the same immovableity. Also, one of the major problems seen during the implementation of this law is the problem the law needs to solve. These are certain situations observed in a particular practice, which the solution to the law of objects is not possible to implement in the immobility cataster for the reason that the elaborate of geodetic works, on the basis of which this solution was made, is not made up in accordance with regulations, standards and technical norms, and that there are technical, formal and other obvious shortcomings. The State Prime Minister and the Cataster Act, as well as the sublegal acts, stipulates that, if certain shortcomings are identified in the draft procedure, the law requires the geodetic organisation to remove them within the legal time limit. Thus, this amendment is also necessary and stipulates that the solution to the legislation of the facility will not be implemented in the cataster until all the shortcomings observed in the geodetic work have been resolved previously. It is also necessary to introduce new observations which are relevant for the legal traffic of immovable property, such as the notice of the commission procedure, the observations of the restitution procedure, the Court’s decision to suspend the property temporarily made in accordance with the law governing the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence and the observation of the decision of the competent authority on the removal of objects or works of objects. The notice of a judicial building permit, which is prescribed by law, has lost its meaning since the premise of the building under official duty was introduced, and therefore this remark should be abolished. It is also necessary to extend the possibility of recording and deleting records without making a solution and to situations where the notation refers to a greater number of immovableities or is massed in what is the case with the observation of the commissation process, the notation of cultural goods, as well as the observation of the ban on alienation of an object which is subject to the legislation to be entered on about two million objects. The decision would only be taken in cases of rejection or refusal of registration requirements, i.e. suspension of proceedings. This will significantly relieve the service and give it more time to deal with items that relate to the registration of immovable property and rights on them. The Law on Law-Lawing of Objects provides that the Institute shall establish and keep records of objects which are not entered in the Immobility Catalogue. In view of the fact that the records of facilities not included in the immovableity catalogue, established on the basis of data obtained by air recording, are already being used by the institutions and other authorities of the state administration and local self-government, the records should be an integral part of the geodetic-cataster information system. By connecting these two records with the Register of Real Estates, it will be possible to enroll in the catalogue of the immovableity of the notes, the prohibitions of alienation and for objects in the legal process which are not entered in the cadastre on the cadastral plot on which the facility is built, with the indication of the number of objects in that record. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to speed up the process of enrolling in the cataster of immovableity in the spirit of the reform of the catastra that is implemented in accordance with the law. The harmonisation of this law with the Law on Electronic Administration, the increase of the legal certainty of parties in the process, the registration of changes in the cadastre and the removal of problems identified in the current application of the law are sufficient reasons for SDPS MPs to support amendments and additions to the legislation on the agenda of the session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71592	Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71593	Thank you. I want to thank my colleague for her kind words and for everything she's noticed, as far as the amendments and the addition of the law are concerned. I'd just like to look back on one part that was the subject of a working group discussion when we were passing these amendments and supplementing the law, and that's only 30 days. It may sound now that the deadline is really long, to say the least, but the original proposal was for that deadline to be between 90 and 45 days and then, as a compromise, a 30-day deadline. However, what is important to emphasise is that the deadline begins to run on the day of the decision, that is, on the day of the publication of the solution on the ad board, and if citizens take that solution earlier, or all those who have the right to appeal, can certainly be reduced. The main thing here was to take care of those people who are currently not in the state, who live abroad, because it still takes them some time to get to the ground, to physically come for their own solution. Certainly, this law aims to speed up reforms in Serbia, to make Serbia a better place in the position of Duing Business List of the World Bank, and only once again I want to remind everyone how important changes to the Law on Planning and Construction were, that these changes led to Serbia being in the World Bank's 9th place today, and only five years ago it was in 186th position. I thank you for everything you said, and we hope this law will also contribute to better reforms in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71594	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word from the president of the parliamentary groups, or authorized representatives? The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71595	I thank you, Chairman. In view of the item of the agenda that we are discussing and the actuality of all that is related to this law, the SPS Group will support the law which is today the subject of our debate, i.e. by pointing out some facts and circumstances that may have contributed to the scope of this law in some way, i.e. to standardising some circumstances that are obviously not covered by this law, and would also have great importance in practice, i.e. in the practical application of this law. First of all, it should be pointed out that this law is going qualitatively forward, one step forward, but in terms of the urgency of the proceedings being conducted before the competent services of the stalemate, that by introducing an e-government system, i.e. an e-mail system or electronic communications with the parties, it also contributes to speeding up the process, efficiency of the process and meeting the needs of the citizens. What is good is that this sophisticated way of communication, which so far has not existed, introduces not only into the House of Movement Office, but is one general approach of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to e-Government, in general, which means that we have achieved something that the EU expects from us, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have managed to get closer to EU legislation in some way, through harmonisation of Serbia's legislation. I will in one piece, fellow Members, look at your bill to the provisions that you have proposed when it comes to the observations being made in the Office of the Immobilization Department, so I'm going to ask you with a little attention to commenting together, I hope that this exchange of views will cover these norms. It is specifically the provision of Article 15, as far as I can see, of the proposed law. It is specifically about the observations relating to the entry of certain burdens in respect of certain rights, procedures and, of course, the interest of the party in those proceedings. In particular, here we are talking about observations that are obvious in relation to earlier changes and additions, i.e. earlier drafts of the law, narrowed down. That narrowing down, to be completely open, isn't from yesterday, or it's not in discontinuity. On the contrary, the extent of certain remarks is narrowed in continuity, so I would ask you to accept a well-intentioned suggestion. When it comes to remarks, we are talking about the observations of court proceedings when it comes to property rights to immovableity, when it comes to the futility of the contract, when it comes to the denial of legal actions of debtors, when it comes to certain rights of bond relations, the question now arises -- why is one important, important segment of the notes did not enter here into the body's notes? In particular, when we talk about refuting the legal action of debtors, when it would be translated into a simple folk language, it means that I am suffering damage because some debtor of mine who owes me a certain amount of money has alienated his assets in order to in some way make it impossible for me to obtain the collection of my claim. Why? He's estranged his immovable property, I have no place to charge, that property has gone to the benefit of a third party, now this legal business, that contract between my debtor and that third party is killing and it's not disputed, but it's a killing that's only in one direction, it's so-called. The killing of legal actions by debtors outside the circumstances followed by another kind of killing, and that other kind of killing is missing here. Why am I saying this? There are two types of killings: bankruptcy and out of bankruptcy. Killing out of bankruptcy is right here the way you're norming and that's okay, that's good. We in the SPS parliamentary group agree absolutely with this and have one approach that must be absolutely in the interest of protecting parties. The party must have a record in the catastros to conduct a procedure for disprovement of the debtor's shop, but what do we have? We don't have it if it's killing in the other direction. Why? Because you're normising that it's just legal situations from so-called. non-parnick matter. It's nothing to argue with. Now the question arises, that we move on to that other matter that doesn't exist here, which is the material in bankruptcy, in bankruptcy we have the executions that are done in the following way – each of the creditors, each of the creditors, even the creditor, has the right to press charges for the killing of legal actions and the legal affairs of the creditor within the time limits prescribed by the law - what does that mean? If the company whose employee I owe me dues, it went bankrupt, and in the meantime, six months ago, a year, five years ago, that firm has alienated its assets, reduced the bankruptcy mass, there is no longer a corpus of bankruptcy that was once sufficient to settle the claims, there is no one, then there has to be access to something that means protection of trustees' interests, which means that it was also meant to enter this company's records and to sign up for the record of refuting legal actions and legal transactions in bankruptcy, and not just outsider matter. Why am I saying this? I hope we understand each other absolutely well, but in bankruptcy only full-time legal affairs are being refuted, only full-time legal affairs. So, those legal transactions that have no elements of nothingness, were not concluded by the party under delusion, coercion, fraud, etc., by the faults of will. There are important legal procedures here. How? Well, someone signed a sales contract and alienated the entire drive, complete production halls, machines, everything went out of bankruptcy, went to the third person. We don't have it in our notes, we don't have it in our notes, and that should be important for the protection of the right of the party, and I think that in that section, the coverage of the notes should be extended, because to me as a creditor of the bankruptcy is in the interest of having that property returned to bankruptcy, and why return to bankruptcy? In order for the bankruptcy mass to raise its potential, because not only will I be charged, but other trusts along with me that are also owed. Therefore, in this part, I think it was very important that the coverage of the observations was extended for those legal situations which are unfortunately not covered here, but should be covered precisely for the reasons I was talking about, and the ultimate objective is legal certainty, i.e. protecting citizens' rights in view of equality against the law, in front of the Constitution, which we do not need to talk about. I think that would be declassified. As for the delivery, I think it's very well regulated. Finally, we now have a situation to deliver letters by service or catastra bodies in a way that simplifies the delivery procedure. Is it now going to be to say the traditional way of delivery – the recommended postal shipment, which is known to process the delivery process if the delivery is not received personally in writing, then the procedure is very clear – is placed on the advertising board, etc. However, it is good that the electronic delivery method was arranged because the advertising board was so far something that confused parties on the one hand, and on the other hand, the parties were not always able to gain insight into the advertising tables. Therefore, this principle of an electronic mailbox, i.e. electronic delivery, will, in any case, speed up the delivery method and shorten the procedure, most importantly, given that the procedure before the Republic Geodesy Institute, i.e. the immovable cadastry services, is taking a very long time. However, even here, I would like to present one of my digressions, my dear colleagues, and I hope that we will have reason to comment on this too, and this is about the relationship between the Office of the Immobility Catastre and the public notebooks as an institution to which certain public powers have been transferred on the one hand, and on the other hand, the treatment of the lawyer who is part of the judicial system, part of the legal assistance system regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? When it comes to public notebooks or notaries, they have, as you yourself know, direct communication with the immovableity cadasar services because they are obliged to automatically notify, transmit, by electronic means, all that they have done in the process of confirmation or solemnisation to deliver a contract and, of course, in this way, the procedure for changing the registration of property rights or other rights, in the case of the protection of party rights as property holders because it is a constituent character of property rights, which means that the right of property is established by registration in the public register, having regard to the fact that there is also a record of the Immobility Catastrian Service as being nothing more than a public register. We have a problem here. Katarina Rakic: Many. I agree, but one would point out and he refers to the lawyer. I have to be a member of that branch to protect the interests of those I belong to, and in this case, I think it's the ultimate basis. Why am I saying this? Serbia's defence chamber has repeatedly asked for the immovableity cadasar services, and even addressed complaints to enable the collection of documents and all other data necessary and necessary for the provision of legal services to the parties. What was the Realtor's Office doing? She ignored such demands, ignored even complaints. Has anyone ever been sanctioned as part of the Immobility Catastrophe Service for that? No, absolutely never. On the other hand, Article 36. The Law on Lawyerry, we are talking about a law that has an imperative nature and that must also respect the services of the equities and their bodies, and on the other hand, the rights of those covered by this law must be met, in a way that protects that law. What does Article 36 say? The law on law of law? The lawyer shall have the right to request, in good time, information, files, evidence in their possession or under their control, to provide legal assistance to state authorities, institutions, businesses, other organisations. It is said in Article 2(2) that the state authorities, institutions and undertakings are obliged to grant access to information, files and evidence provided for in Article 1(1) of this Article in accordance with the law of the lawyer. Dear colleagues, you know for a fact that there is nothing, absolutely nothing, of this provision in practical application. So, who puts up with it? I'm not going to say that lawyers only suffer now. Of course, they were denied in terms of the optimal possibility of providing legal assistance, but the most suffering are parties that have a contractual relationship with lawyers, which is the relationship so-called. the contract, we can say the free deed, because the lawyer is someone who does the work, and the party is the client of the job. In a particular case, the party will suffer. What's going on here? It is true that the Law on the registration procedure of the water immovableity cadasar has given the law special status. We respect that. It's really for respecting the fact that lawyers have obtained the status of professional users of catastra services. The condition for obtaining that status is the conclusion of a contract between the catasters and the lawyers. But when will these contracts be closed? It's only since 31 December 2020, so this year. What does that mean? This means another year the parties will wait for the opportunity to obtain data, which otherwise everyone else is getting very simple, practically feasible, and for another year, lawyers will remain deprived of the relevant data for lack of understanding, ignoring, whatever you interpret. The provision of Article 3(3) of the Law on the registration procedure of water immobilization is a normised principle of the public which you have respected in the Bill's proposal, which is for full respect and support, and there is not a single problem here, but given that the professional user whose status has been granted is not equal to the status of the public register, then we have a serious problem. Why a serious problem? I, I'm not going to talk about devastation of law enforcement by the way the public notebooks started gradually to assume certain powers of attorney, but in a specific case, we can't be angry with what has to be prescribed as it is, where public notebooks are obliged to pass on what is in their opus, to say business, when it comes to correspondence between the Office of the Office of the House of Public Liberation, but it is very important that at least a similar status of privileged users of professional services be recognised by the Office of the Republic Geodetic Office's Office's Office of Immobility, to be recognised. So, in this case, I think we should have acted before, of course not you, of course not the Ministry. I think here is the highest degree of misunderstanding and the highest degree of ignoring by the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is reflected in the immovableity cadasar services, and then we get into the situation where we come in. If this hadn't been a dissatisfaction right now, I have to say, this is the dissatisfaction of citizens. Citizens who expect the speed of action in cases that do not relate to a cadastre are brought to court, but are in order to conduct these court proceedings in an adequate way very important way these data obtained from the Office of the Immobility Catastrophe. In order to be obtained very quickly, a lawyer must quickly access that data and the data must be obtained in the fastest and most efficient way. Why? Because he uses them later in court proceedings. Because these data from the immovableity catastra depend on the success of the dispute, depends on the outcome of the dispute and depends on what the party can expect as a matter of fact in the course of a court procedure. As for these other details that my dear colleague spoke of earlier, extremely professionally, I would not look particularly at, except one little detail that relates to the process of legalising objects. Here we have one situation in which notes are recorded the following content – the facility is in construction, the party bought an apartment in construction, entered a note or a note in the motion building catalogue that she bought an apartment in construction, and after obtaining a useful permit following the technical reception of the facility, automatically transfers the property right based on the contract she concluded. This at first glance seems quite favourable to the party, it seems in some way safe etc. I ask the question of the opposite nature – what if the Technical Reception Commission rejects the technical reception of the building and says it is not satisfactory and cannot be issued? And that's not controversial. Then the party remains registered with a note or note as the owner of the apartment in construction, construction facilities and has some degree of protection. But in this situation, the question of the efficiency of the process is raised until the final solution. Why? Because the new technical reception can be delayed for quite a long time in the light of legislation that has not shortened the deadlines for doing so in the sense of the word. So it's not a mistake or a legislator, it's not yours either, but it's the fault of the part of the law that concerns planning and construction. I am not going to say a mistake, but perhaps it should have been additionally regulated to cut deadlines in some way when it comes to the obligation of the investor to comply with all the rules, not only the building rules, but also the legal obligations to ensure the use of the permit under the threat of significantly more severe sanctions, but also what is now prescribed. I think we understand each other very well in this part. In any case, our support for this bill exists. My objections and criticism are extremely well-intentioned and I think there is absolutely nothing in these remarks and criticism that would devalue the quality of the law. They were given solely because of the fact that the quality of the law would in some way further improve and increase, Catastra's urgency in some way raised to a higher level, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are satisfied with the work of Katastra and absolutely legal certainty when they need to enroll certain rights in the Office of the Catastre of immovableity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71596	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is proposed by MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71597	First of all, I want to thank my colleague Jovanovic for everything he said, and I have to say that indeed, almost 90% of what he said is true and I agree with him. First of all, as regards the scope of the amendments themselves and the addition of the laws, you think it should be wider, of course it should have been wider and that's what I said at the beginning and when we passed this law in 2018. And then we knew that this law would suffer certain changes and additions, but we decided to keep it in small steps and follow every step. So, let's not wait five years for mistakes and bad things to happen, to do bad things, no, but again I say, this is already the second change in two years. Although I'm saying that these are small changes, thirteen members, believe that in the application process this is really going to be major changes. I want to make you a proposal, too, give us everything you think would be in line with this law, and it can be implemented. So let's make new changes and additions, we're absolutely open to it. As far as the text of this law is concerned, we could do with the amendments, you could point to the amendments, we're here about openness, and we're ready to talk about any topic of any of these members that are open, to change something. As for the admission of mortgages, that's what we had when the debate on authentic interpretation was in 2017, I absolutely agree with everything you've stated, but I believe that now you'll agree with me, when I say that the law that regulated it from 2009 was disastrous and that the recording system was completely bad, and that we have cases of abuse, unfortunately, far from thinking about you and you close, but we just had abuses from lawyers. So, we had law offices professionally involved in writing lawsuits. As chairman of the board, I received requests to help citizens who did not know what to do. You know, you leave one morning and you see on your plot a slow note. From who - you don't know who it is - you don't know how long - you don't know how to pull it - you don't know, and you want to sell the paycheck, you file for a loan, someone put you in a blockade, and what are you going to do? Wait for the court to settle? No, I don't. And what happens? All of a sudden, you get an e-mail from some lawyer, he writes to you, well, I'm gonna drop the lawsuit, the one over there owes me, so now it's over your 10th knee, so let me make a note to you that you give it back to me. A man neither knows who he is, nor knows that he owes someone, ever, but the law was on his side. The law said, write down every note, so let it be so blocked. Trust me, this isn't fair. In my opinion, the authentic interpretation that was brought in 2017 has been able to solve at least this situation. Now, what you said, I absolutely agree, is there's one small part left that's not solved, but let's work it out together, make a suggestion. You could have made amendments like that now, except for that famous bankruptcy we have a problem with. And I'm trying, I even filed for an authentic interpretation of Article 133. The bankruptcy law, which really makes one big exception, but I didn't find a debater there. In fact, the 133th law of bankruptcy says that the cadastre has no right to verify property from bankruptcy and the law is over. So, everything the bankruptcy judge sends to the cadastre, the cadastre of the bankruptcy law, has to be implemented. And that's the point. There's nothing we can do here without the Constitutional Court taking it down. You know, above this law is the law of bankruptcy and it's just like that. If you, as my fellow MP, as a lawyer, have some solution that can help us here, well. What did we have here? What cases did we have here? We had cases like Kafka, that some property of people got into some bankruptcy, sold, people signed up, on their houses, parcels, apartments, people never had anything to do with the company that went into bankruptcy, and his assets sold into bankruptcy. Katastar didn't check it, because he doesn't have the right to check it, because the bankruptcy law, article 133, says, you have no right to, how it gets there, sign it in. So we have an absolute nonsense. You have a situation where your inheritance checks out and everything else, and bankruptcy doesn't. In my opinion, it's really something that I think should change drastically, and I'm asking you to maybe consider solving this problem together, because we're all really aware of what these problems are. As far as the Law on Lawyerry itself, which you mentioned, I am now returning to that first part of the law, we did not include it in this part, but I suggest that in the next changes, because we were looking here primarily to comply with this law with the Law on Law and the Law on Planning and Construction. I absolutely agree that the whole system and the simple cadastre one day, I will repeat what I said, should become a register that will implement solutions, and it would be best for us to access such a register through computers and from my house, not to see anyone in the cataster or anywhere. One step at a time is to do so. So, public notebooks and everyone else since January 1st are courts, which have an obligation to communicate via e-salter. Of course, next year they're lawyers. Now, I'm saying, the scope of the law, that is, the changes and the additions, is at this point such that we haven't included that law. I believe that there are still a lot of laws that can be adapted, because we are all headed for something in the cadastre sooner or later, so that, well, I invite you to maybe sit down and write some new changes and supplements that will take a new step, and yet, it won't be so extensive, and all of what you said, which I absolutely agree with, may be classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71598	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, would you like a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71599	I thank you, Chairman. I'm glad we agree on certain important details when a law like this is normalized. I just want to get to know you that we couldn't react to the amendments everywhere, because we would go beyond the scope of the law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly, you know that we were unable to intervene here, because in that part we can only approach a single completely new text, that is to say, to approach the creation of a new legislative proposal that would effectively edit all of this that we agreed on in the first place. There's something else I'd like to comment on. Of course I also condemn all kinds of abuse of procedural powers, regardless of who they were made of, whether they were committed by lawyers, parties, party attorneys, etc. So all abuses must be sanctioned. However, here is the essence of the problem not only to combat the abuse of procedural powers, as you have characterized them, in my opinion perfectly correct, but also to what discrimination implies. For now, the parties have been discriminated against through discrimination against lawyers. I repeat, I do not understand, and I do not believe that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are clear, why would the party wait another year? It takes a year for a court case. Somewhere significantly longer, because we have many old objects. But let's take it for a year. In that year my party has been asking me as a lawyer - I have given you, as a lawyer, the rest of the supplies from the catastra to protect my legal interest - I can't do that, my colleague, because I've been denied that possibility. Why? Because I can only conclude the contract with Kastrar after December 31st, 2020. Then, of course, this is peorative, as my party, you'll say -- wait, how do you represent me? Is that professional representation? It's not. Is that my legal certainty? It's not. Do I expect you to give me legal certainty? Yeah. Now answer me how am I supposed to give it in some way, when the situation is what it is?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71600	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Comrade Rakic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71601	I'll respond very briefly. I absolutely agree with you, and there is no dilemma at all that there is, as far as this is concerned, some conflict of opinion. I'm just saying-- we didn't do the harmonisation of that law and that's the only reason it wasn't taken into account, nothing else, absolutely. Secondly, it is clear to all citizens that they do not have to settle their disputes through lawyers. I say, we're just going to get Katastar to become a service that's going to end all the jobs on the computer. Well, how did we handle it three, four, five, ten years ago? It's a disaster. So now, even though we have a small step, let's at least be satisfied with the results we've achieved. And they're huge. So let's not criticise something that goes towards better and that already has a huge result. So if we had involved lawyers first, then the courts would say - and where are we? If we had involved lawyers first, then the public notebooks would have said, "Why are you holding us back?" If we had turned it on first... He'd always be someone he didn't answer to, and a huge shift was made, huge. So hopefully, I couldn't agree more with you than I'm talking about you being wrong right now. Yes, I repeat again, that law was not the subject of our amendments and additions, we are not at all, so if we had talked about it before, we might have come to a change, there is nothing else that would have been controversial. But I suggest we talk about it, because we can do such changes and amendments to the law every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71602	Thank you, colleague Rakic. Comrade Jovanovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71603	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, I would no longer lead any, no controversy, but no constructive exchange of views, because we agree that this is not about criticism, once again, the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill. My suggestions were exclusively well-intentioned towards improving the quality of the law in the future, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71604	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71605	Thank you, Chairman. Today, we have on the agenda the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure of immovableity and water. The proposal to amend and supplement this law was submitted by my esteemed colleague Rakic, and I think she worked very hard, not easy matter, she prepared herself, I see that she also participates in the debate quite qualified. Otherwise, she is our chairman of the Assembly Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. It's nice to have MPs like that. Here were the words, we approach changes and additions, many will say very quickly in relation to the basic text of the law that has been passed, but we are here to correct legislation, so that ultimately the users will be satisfied, and ultimately the citizens themselves. The essence of the amendments to this law on the registration procedure to the immovableity and water catalogue is to speed up the registration process, to simplify and cheaper registration procedures and to ensure the legal certainty of the owner, i.e. the user of the immovable property. The improvement is primarily seen, there have been a lot of words here, I will not be too long in that part, but I must note that simply in the process of enrolling in the motion and water catalogue, i.e. that citizens, owners and users of the immovable property will be able to use the e-Government, the presentation of the Republic Geodetic Institute, constantly available via the internet advertising board, to get to the data in which its subject was obtained very quickly, or this is the final solution and part of the documentation accompanying the administrative process. There were a lot of words here, especially from counterpart Neda Jovanovic, about the remarks. I think it's an important thing, and in these amendments and additions to the law, it's precise which kinds of notes are recorded in the cadastre and based on which document. So the possibility of writing and deleting notes has been expanded. Twenty notes are listed here decidently and 21 says – other observations prescribed by law. It seems to me that perhaps part of the response to counterpart Neđa Jovanovic stands in this 21st note – other remarks prescribed by law. Next, there were words here, let me just say, about lawyers, about this communication to the Republic Geodesy Institute, about the immovableity cadasar. I'd say, knowing some field relations, there's no bigger problems, and if there are, they're individual, etc. I know lawyers have an objectively good status regarding the very Republic Geodetic Institute and field service. As for the definition of immovableity enrollment, it agrees in one sentence short. It says – registration of land, building and special part of the facility. What's the basis for enrollment now? As far as the plot itself is concerned, the entry into the immovableity cadastre is based on the geodetic elaborate and the registration documents. When entering an object, there is again a need for geodetic elaborate, a useful and building permit. As for the specific parts of the facility, there is again a need for geodetic elaborate, a valid permit and a building permit. In the further part of these amendments and additions to the law, certain cases, certain variations are processed when there is no particular documentation, primarily in the case of the entry of objects, because it usually does not have a valid permit, and it has a construction, or it has a use that is lacking, there is not enough data in terms of enrollment in the immobility catalogue to be used from the use of the permit. Some new institutes have been introduced, and I like it very much, because it overcomes certain cases that occur on the ground, such as the introduction of construction professions. Why this: “the skill of the construction profession ”? Experts are usually very good experts, experienced, educated and experienced, especially in these court proceedings. When they get a certain thing to report for the purpose of enrolling objects in the immobility cataster, on the basis of these data, other data, the competent authority issuing the use of the permit in municipalities and cities shall issue certain assurances that it serves, in addition to the geodetic elaborate, for enrolment and immovableity in the immovableity cataster. What's the common denominator of all these enrolments so far, I've deliberately potentiated what it takes to enroll, is always the embodies of geodetic works, always. It's not just a piece of paper written on a modern machine, a computer, etc., it looks nice, but a geodetic lab is something that's brought from the field. What is brought from the field must be quality and can be applied, respecting certain laws, regulations and sublaws. The geodetic elaborate is designed by a fellow geodetics who is professional, responsible and from the field brings quality factical data, real information about plots and objects that are the basis for enrollment in the cadastre. So, working on working on the elaborates of geodetic work requires the necessary knowledge, expertise, and something else that is usually present when certain data is collected on the ground, then you're with yourself on the ground and you have to have certain knowledge, there's no big help. So such a man must possess, to be full of certain knowledge necessary to collect such information. There's something I don't think has been mentioned here so far, which is that the Republic Geodetic Institute keeps a special record. I say, that's my some definition, she's not a professional safe, special record of unidentified objects in the catastro. This is one of the newspapers that was recently introduced. This is primarily where data are collected based on air recording, and they may be collected in other ways, but to the greatest extent, these data are collected from the air. Today’s technique, of course, makes it possible or easy to make it possible. These data are mainly used or used to compare to official data in the catastro. So you can see if there are certain excesses, whether there are additions to certain objects, etc. I don't just mean construction buildings, I mean line facilities, roads, railways and anything else that's visible from the air. Furthermore, they serve in the legal process. It's a well-known thing, and I wouldn't stick around. Even writing down certain notes on them. Here, it's a certain newspaper and I think it's a very, very good thing. No lies, no fraud, everything is visible, the technique is there. What is said very little or not, although there is no concrete change in that part of the law here, it is a cadastre of water. It's a little familiar. I just want to say briefly, the water cadastre contains spatial and descriptive data and data on the real rights on them. Like all other facilities, so the water cadastre contains these spatial and descriptive data, as well as real rights over them. I'll give some examples, to make it easier to understand the importance of the waters. Waters exist underground and underground. Of course, undergrounds are such a puzzle and very often a puzzle, especially in the performance of works, in mass work on roads, railways, etc. very often they run into this kind of objects that are underground, and of course all citizens work very often on the ground, dig and dig, etc. And there can be damage to such objects. Under the ground are very important objects, very often we are able to, as users of telephones, mobile phones, etc., often we have a break for the reason that someone has unattended the optic cable and cut the connection. And you know when the optic cable breaks off, then in today's conditions we stop to function. So the recording of these objects, recording and recording of property rights on such objects is of great importance, because such objects are recorded with x, y and c coordinates and can always return precisely as to the places where they are located and the depths in which they are located. Thus, damage should not occur if the owners, i.e. the water users, respect the procedure for their recording and entry into the water cadastre. Jobs concerning the implementation of the law in the process of enrolment in the cataster of immovableity and water are carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute. The Republic Geodetic Institute is a special republican organization. Every serious state, and I think that we are, wants to have an orderly and orderly system of immovableity and waterways, as well as real rights over them, and that information is based on the whole of the state, which gives serious importance to the Republic Geodetic Institute and that we need to deal with it seriously, in the sense that it works well and in quality. What I'm saying is that the importance of the General Republic Geodetic Institute is, through its primary units in cities and municipalities or buildings, a very important state body, a special organization that contains these geo-space data, very important for both the present and the past, especially for the future. No vision planning can go without that data. Here, counterpart Rakic spoke about employees at the Republic Geodetic Institute. I'm not going to get into that kind of number much, I'm just going to say two figures, that there are 1,744 geodesys in the Republic Geodesy Office, starting with high school and higher education, and there are 262 lawyers. The basic holders of the work at the Republic Geodetic Institute are geodetics, of course, lawyers are also there who carry out administrative affairs and the registration of rights on fixed and water. Is this a enough number or not? It's not. We here in our congregation very often pass laws that, let's not exaggerate, fifth, sixth, seventh law by number always comes something that is in charge of the Republic Geodetic Institute to do a certain kind of work. So let's say, here's the population list, and we're very important here to do it right, so that the population list is done in the right way, and that these census data can be used in the right way. Simplifiedly, geodesy is applied mathematics, and geodetics must also have special knowledge and background in the information work. Lawyers, who are very important for the functioning of the Republic Geodetic Institute, also have to work very hard on themselves when they come to the Republic Geodetic Institute to understand this geodetic-catastrian matter in order to be able to do their job quality, because it seems to me that there is no such learning in our high-level education that lawyers who are to come to the Republic Geodetic Institute receive basic knowledge from the geodetic-catastrian field. All of this has to be followed by good management of the Republic Geodetic Institute, where I think it's good. This is where my colleague Rakic used to say, I don't want to add or take anything, I think she said enough. I would just point out that the unions in the Republic Geodetic Institute should be involved, to contribute their contribution to the progress of the Institute, that, with certain adjustments they propose, of course they cannot accept everything, but part of it can, and to get better both the Republic Geodetic Institute and better quality of work in the Republic Geodetic Institute. The personal incomes of workers should be at the level that they are stimulating, that these people who work are satisfied, because when our worker is satisfied, then we have the quality of that data or the final data that we get, which we all use. The Republic Geodetic Institute has received many and certain awards and awards, and I have a list of all that, and I think it would stay here quite a while to list it all. I will note that only from 2018 since NAED was won for the reformer of 2018. We as owners, the users of the immovableity should make our contribution that not everything can be done through state authorities and through certain expertise that these state authorities have inside, of course, and through certain techniques, to do everything on motion to make it right. I think there's a certain small part of the misunderstanding, and that's why I think we should make our contribution and be responsible for that immovableity that we own. I'll say one piece of information that's very common with us in Serbia and often happens, and that's, say, the debate of the legacy. We know that we are irresponsible to this, so let's miss one generation, two generations, and then when the debate is done, firstly, it's hard to do, thirdly, there's a fight, there's a problem, and then we're irresponsible, which we didn't do on time, so first knee behind the deceased. It's one of some examples that's visible to all of us. Since I made an effort today to obtain a copy of the 1828 Immobilization List, it was obtained from the Republic Geodetic Institute, or the Old Town Real estate cadastre. This list of immovableities refers to the Assembly of this of ours in which we sit. It is a good example that we who sit in it, of course, and the responsible, see what the enrolment is and what the state of enrolment is about the very National Assembly. There is also a copy of the plan that has been delivered by colleagues from the Stari Grad Real Estate Catastre and there is a view of our Assembly, parcels and everything else, and as far as enrollment is concerned, I will tell you because this information is not a hidden variant. We are located on the plot 3011 surface of 57 acres and 31 square squares and it is city building land at the address of the Square of Nikola Pasić no. 13. It all fits. (Chairman: Please bring in a pair of colleagues. I think this is interesting for you too to read. (President: that's interesting, but this is 21 minutes, a colleague if he gave everyone time.) Please bring the end. ) Of course, but because of the citizens, they need to hear how the National Assembly has it and whether it is enrolled in the Catastar of immovableity properly. (President: I agree with everything, but the Rules of Procedure but that is exactly what colleagues insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I will, of course, honor the Rules of Procedure. Property is the Republic of Serbia, a public property, the size of a share one by one, and something important, there is a note that was said in the G-list, the note says – the property of cultural goods, so this Assembly is culturally good and a monument of culture. I think it was very important, I wanted to say one more thing, but there will be time in the further part of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71606	Thank you, fellow Matić. The word has the president of the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group, MP George Komlenski. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71607	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is not unusual for us to meet again with amendments and additions to the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the Katastar of immovableity and waterways, as during this term, we have had more opportunities to have some other laws repeatedly in the discussion and to reconsider them, or to upgrade them, supplement and coordinate with some of the changes that occurred in the meantime. The PS-NSS-USS parliamentary club will support this proposal in voting day. Of course we've had some amendments, but in the amendments, we'll discuss the day when the time is right. The fact is that this is how the proposed changes and additions come to light with the problems that have arisen over the past period that one can say is short and could be predicted, but it seems to me that they amend and supplement other laws and pass other laws have caused us to have proposals on the agenda to this extent today. There are, in practice, many of the problems that are caused by the fact that we, on the path of digitisation of the administration in each respect, do not have one even growth in all areas, are not all at the same speeds and then these gaps occur that can come. Of course, as a Assembly, we are obliged to recognize them, to respond to them, and to gradually coordinate them so that it would be really a unique stream that would function as a principle of electronic administration or digitisation, as someone prefers to say both when it comes to catastrus and when it comes to the administration, when it comes to the process of issuing a unified procedure when it comes to issuing a building permit, when it comes to notaries, when it comes to courts. So, we many systems, different systems that we've found, we're slowly synchronizing into a single stream that should lead to really when we get to the goal, it's getting much better. Is there anything, so to speak, even worse at some point and makes it difficult just to function and function? Well, it happens, but of course it is and it is envisaged and it has to be brought out and patient and over and simply many things like others for further regulation in this which remain on the catastrophe should be simplified in some future period. In addition to the advertising board when it comes to advertising solutions, easier access to copying solutions that have been made, meeting parties in a simpler way, is a reaction, I have to say that we have a lot of problems with the delivery and handing of letters. When I say that, I don't just mean the work of the post office, I mean the situation that many of these documents ask us for personal delivery, they mean, because the assumption of something like that has to be personally delivered to the party that it refers to, and because of the change in working time, the fact is that many more people are doing today than it was ten years ago, we get to the point where that mail is not delivered. The mail has some of its working hours, but working people also have their working hours, which is between nine and five today, it used to be between seven and three, so it was easier to get out of work to get mail. The mail worked differently. Now this leads to certain delays and delays when it comes to advertising the justice and enforcement of certain solutions in procedures, not only in the cataster but also in some other areas, but today we are talking about the cataster. I think that with this ad board, we're going to do a lot of things, we're going to make it easier, it's not going to be a solution to the problem that exists until the end, but there's still going to be that problem that we've been talking about in previous changes, that is, the debate on changes and additions, the issue of charging taxis, the delivery by mail, the notification of how much tax is, and so on. I'll remind you that at that time we had one proposal that at least one part, one area that was quite well arranged could now facilitate, it was a proposal to make the notaries mandatory that, with all the documentation delivered by the cataster, they would be obliged to deliver a certificate of a paid fixed fee, which would make all the peripetities that occurred after that far faster and more efficient and functionally resolved. You see, where the difference is in general whether someone from the catastra service will, when the registration procedure is completed within an emergency period of five days as prescribed in the contracts sent to them by the notaries, if the procedure for the delivery of the tax order follows, so no solution has been delivered for various reasons. Well, in the end, it even happens that these fees are taking a forced way to charge, because that means after a certain number of attempts to hand over a taxi order to the party, and she doesn't, there's a process of execution, and then we have a problem with why something that should have cost a few thousand dinars due to the executive procedure costs a lot more. All of this needs to be looked for in much simpler ways, looking for ways to do it all. It seems to me that it's not too much of a simple way to talk about digitisation, to be able to send emails to certain data, and to condition the procedure to the extent that someone is particularly authorised to be registered, that they can communicate in such a way with competent state authorities, starting with having to verify an electronic signature, to open a special mailbox, a special e-mail seems to me that there's a lot to be done in that segment. When the time comes for this kind of administration to finally dissipate, then surely one number of workers who are currently buried in the cataster with these problems, and by expedition, means they can't have only one person working on the delivery problems. However, in many situations, both professional people and professional staff must be consulted, so this implies again some loss of certain working time that can be spent on solving cases that have lagging behind from an earlier period and to the satisfaction of the citizens and to speed up that part of the procedure in relation to what it is not. I'm not going to defend the cadastre much, I know there have been a lot of objections about some delays in some decision-making procedures, but the fact is that even the jurisdiction of the catastra has changed. The Katastar had previously made first-degree solutions in the second-degree decision by the ministry, and there from a long time ago, a huge number of inherited cases are simply now at the authority of conduct returned to the cadastre itself, and that the cadastre is unable to expand its capacities properly, due to the ban on employment, it is not easy to provide people who can be quality and responsible to respond to that kind of work. So with the resources that the catastran currently owns and with the possibility of human capacities that it has both qualitatively and quantitatively. I'd really only have positive marks on the work of the catastra. Of course, that we can always find a reason for dissatisfaction, but it's not the point as with the judiciary to say that it's the norm of judges to do 300 judgments a year, when there's no quality there, then it's physically inconclusive, so it's inconclusive and it's expected from the people of the cataster to actually, this one under enormous pressure to work, solve objects, which requires the attention that are outside of those routine jobs. So in addition to these changes to the legal ones that need to relax them from all of this, we need to do a serious analysis, what Serbia is looking for in the next period and expects from the service of the real estate catastra, to make proportionate estimates, when it comes to material resources, but primarily, when it comes to human resources. It might be good that at this stage when many of these laws are passed, they are adopted, when they are discussed, a little more account leads to whether perhaps through some kind of special body, which will take care of the future harmonisation of the functioning of the electronic system of certain segments, both catastra and income administrations that simply some discrepancies that we are forced to do today through parliamentary debate, through legislative changes we solve, people who understand, of course with consultation with people from the profession, respecting, of course, the objections of my fellow lawyers, because in the scratch many things can help, simply experienced, such things through a good coordination in the future will be better monitored. It seems to me that we're slowly entering this one fine-tuning electronic, electronic-work administration that until 10 years ago worked exclusively with paper. It's a huge step, it's also looking for a huge engagement, therefore, and such frequent debates when it comes to the Law of the Cataster or some other law, and here it's seen that really because of the improvement of some quality and network of electronics through which the catastre works, there is an increasingly open space for one relaxation, one more quality and better work. If we recognize everything correctly, we don't know, it'll show time. This time of harmonisation also implies a single dose of risk that we can make a mistake at this point or at this point we can't predict everything by legal changes, which we even expect will be a problem, because some other systems that need to be fully consistent with the late-onset disaster at this point would be too big for us to understand, so we should have understanding because of the frequent debates. When I say it often, they're not the fruit of someone's irresponsible or recklessness. Such frequent changes and additions to the law in these four years that we have had the opportunity to meet are precisely due to an extremely dynamic development of Serbia's administration. It's just something that has to be solved in walking. I must say that it seems to me that the answer is both competent, but also the parliament, when these situations are more than satisfactory and simple, that is the basic reason why we will support these changes and complements with one proposal that I have made and I hope that they will be transferred to the right places, that, in future problems that are related to digitisation, which are precisely due to the diversity of the system, which still function, appear somewhere in practice, people who are exclusively from that area of expertise, of course, after suggestions they can get primarily from law enforcement, from catastrases, when it comes to this law and some other areas, to know how better to formulate and better predict, so to say, in advance, that this would not happen often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71608	The word is proposed, Katarina Rakić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also want to thank Mr. Komlenski for everything he said and say that mostly I agree with everything he said, but he reminded me just to discuss one situation that we all know was, and that's the chaos around the class at the second degree in the catastro. As we all know, the second degree was in the ministry earlier. I'm going to tell you specifically since 2016 when we finally made a cut and started dealing with this problem, because these items are who knows when. So 2016 is the year we put an end to that chaos in the second degree. Then we had a situation that some of the working group suggested that the second degree be abolished absolutely and that all complaints of catastra solutions go directly to court. However, the Law on Administrative Procedure does not allow this, because it says that all decisions by the authorities of the administration must have two-stageness. At that point, we thought the best solution was that the decision-making authority would also be competent to resolve those solutions, or appeal to those solutions, in the second degree. That's when we transferred the rescue to the second degree in GZ. As I already mention in 2016, then we had a 26,500-grade number, I speak only in the second degree, from who knows when, to 2016. What did we do then? We've passed a law that we've cut across. For these items, concluded on 1 January 2016, a special group was formed, a special team of workers on the second stage of the cadastre, i.e. the RGZ, who dealt with only those cases until 2016 from who knows when, until 2016 and 2018, all these cases were resolved. So, all items in the RGZ on the second degree from who knows when until 2016 have been resolved, and since 2016, since 1.1.2016 a legal deadline has been given for solving cases at the second stage of 45 days. So the second degree is required to respond to all the solutions, that is to say, to all complaints within 45 days, and that deadline is to be observed. What is also important, what we have found by this law is that the second degree of RGZ has the right, that is, the obligation that if the appeal is returned for the second time, the second time corresponds metrically. So we didn't have that obligation before, and that's why the objects kept repeating themselves, the system just blocked. This 2016 law provides that, if the case is returned for the second time, the RGZ, the second degree, corresponds metrically and can no longer be referred to the same complaint, RGZ, but in that case, the appeal is referred to the Court of Justice. That's what you mentioned, whether something is getting worse by making these rules, simply saying that everything goes electronically and that it probably exists, and I also believe it exists, but I guess it's just the resistance of workers who are used to one system of work and now it's hard for them to adapt to a new system and everything to be digitized and everything to be much more accessible and transparent. But I hope that in time everyone accepts something that will simply be much simpler to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71610	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71611	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague, I did not knowingly enter the number of inherited cases from the previous period, because I simply did not have that information and I did not want to bid, but I can say what I did in personal practice, by doing the law, I ended in 2016, put the office on hold, as it is said, that during 2015, 2016 and after that I only got answers to some complaints which were made from 2007, 2006, 2008, so much about how much the problem was. It is clear to me that this backlog is clearing up and creating a new backlog, no matter how much energy people who work in the second degree, in the cataster, invest to solve it, another problem has been created, because these items that have arrived in the meantime had to wait for order, and simply there is a certain delay. Exactly, I know about it, and it's something that a man has to accept in practice to happen, no matter what the legal provision says, I've only talked from one other angle. Personally, I think that the cadastre should have room for even more high-quality, more educated people who will work in the second degree so that we don't have the goal of having them meet the 45-day standard, but that the decision is high enough, because setting deadlines at any cost, which is not the case but generally, cannot lead to quality, then we agree on the issue of statistics, and in order to stick to the quality, because the cataster is not an ordinary organisation, to say administration or whatever someone wants to understand it and to experience it, it is one of the key segments of the protection of legality, the protection of property rights, the development of Serbia, because it also depends on the procedure of issuing building permits, that we don't go too far in width. (President: Bringing the end. ) I think it is very important to recognize the number of people, how many people for this type of operation should be employed in the cataster, given appropriate incomes, and then rightly we can be angry if they do not meet their obligations faster than it says in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71612	I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71613	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is raised today's session, given that the distinguished Mrs Katarina Rakic is today a proposing of these changes, why is this on the agenda today? If that's the need where the Ministry is as a proposing? By what standard are things to be chosen on the agenda in the National Assembly? I will remind you, in this conference, you have discussed only the things they have proposed from the Ministry, and when that is the exception, it is Gordana Comic and her proposals. When it appeared very suddenly in the National Assembly, MPs of the ruling majority raced here to praise Gordana Comic for bringing her out, forging her into the stars. The same thing was with Nenada Chanka's proposals about the AP. The Serbian Radical Party, which submits more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens for the new Law on Executive Procedure and Security, as early as September, will remind you, and the signatures we collected in less than two months, the law, that is. The bill didn't come to the agenda. Why? What is the special value, with all due respect to Mrs. Rakic and her team? Why was this found today in the National Assembly? Twenty days before the election was called, they began from various ministries to empty drawers, the Assembly works full steam, but there are no fundamental changes and not to discuss fundamental things, but only trivialities. As far as the law has been changed, i.e. It has already been amended for the fourth time in 2018. This refers to the security, fundamentality and quality of this solution. Less than two years ago, i.e. A year and a half passed the law, and the fourth time changed. Does anyone think that's normal? One of the biggest problems in Serbia is the issue of legalisation, i.e. The laws of illegal objects and we've heard multiple times the information that there are so many and so many, hundreds of thousands of these cases, how long it's been waiting and what's the fact and absolutely all of Serbia knows is that this procedure is at all a great source of abuse and corruption, and yet we haven't seen that it's done, i.e. to resolve this issue, at least one step at a time unless the situation is such that it can be solved by a decree, or at once. We also had the opportunity to listen to from various representatives, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the ruling majority about potential involvement in the crime of that Director Katastre. So we heard he's in that place because he'd still want to keep stealing, to do abuses, and so on. Then today we see all the best of him. I'm also interested in what's changed in the last year, so someone we haven't told me is one of those, but representatives of the government, what's changed, so now he's suddenly a fantastic solution to the cadastre. What do you think people in Serbia even think about the recording process and the work of Katastra at all? Big problems, big bureaucracy, slow, long waits, and what every time is a question for anyone with a problem about enrollment is whether or not they have a connection. This is today's reality in Serbia, and we can't see with this legal solution either, i.e. changes, that's a matter to be resolved. In particular, we had a situation that the catastre had been absolutely blocked for more than a year, that many Serbian citizens were unhappy about it, and that the minister in charge had absolutely not seen the problem in all this and nothing had been resolved. As regards the authorities of the local self-government, since it is predicted that before making a decision on the legislation they submit to the competent service, i.e. Catastre service. The question arises why would the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Proposer, i.e. Power in Serbia, why would they doubt the quality, i.e. the work of authorities and local self-government? Why doesn't he trust them? It is simply unacceptable because such a situation can also be a source of abuse and that certain people are looking for some money to solve it, that is to make this wait as short as possible, that is the possibility that now occurs with this solution. Also, we have seen that assurances can be issued, i.e. enrolment in a cadastar in relation to the assurance of the competent authority without a building permit. Does no one really see a potential source of corruption in that? Unless all the conditions are met, or there are no construction and use permits or they are not complete, the competent authority shall give assurance and that is it? Are we, then, in a situation where money can be resolved, and if the documentation doesn't fit, or if these permits are not complete? That question doesn't answer either. We've seen how this government boasts about digitization, how it boasts by electronic means of doing all possible work related to the state administration. Do you think it's really a reality in Serbia, that it's possible to do and ask for, for example, in rural areas where there are many nursing households, do you think it's feasible, that it's realistic that they're being asked about e-mail and an electronic way of solving these things? As feasible as this is, whatever government campaign is marketing in the field of digitisation, it sounds very nice, but in practice, little has been done in that field. So there is a reason to stall and thus create a situation of corruption. As far as legalization is concerned, if you are really interested in solving this issue, which is something that should be dealt with as urgently as possible, especially because there are no sustainable proposals to resolve this issue, since 2015 absolutely nothing has been done, we are against any destruction, but a certain order must be introduced. The competent authority must assess what it is that the owners of illegal objects should pay up, that this procedure is accelerated, and not that it is sought in some secret way, or corrupt way, to solve these issues, which is something they promised even before they came to power and what existed before 2012, and we see that very little repairs have been made, or almost nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71614	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we will proceed in a row of MPs according to the application for the word. He now has the word of the proposer, MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71615	I thank you, Chairman. I actually volunteered to respond to what Mr. Seselj said, so I'll try to look back on a lot of what he said. First of all, my dear colleague, I am sorry that you are contesting that we, as MPs, are submitting drafts of the law. At the beginning of my presentation, I said that I am glad that the Government has accepted one of our initiatives at all, and I believe that this is primarily a great honor for us, and today there is no one from the Ministry, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, they have no right to be there, because as an authorised legislator of the law, I have the right to speak and hope that I can answer all the questions that concern the amendment and addition of the laws that are before us today, so, according to the Rules of Procedure, I don't know why it would be with the members of the Government, or from the people of the ministry today and have been here? You're saying there are no fundamental changes, so if you think that these amendments that are proposed, which I suggested in the amendment and addition of the Law on Registration in Katastar, won't help citizens speed up some of their daily work, if they don't speed up some procedures, so I don't know what you think is a fundamental change? Later in your presentation, you said that the catastre had a lot of problems. Well, yeah, that's why we solve them this way and step by step. We're essentially solving them. You said there was a problem. So if we didn't do anything, those problems would stay. So we're dealing with them. You stated that the director of the catastra participated in some of the criminal activities. That's the first I've heard of it. Now, I invite you, if you've really heard that, go ahead and report it. Do not let a man who does his job every day do his job in the way he does to make such accusations without having the information “yes, a man told me. ” Please report it. Well, then call Arsic to help you with that. Sign up, don't put stuff like that behind the pay phone, 'cause I just don't think that kind of thing really works for anybody. As for the fact that, you said, in this bill, we agreed this law to the Law of Law and we said that the elaborate is an integral part of the legislation solution and must be attached. Well, do you think that you bring the rest of the solutions to Katastar and say, "Good afternoon, I have come, write me down." No, of course everything else is being checked. What makes you think we should make an exception here? Of course, what we have voted here as a Assembly simply put it to represent an integral part of the solution we must contribute to the moment that this thing is recorded. I can repeat again that you have raised certain doubts that there may be a solution for money, so I call you again – please report. It will contribute to both you and us, to solve such cases immediately. If you know where these places end up, let's solve them. We're going to step forward so that one day we don't see anyone on the counter, that the catastre doesn't exist as a service, that we'll end everything from home, from the computer, that we don't see anyone to whom we're giving the request and who's giving us the solution, but we have to go step by step. So don't trip us up, but if you have any objections, let's go through the amendments to solve them, not in this way to speak, which doesn't really stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71616	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71617	Dear Mrs. Rakic, no one is delaying the possibility of you suggesting anything. If you have the rights provided for by the Rules of Procedure, of course you should exercise them. So, what's the problem? The problem has been something in Serbia since 2000, and so has your earlier sentence, which is your state of consciousness, when you say - it is my great honor that the government has accepted this. In the hierarchy of state authorities, the National Assembly is superior to the Government and cannot be a national MP satisfied that someone from the Government has shown him mercy by putting his bill or amending the law on the agenda. It's one situation that's not normal. I ask the question, that this is the best possible solution, why are you as a national MP worth more than 22 SRS MPs who have proposed a proposal for a new law on executive procedure and security for which more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens have been collected in less than two months? Why is it better and more important that you did what we did? I agree that procedures and good customs here, as far as parliamentary practices are concerned, are not respected. I know it would have been much better if we had gone with our bill and these signatures to Gordana Komic, so she would have suggested it, so it might have been on the agenda, but I want to point to an abnormal situation. As for the director of the catastra, I was just repeating what your fellow MPs were saying. Neither did I, nor did I know anything about it. I can believe it or not, when someone from your MP's club says something like that, so I'm just wondering, if someone said it before, it's been a year, what exactly changed, so the situation isn't like that anymore? So here's the principle of law-proposing. The exception, which is not normal, is that the MP proposes something, so that it is found on the agenda, which is usually, that is, the regular state is when the ruling majority, subordinated to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries, implements everything as a flow boiler what comes from the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71618	The proposal is proposed by the National MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71619	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear fellow, you know how laws are put on the agenda. You don't need to collect citizens' signatures, you need 126 votes in parliament to put a certain law on the agenda, and that's what you get, dear colleague, in the elections. I don't know why you're telling us now that if you didn't get it here in the O.R., you're saying that something isn't legitimate? No, 126 votes are needed to put the law on the agenda. Dot. I don't know why you compare it to Gordana Komic's law, which makes a whole other sense. So now you can say about any law that's been filed, and it's not put on the agenda. In particular, for what you've submitted, I say again, it takes most of the 126, so go ahead, put it on. Why is it so controversial for you that I say it's an honor to be part of Alexander Wolficher's team, that I'm part of the SNS team? I'll say it a hundred times. It's an honor to be a member of the SNS, and it's an honor to be part of the reform team in the past seven and a half, eight years, and I'm going to keep saying it and I'm not ashamed. I don't know why that's so controversial for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71620	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71621	I've noticed that you're a little angry, colleague. I'm very sorry about that. I'm saying again, I support that you did this and that's how you suggested it and what you're doing today. That's what I think is normal. Please answer my question, if you said, since the 100,000 people who signed our proposal to abolish the executioner absolutely has nothing to do with it, until we have 126 votes, i.e. MPs in parliament. Please answer me how many MPs there are in parliament Gordana Komic and how many did she win in the elections? Given that you have been very easy and very commendable about it, I do not say you specifically, but your colleagues. Even here she gathered, among other things, more and more visible SNS female MPs, including Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. She co-ordinated that session. So that's reality. I'm just saying, I point to injustice, I point to your indiscipline. What kind of law he or she is and what he does, I think it also doesn't matter if the parliamentary procedure is respected. Maybe we should have boycotted the National Assembly first, so we could start breaking into the National Assembly at some point in the night or in Serbian Radio Television or anything else, and then after a few months back here, maybe you'd have been commending us too. I think you should first look at a slightly wider picture of all this, not automatically reject something that you don't like or which isn't on your ideological line, as our proposal is supported by more than 100,000 citizens to eliminate the perpetrators, such as on your ideological line what you have accepted, as suggested by Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71622	The word is proposed by MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71623	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Now we may be coming to the essence of one other thing here. I don't know if we really need to talk about who passed the law right now, but what is the essence of that law. The Serbian Progressive Party accepted the proposal that Mrs Comic made, which is to find 40% of women in parliament. Now I don't know if that's really the problem we want to talk about? I don't know, it's not the subject of the agenda today, but I've been there myself. Now if we're going to discuss this, well, we're just going back to a session that took place ten days ago, and I don't think it's really correct. There's something else on the agenda today, and please let's get back to it. Again, I want to repeat to you if any of your legal proposals are correct, I don't mind voting. I'm telling you again, it takes 126 votes by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71624	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71625	Dear Mrs Rakic may have offended some citizens of Serbia, especially those who signed our initiative when saying 126 MPs needed to find such a thing. Here we have, I will read, so: “Right to propose laws and other general acts, Article 150. The Rules of Procedure have every MP, government, assembly of an autonomous province or at least 30,000 voters." So it absolutely doesn't matter what 100,000 people have to say. You don't have to accept that, but it would be normal for you to respect them and discuss it. In the end, you may be voting against, not to talk here about 126 required MPs to vote on it. Don't tell me that both Nenad Canak and two other LSV MPs or how many people are in that parliamentary group, I don't think there's even ten of them, you've been discussing these proposals all day because it was politically appropriate for you at that point. There was no fundamental debate, but it was appropriate to drill into the patriotic breasts at the time, as well as what you wanted when you supported Gordana Komic, as a thunder from the clear sky when she appeared in the National Assembly. You didn't say how many MPs you have, even though your solution is fantastic. I'm not asking you to vote it, i.e. to vote for it or to adopt it, but to respect some people who have made their views very clear on one of the most important topics, much more important than we have in the National Assembly in the last half of the year. This is a proposal to abolish public enforcement. It is something that causes great anger among all citizens of Serbia and your people who vote for you and who vote for other political parties. They are absolutely united in their view that this is something that Serbia does not need. So, please, take care only before you start to transfer anything to other MPs on principle and that it should be the same rule for every MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71626	Since no one is reporting from representatives of the parliamentary groups, or the president, we continue with the order of MPs according to the application for a word. I give my word to Parliamentarian Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71627	Thank you. Any bill that goes to make it easier for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is extremely important, extremely high-quality and certainly will have the support of the party's MPs "Justice and Reconciliation". The problems that arise in Katastra are indeed great and from what we have heard on several occasions today when it comes to the work of the cadastres, about the slow issue of licenses, solutions, and especially when it comes to, say, situations when we have more owners for one plot and then it simply has to wait if one solution is submitted for confirmation, so if you submit another as another co-owner, then you have to wait enormously. It's something we should and what these proposals and how they simplify, it comes to the hands of the citizens. However, our field experience suggests that very often in the cathedrals we have certain levers of crime that do not work in the sense in which we should work. I will remind you of 2017, the action that the "Justice and Reconciliation Party" launched when it came to bookshops and casinos, their distance from educational institutions, that we then submitted the petition to the ministry and that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration replied at the end of 2017 that in Katastra in Novi Pazar, it was found that counterfeited measurements of the distances of bookshops and casinos from the educational institution, that criminal charges were filed against certain workers from Catastra, as well as against the owners of a private geodetic agency. Of course, we don't have an epilogue today on these criminal charges. We had that it was forbidden to work on a number of bookies and that in fact it was proof that they were not in every sense clean work when it came to the work of cadastres, or individual parts or individual people who had powers, such very important segments of the arrangement of our community, and given the monster betting and casinos and the attack on our society as a whole and this part of their engagement is extremely important. Some internal controls should also be taken into special care. They don't always have to put up with initiatives to check when it's as obvious as it was in this case. We are sure that even today, if we were to return to these internal controls, that we have on the ground not only in Sandzak and Novi Pazar, but also in other cities, there are such releases of falsified solutions, because it is plainly naked with the eye that certain bookshops and casinos are at a nearer distance from educational institutions, especially from schools, primary and secondary schools, kindergartens, higher education institutions. Of course, on the other hand, we also have big problems when it comes to catastrus, for example in Tutin, in Sjenica, and especially in Tutin, where certain parcels have been sold several times and recorded on multiple names, especially those excluded from public property, municipal property, etc. This was done by non-chalantly certain employees from the Catastrian administrations, and that is something that would have to be also the subject of the debate and eventually get in the way of the crime. It is not right for malversions, thanks to these levers of crime, within the system, particularly catastrian parts or organizations, to be damaged by citizens and to come, say, regularly to sign up for a tender, you bought a certain plot, but when you came to register, you saw that it was already sold to someone else and that it was registered to someone else. Especially, for example, in the area of the Cave, in the municipality administrations of Tutin and Sjenica, many times we had such solutions. As far as law enforcement is concerned, the part that has been very present lately, when citizens are able to complete all their obligations when it comes to the legislation of their apartments or business facilities in which they live, there is an extraordinary trom, extremely slow and very often encounters certain problems that are mostly resolved, if the modernisation of catastrian organisations is carried out and if the control of the work of people in charge of these jobs is strengthened and, if possible, when the situation is seen, the organisations with an additional number of better quality and qualified people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71628	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71629	It seems that Mr. Chevarlic predicted that I would discuss the property in charge, which disappeared during the yellow cockroaches. MPs who don't know, to meet them. A dispute will be held in Strasbourg over the illegal privatisation of cooperative property, which is about 200,000 hectares. If they decide in Strasbourg that the privatisation of cooperatives was illegal, in this situation we risk someone calculating 200,000 hectares into two billion euros. And the revenues from the entire privatisation of agricultural land during the authorities of these poor people totaled 50m euros. So with all businesses, a total of 153 private companies were privatised at 1.8m euros per piece. The largest combination, it's 63, with 300,000 hectares sold with all the facilities for 50m euros. In that case, if there were no land books in court, if the court had not been involved in organised crime, that even after that same judge had been on the yellow criteria of 2008 and 2009, the famous reform or deformity of the judiciary would have been included by me in the reserve composition of the Democratic Party, if it hadn't been for these courts, such unfair privatisations, first of all cooperative assets, would have been gone. Therefore, privatisation is allowed to privatise social capital, but the game by courts treated cooperative capital not as cooperative but as social capital and allowed that kind of privatisation. Whether our country will pay once again for this illegal privatisation will probably be decided by the Strasbourg court, and we have definitely lost at least four billion revenue in privatisation at several hundred thousand hectares worth five-six billion. If that income were here now, if it were our land here, I ask what would the current government do with all that money? Catastre is important because of Montenegro. Let's ask ourselves, Mr. Martinovic, what is the importance of the catastra on the case of Montenegro, where Milo Djukanovic is trying to enroll St. Sava, Nemanja, Nemnjević, to try to enroll Negos and paraphrasise King Nikola and the book of Nikola, previously says - there-on the hills, they say that he is the tomb of Negos, and to us, for the hills she, Negosev's Serb became a slave. There, and my poetic contribution. But Milo Djukanovic is invited, and Cedomir Jovanovic, to the futility of the Podgorica Assembly. Now I ask the Montenegrin Catastre, if that's true, if the decision of the Podgorica Assembly is void, if Serbia was an occupyer, then let's go back to Montenegro to the catastrian state, right, Mr Martinovic, before 1918, or 1914 or 1916, when they capitulated, so we had to release them to the Serbian army, to chase Austro-Hungarians by sea, Montenegro, in Dalmatia, etc. Let's get back to the state before the 1914 Podgorica Assembly. So let's go back to the state of 1914, not to recognize the Podgorica Assembly in 1918. When so, Mr. Djukanovic, the sacred thief, then let's see how many Montenegro's shores had without the Podgorica Assembly. The Podgorica Assembly made a decision on Montenegro's then territory, and if the decision is invalid, it applied to Montenegro's territory. The coast was from Ulcinj to Sutomor. So, Budva, the coast, Boka Kotorska, didn't belong to Montenegro until 1918, did not belong until 1965, when communists re-distributed to the territory won by the Serb army to assign it to Montenegro. If the Serb army was an occupation, then their cadastre cannot register what belonged to it, which they received thanks to the alleged occupation of the Serb army. Boka Kotorska and the coast, here, Mr Martinovic, will certainly know it better than I, made a decision in November 1918 to attach not to Montenegro, she made a decision to join Serbia. So she made a decision, the same as Srem, in Ruma, made the same decision that the Great Assembly made for Banat, Baka and Baranja. These are the same decisions where neither Montenegro nor the countries of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians in Zagreb are attached directly to Serbia. Well, Mr. Djukanovic, here you go, if you want that kind of catastra, let's see why, say, you've divided Sandzak. Let's see why you now want to keep in your catastrom the territory that the Serb army has won, and with the will of the Bokokoctor and the coastal organizations and the people, in the large congregations and national councils, it is attached to the Republic of Serbia. Well, let's talk about it a little bit, not just how you're going to steal the church property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which joined the Serbian Orthodox Church in Belgrade in December 1918 and said that it is the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro and that it joins the Patriarchy in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71630	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71631	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have before us a bill submitted by our fellow MP, Katarina Rakic. These are amendments and additions to the Law on the registration procedure in the catalogue of immovableity and water. The importance of the catastra is great for each country, because it sees exactly the attitude towards real estate, i.e. property, both private and public. What is listed in the catalogue, as property, is fully protected against domestic and international legislation. This confirms the highest level of property, thus defending property. How important it is that all immovableities, whether it is a private, state or church property, are entered in the Register of immovableities, also speak of the fact that there are growing attempts to take property, which is unfortunately happening both to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, where private church property is being usurped, which is, unfortunately, a major danger and to the property of the SPC in Montenegro. Our colleague Neđo Jovanovic explained in detail the need and importance of amending and supplementing the laws we are discussing today, and he also made proposals and suggestions to improve the quality of this law that I personally support. Serbia has a legislative framework in this area that monitors all European movements and, above all, our needs. We have often adapted it, changing the law here in the Assembly, with the aim of making it as simple as possible for citizens to enter, but also to check that their immovableities are recorded in the catastro. Much of the process has been accelerated because electronic communications and electronic administration are being used, so you can order from home a list of immovableities. The law we are talking about today, which we are discussing, also aims to improve existing legal solutions, eliminate some legal gaps and speed up procedures concerning the exercise of citizens' rights in front of cadastrian services. The first part of the amendments to the law, which refers to the way in which the entry solution is delivered to the cadastre, improves and accelerates these procedures, so that the entry solution can also be delivered by e-mail, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Administration and using electronic signature, which will speed up this process to a large number of users. So far, the delivery of these solutions delivered by mail to the parties, as the party has the right to appeal for a solution, and the General Administrative Procedure Act, which applies to the registration procedure in the cadastre, is prescribed by the personal delivery procedure. If, for the second time, the supplier does not find the recipient of the solution on the spot, or at the address where it is necessary to deliver the solution, he shall leave a notice that that user may take the solution in the competent authority within 15 days of the date on which the solution was delivered and the expiry of that period shall be deemed to have been completed. So often citizens walk between mail and catastra. These solutions are not rarely returned from mail to cadastre. Very often citizens have their own properties in some other municipalities, so they must be directed and travel to these municipalities to regulate this right. The proposal for these amendments and additions will simplify these procedures, speed up and thus make it easier for citizens to obtain these documents. Also, what's a good solution in this bill is that now all kinds of notes that have to be entered into the cadastre and on the basis of which documents can be made. 21 types of notes to be entered in the cadastre under this law, i.e. part of a list of immovableities called the freight sheet, are listed. That is how you now get a precise legal solution and remove the possibility, doubt and space for free interpretation of the rules. It is also good that new remarks are introduced which are important for the transport of immovable property are recorded in the cadastre, which are the observations of the commission procedure, the restitution process, particularly important observations of the court's decisions on the temporary confiscation of property resulting from the conduct of criminal acts. Also, this law introduces observations for objects that have the status of cultural goods, as well as for objects that are under the legal process and are not included in the cadastre and prevents them from being trafficked. In this way, the catastro has a full overview of the state of all immovableities recorded in the immovableity cadasar, which is also a more responsible attitude of the state towards all immovableities and the possibility of taking the necessary actions in the immovable traffic procedures, and these legal solutions should contribute to preventing immovableity, without knowing the status of this immovableity. In this way, we will avoid possible malfeasance, double traffic, and the ultimate goal of every law must be the safety of citizens, when it comes to its immobility. I expect that these amendments and amendments to the law will improve the situation in the cataster, and for this reason the SPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71632	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71633	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for enrollment in the catalogue of immovableity and water is in line with the Law on Electronic Administration and the Law on General Administrative Procedure and some provisions of the law are specified in accordance with the need for practice, and all in order to increase the efficiency and urgency of the immovableity catastrays, simplifying the registration procedure in the immovableity and water catalogue. The Law on registration in the ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ catalogue of immovableity and water 41/2018 has taken a major step in improving the efficiency and urgency of keeping public records of immovableity and rights above them. Simplified application of rules for citizens and economy, through effective organisation of work and improvement of co-operation between state authorities and the removal of the problems observed... The adoption of the law lays down a greater responsibility for public notaries and other public authority perpetrators who bring, draw up, confirm or certify documents that constitute the legal basis for enrollment in the ‘Immobilities’ catalogue and the establishment of an electronic document-sharing channel between the Immobilisation Office and professional users, courts, public notebooks, public enforcement authorities and other public authority holders who bring, or draw up, certify or certify the documents which are the basis for enrolment in the cadastre. Currently, e-salter is connected to public notebooks, public enforcement, tax administration, Agency for Restitution, Institute for the Protection of Monuments, and training is under way to connect e-salter and other public administration bodies that bring in documents that are the legal basis for enrollment in the immovableity catalogue. The draft law specifically refers to the precision of the provisions which are in practice lagging behind. First of all, inconsistencies in the making of documents that are the basis for enrolment in a cadastre, given that the laws governing out-of-party and litigation proceedings do not prescribe that the sentence of the decision, which determines the rights to immovableity, must be entered and the data that facilitates the identification of such rights holders. This is first of all about the unique number of citizens, i.e. the identification number from the valid travel document for foreigners and legal persons on the home number, i.e. the number of entries in the register of the country of establishment for foreign legal persons. These precisions have been done to protect the property rights of the stickers and for subsequent legal transactions in relation to this immovableity. The proposal for a law also aims at harmonising the Law on Electronic Administration, which requires the Authority to download data from the register in electronic form without additional verifications. However, it was left with the possibility that the party in the procedure could provide evidence that the state of marriage is different from what is entered in the marriage books, thus eliminating the possibility of wrong registration in the cadastre. It is specified that the common property in the course of the life of the community is not entered in the cadastre in the case of heirs by inheritance and weightless legal basis in accordance with the law governing succession and thus removes the dilemma of enrolment on property which is obviously a special property of spouses. The draft law also specify the facts which are relevant for the establishment between termination or transfer of real rights to the immovableities relating to the rightholder’s personality. The law prescribed that all entries were made on the basis of contracts certified by the court more than 20 years ago. The draft law reduces the time limit to the beginning of the application of the Law on Public Registration in September 2014, and this is due to the fact that counterfeit contracts have appeared in practice under which the application for registration in a cadastre has not been requested for years, and in the interest of legal entities it is necessary to verify whether they are recorded in a register in which they are allegedly certified. If they are not available in the register or the register is not available, the party shall demonstrate this right in the court proceedings. All these amendments aim to improve the legal framework. The main objective to achieve is to increase the legal certainty of immobilisers, as well as third parties. These changes and catastra reform, which is under way, will positively affect the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's balance sheet in business conditions, Duing Business. In the area of registration of property rights, although the Republic of Serbia has progressed two positions in the 2019 report, from 57 to 55, there is plenty of room for progress. The land quality index is 18 of the possible 30. The number of procedures and time needed to enter property rights is the segment in which there is the most room for progress. After the end of the catastra reform, the time needed for enrolment is reduced from the current 21 days to a maximum of five days. Determination of certain provisions of the Law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water cadasar increases the efficiency and urgency of the immovableity catastra and contributes to the simplification and simplification of the registration procedure in the immovableity and water cataster. The provisions specify that this law is further in line with the Law on Electronic Administration with regard to data relating to rightholders to be entered in the cadastre, to allow for greater security of enrolment, as well as further determination of dynamics, the primacy of treatment, as well as the obligation to connect the obligors with the E counter of the Institute, and all on the basis of the observed problems encountered in the implementation of this law so far. Transferring certain public powers from the Office for the Immobilisation Catastrophe to other public authorities and professional users stimulates the emergence of new business entities in that part of the private sector, as well as increased employment. On the other hand, the Immobility Catastrophe Office releases resources for dealing with tasks that are by their nature in their exclusive jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71634	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71635	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed present, the legal arrangement of the building blocks is of paramount importance, primarily in order to protect the property rights of all citizens, but also in order to facilitate the use of their own property in building, investment and any other sense. So the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party support these legal proposals. But in this case, I would also like to point out what is related to this law of special importance, which we meet in the field. In fact, as in some other cases we can pass any good laws, however, unless we make sure that they are applied or if we do not protect their applicability, then as if we do not have good laws. What our experience in the area of Sandzak, the area of Novi Pazar, already spoken of by counterpart Fehratović, as well as Tutina is something that unfortunately cannot be left undetected and something that falls into the common problems of breaking the law, in this case the Law of the Cataster. In particular, in the area of Tutina and Novi Pazar over the past years, we have had very pronounced violations of this law in practice and not only in some ordinary cases, but unfortunately in the case of the Islamic Community. I stress that this is particularly important, especially because for days we have the opportunity to listen and watch everything that is happening in Montenegro and see how sensitive the issue is about religion, and especially issues related to the property of religious communities and churches. In the area of Senica, we have the art of acts of catastra with municipal authorities and certain criminal and other interest structures that have been recorded by the Islamic community's assets on a newly formed, paravesic creation, which calls itself the Islamic Community of Serbia, and without any legal consequences, unfortunately, what they have done remains in force. This is something that is inadmissible primarily from the aspect of the law, but also from the abstract of the political attitude of all those who play a dominant role in this country. True, all of these are the consequences of the behaviour of previous governments that they then decided to deal with the legal, traditional Islamic community that they did not want, as well as the leaders of this community. However, a serious state cannot ignore inherited problems by recording them only to previous governments. The previous governments have already been punished. They've been replaced. Citizens have punished them and, of course, it is not too late, but this authority would have to face the behaviour of previous authorities in this matter, because it is not in the interest of this country, as it is neither in accordance with the Constitution, nor with the laws, that any part of this country, and in particular any citizen or any group of citizens belonging to another national community, other religious community, will be neglected in any way, and in particular be discriminated against. It happened to the Islamic community back then in 2007. The consequences are so far, and I cite this example where the Katastra Service is, most importantly, in Sjenica, then in Tutin, and we have some other examples, abused in dealing with the Islamic community, where the Islamic community of dejura was kidnapped by certain assets. I'm sure it can't survive in perspective by law, but I also believe that this political structure can't and won't agree to it, but no other one who won't accept what we've had on stage so far. We have here from Belgrade certain political views that have read -- for Sandzak's space, which is worse, let them do there in Tutina and Senica whatever they want, let them take their eyes out, whatever we care about, that's their problem, etc. She can't seriously ignore a fire in some part of her, a disease in some part, if her head hurts, she can't be calm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71636	Thank you. The word is from MP Katarina Rakic, who is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71637	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I also want to thank you, Mr Zukorlic, for saying that you will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on registration in Katastar of immovableity and water, and I, as well as the previous speakers, want to call on you to make all that you have said and all the doubts you have to report, because it is not enough just to talk about having heard something, so we will not solve the problem. So let's report it, because I got information from Director Katastra that at this point, there is no procedure that is being conducted against any of the Katastra chiefs in Serbia or any of the officials in Serbia. We can't solve the problem without a report. Here, I can personally tell you, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, write to our committee, the committee will support any case you state to be solved. We have no reason, we have few people in Catastro anyway, it's obvious they're not doing well, because there's not enough of them, and there's little of them, if they're doing what's wrong, let's change something. Also, you said there was an error in the book, something like that can be corrected immediately, the same procedure. You're looking for an annulment of a solution that you suspect is registered by mistake, so send it directly to the second degree, send it to the board, let's talk to specific reports about it, not just talking about it this way, without solving things. Exactly what you said at the outset, we make good laws if they are not implemented and not done by them. Come on, just what you said and let's do. To prove that this government is working, that the Assembly is doing differently, exactly what you said write, you're looking for cancellation, black and white, you're looking for an annulment of that solution that you've stated is a mistake or a criminal record, so let's see, let's think about what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71638	Right on line, MP Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71639	Thank you for giving me a chance to complete this previous exposure. I've had a document here since February 20, 2018, a criminal record. We have received information from the Tax Administration that criminal charges have been filed regarding Katastar in Novi Pazar, abuses and counterfeits that have been made related to the distance of the facilities, i.e. casinos, i.e. bookshops of certain educational and other objects of public importance. So here we have this document, and I'm sure there are similar applications related to the subject I mentioned, related to Tutin and Sjenica, but I'll make sure I get to the documents themselves, because they came to me from the Islamic community and pointed out this problem to me. Here, now a concrete document that I mentioned, we don't have an epilogue we tried to get information, of course we're going to stay consistent, but I'm glad to hear that answer. It is preparedness, because the worst thing is when the objections brought out here are ignored, but I totally agree that we have inherited problems. I just mentioned some. You will have the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party as partners in this, because we see ourselves as mediators between the citizens who elected us, this Parliament, but also the executive authorities, all services, institutions and structures of this country, and we will continue, regardless of whether something is directly in the power of the MP, but 24 hours we are at our disposal. I'm glad you said this to both of you, or your MP group that has the most significant influence here and with which I can make arrangements on this subject. So, I'm counting on these agreements and we're gonna end this whole thing clean and we're gonna get rid of the injustice. I think that's the point. We are here to turn political will together into legal regulations to protect citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71640	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71641	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill with all well-intentioned suggestions from counterpart Jovanovic, which he pointed out today. The reasons for the adoption of the law are essentially the removal of certain shortcomings observed in the current application of the Law on the procedure for enrolment in the Katastar of immovableity and waterways, so that delivery of solutions is introduced in such a way as to make it fast, to be available and to increase legal certainty. Finally, to bring certain provisions of the law in line with other laws which are relevant to the activity of the RGZ. It is important that the problem of Katastra and the legal security of citizens is going in a better direction, as regards quality of service, up-to-dateness, easier communication for rounding the counters and waiting in lines. And this law goes in the right direction, towards improving eGovernment and introducing electronic communications for citizens. Now we have a new term, a new continent of geodetic catastrian information system. If the cadastre is a collection of data on land used for statistical, economic and other purposes for the production of land books and as a basis for taxation of the population, then it is clear how much production and insurance is, through the update of catastra, an important business of general interest to all citizens. It is the right of every citizen to have insight and a clear situation over their property and property rights. As the promoter, Mrs Rakic said, this is the second change within two years, all with the aim of repairing the state of the Geodetic Institute and the accessibility of data to citizens and, to point out, the legal certainty of citizens, which I think is of great importance. In addition to a better and more efficient system, the start of the application of the Decision on the termination of the use of analogue cadastrian plans and maintenance of the Immobility Katastre. The future will be carried out on digital, cadastrian plans. The end of the use of paper-shaped cadastar plans has made a major step in relation to previous decade's practice, the maintenance of the immovableity catalogue and the application of the analog system methodology. The goal is, in any case, better quality, faster and more efficient work. You also mentioned the number of employees at the Geodetic Institute and as someone whose basic idea is social justice, I would draw attention to the burden of employees and the number of cases they are in charge of. And the other thing I would draw attention to, because when I prepare for this debate, I'm talking to people and in my community, and there's one story that there's a lot of talk in smaller municipalities about these cadastrian units being moved to some major centres and cities, and that's again reducing the number of employees, and that's what needs to be taken care of. So, in any case, we support any change that leads to an improvement in the conditions of functioning of this institution itself, of course and accessibility for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71642	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71643	Thank you, Chairman. In view of the public's great interest in today's topic, I will present a brief analysis of the effects of catastra reform since 2018. In fact, by the start of the application of the law, it took more time until July 1st 2018 to solve cases compared to the time needed after the law was applied. Based on the analysis carried out for the first and second quarter of 2018, it was found that in the first quarter a total of 163.151 administrative cases or 91% compared to the number of cases formed, the average time of the case resolution was 7.9 working days. In the second quarter, a total of 129,117 administrative cases were resolved or 84% compared to the number of cases formed, with an average resolution time of 13 working days. Since the entry into force of the law, in the third quarter of 2018, a total of 108,866 administrative cases have been resolved or 65% compared to the number of cases formed, with an average time of resolution of electronic objects being 5.3 working days and an average time of time of solving of items received via the service counter of 11.5 working days. In the fourth quarter of 2018, a total of 121,358 administrative cases were resolved or 68% compared to the number of objects formed, with an average time of resolution of electronic objects being 4.7 working days and an average time of time for solving items received via the service counter 10.6 working days. In 2019, a total of 506.961 administrative subjects were resolved or 73% compared to the number of objects formed, with an average time of resolution of electronic objects being 6.7 working days and an average time of time for solving items received via the service counter 11.1 working day. In their opening statement, the amendment and addition of the Law on the registration procedure of immovableity and water, Ms. Katarina Rakić, but also my colleagues from SNS, Mr. Matic and Mr. Savkić, spoke in detail, explained the proposed amendments and additions to this law. I would like to point out that a large number of experts from relevant institutions and organisations, such as NAED, have also been consulted by representatives of a large number of ministries and other state bodies, including representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance, the Republic of Geodetic Office, the Tax Administration, the Office for Information Technologies for Electronic Administration, as well as representatives of the Chamber of Public Records, lawyers and public executioners, units of local self-government, agents in real estate and other bodies and organisations. Reminders for the sake of this, the catastra reforms have been implemented since 1 July 2018, and as we have heard, this is the second amendment of the Law, the first year of 2019 and the second day. We ask the question, why are these amendments and the additions of the law being carried out? Because we follow the effects and application of the law in practice and because we want the perceived shortcomings, problems and shortcomings to be removed, improved and improved by our legislation, and all in favour of the citizens of Serbia, so that citizens can in as simple, more efficient and faster a way to register their property rights or some other right they have acquired on different grounds. I believe it is necessary to adopt these amendments and additions to the Law, which, apart from real and legal certainty, create conditions that will make life and work easier for both citizens and businesses much easier, as these amendments and additions of the Law will speed up delivery and improve the availability of solutions for citizens, i.e. clients or parties and will increase legal certainty in relation to the finality of the registration. In addition to the above, it will speed up and the process of enrolling in the cadastre will be cheap, which should not be ignored. But, of course, there will be harmonisation and other laws, and above all, I mean the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Law. Finally, by adopting the proposed legislative solutions, which remove the perceived problems in the current practice and which will speed up the entry procedure in the immovableity cadasar, we will also have a positive effect on improving our country's position on the World Bank's balance sheet on business conditions or Duing Business List since the area of enrolment of property rights is also assessed, and I hope that all of us are in the best interest. In voting day we will support, we from SNS MPs, these amendments and bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71644	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71645	I thank you, Chairman. Given that we had one of the most constructive dialogues with mutual respect and understanding of the reasons why certain digressions are highlighted on the bill, I will continue in this spirit to discuss but significantly shorter than what I said today, and given that it is a proposing who has put forward a quality legislative proposal, or a bill that is in any case a matter of respect. This is more now a recommendation to the ministry, as a resolute ministry that should also consider our proposal to do a lot of things in the future to improve the law by quality. First and foremost, the legislator, therefore, would have to form, or systemize, is how to lay down the principles of the procedure before the Immobility Catastrophe Service. One of the basic principles is the principle of the public. What does that mean? This means that everyone has the right to gain insight into public registers and that this principle of the public implies, at the same time, the principle of reliability in the information contained in those public books. However, the legislator did not prescribe anywhere that the principle of public protection in certain cases can also be limited if it imposes interests on the interests of the state, if it is about interests that literally involve data protection or anything that would imply the provision of vital interests and the institutions of the system. What's very important is how to finally ask the question so-called. "wipe lawsuits." I'm talking about a case for erasing data that's listed in the register, or catastra records. If the legislator claims that this law and which we are talking about, which you are proposing, should be a procedural law, that it contains procedural norms governing the procedure, then it is extremely logical that this tendency of the procedural establishment of the law also includes the obligation of the existence of a "widthful suit" that any of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can rise up by suing to delete certain data considered not to be entered in accordance with the law, that they are not correct or in any other way that they should be changed. That it is not just a verdict as an executive title in some other litigation procedure, or even a solution in an outsider procedure and so on. Therefore, it should also be considered in this direction, so that the procedural norms are clear enough. Now, when we talked about those remarks, dear colleague Rakic, I failed to draw your attention to another kind of notation that was to be covered, which is a record of the existence of a contract, but not of a selective contract, but of any kind of contract, because, for example, it was an omitted contract on marital property, i.e. a contract on the share of property between marriage partners. If the contract is present in legal traffic, it shall produce certain legal consequences which may have and what importance unless there are no observations on the contract. Suppose the property should belong to a spouse who has already been registered as the holder of property rights, and the property has the legal nature of the marital property, property acquired during the duration of the marriage, then the existence of the contract must be recorded. It must be standardised and a provision that says – a contract, even a premarital contract, if there is an institutional existence, is systematised, would have to be recorded and covered by remarks under the provisions of this law. The consequences of the lack of notice are not even to be spoken of. They're very, very serious. Therefore, even these kinds of remarks should not be forgotten when it comes to norming what involves covering the notes. Finally, what should be linked, again for whom, if not for lawyers, because they are constantly commented on, when the power of attorney in the process of enrollment of the right to change in the Office of the Immobility Catastrophe, in that sense, the power of attorney should be indicated. Is the pro-legislator a physical person or is the pro-legislator a lawyer in terms of clear legitimacy in front of the body. Why? Because this law is closely linked to the provisions of the Law and to the free legal aid and to the provision of legal services. Because if we are talking about free legal assistance that citizens are entitled to, and the lawyer is obliged to place it, i.e. the obligation to enable citizens as users of legal services, then it is very important that the power of attorney in this procedure is indicated, or defined to ensure that citizens can do so, because they will not be able to abuse their procedural powers after they have been able to charge for something already provided under free legal aid. So, in that direction, it might also be possible to ask the question of that coverage of the notes that we were talking about today, which will certainly have, hopefully, its place in the law in some future, if not in this, in future changes and additions. Once again, support and thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71646	Thank you. The word is from MP Katarina Rakic, who is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71647	I thank you again, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm sorry, once again, that we didn't invite you, that you didn't answer when we were doing the text of the law ourselves, but I guess it would take a long time again, but you made good suggestions for some future draft, or for a new text for the name and addition of the law. What I would just like to point out, as far as transparency itself is concerned, we are fifth in Europe for the transparency of what the Republic Geodetic Institute does, or what it publishes. Of course, and that we had a proposal from the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning, which is data that shouldn't be published. Furthermore, as for some proposals, they certainly come out of the framework of this proposed law and that is in line with what I said at the beginning. As for the observations between the partners, or prenuptial contracts, we may be able to resolve this by amendment to the Committee. I'm just asking you to put together the proposal you want it to be, so maybe we can do it now. If not, everything you've said goes in favor of putting together some new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71648	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71649	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the legislator's intensities in the adoption of the new Law on the procedure of enrolment in the catalogue of immovableity and waterways, which entered into force on 8 June 2018, with amendments and additions, were the introduction of a number of newspapers with the primary goal of making the cadastre become what it was always meant to be – the service of citizens, i.e. no more wasting time in the lines of insight, determination and payment of taxis, the submission of demands, the raising of real estate lists and others. In this context, the introduction of information technologies in almost every segment of the work of the catastra, which has contributed to increased urgency, simpler and faster registration procedures, save time for the parties themselves. The law also prescribed the obligation for public notebooks, public executioners, administration authorities and organisations, that the documents representing the legal basis for enrolment in the catalogue of the service of the immovableity cadastar for the implementation of the change, with the possibility that the parties themselves would submit an application for enrolment via an e-shalter, except in certain cases where it explicitly excluded the law. Such legislation has contributed to an increase in the number of registered properties and rights on them, which has greatly facilitated traffic intervention, bringing to this sensitive area the most important feeling for everyone, which is security. However, the current application of the current law has also produced certain weaknesses, which the proposed amendments and additions are trying to remove. In this context, these changes relate in particular to speeding up delivery, delivery procedures, improving the availability of solutions to parties and increasing legal certainty regarding the finality of enrolment. Namely, the solution so far provided for the procedure for the personal delivery of letters, which in practice meant a very complicated procedure and extended the time limit for delivery, because the delivery service, in the event that the second time did not find the recipient of the letter at the specified address, left a notification of the receipt of the letter in the competent authority within 15 days, and that only during that time period was it considered to have been made, and this type of delivery could have lasted for several months. It is therefore proposed that the deadline of 30 days from the date of public publication is more favourable and leads to the acceleration of delivery. Of course, for such a solution, it is necessary for the Institute to provide a constantly available electronic board, in order for the parties by name and last name, home number or number of solutions to be able to monitor and control the subject at all times. Also, the law treats another anomaly that may occur in the delivery process, which is the situation when delivery was unsuccessful and when parties are forced to seek a copy of the solutions, which also complicated the process, followed by certain costs for the parties. The proposed solution lays down the obligation of the Authority to issue a copy of the solution for information purposes which do not affect the deadlines for submission, nor distorts legal certainty, while allowing the party to become familiar with all the important elements of the solution. It should also point to the fact that the proposed changes on the one hand specify the notes that are recorded in the cadastre, and on the other hand extends the possibility of recording and deleting notes without making a solution in situations where the notation refers to a greater number of immovableities or to the process of composing cultural goods, and to prohibiting estrangement of an object in the legal process. Taking into account these and any other proposed quality changes and additions, I am sure they will contribute to the realization of most of the objectives set that have produced the need to adopt this law, and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will be pleased to support this proposal in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71650	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect you gentlemen from the ruling coalition these days to submit a proposal to amend and supplement the Hunting and Fishing Law, these are priorities. To you, SRS MP Aleksandar Seselj pointed out that the SRS has collected 110,000 signatures of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to abolish the legal order of public perpetrators. However, this Assembly, or majority, did not accept the proposal to at least find the law before the MPs and to discuss it and to respect the 110,000 signatures and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are tormenting because the perpetrators had black-headed them. Over 5,000 apartments and houses have sold you bandits and driven the poor to the street, which has never happened, and you gentlemen know who brought them in 2011, your predecessors. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm hearing a case-saving here when it comes to enrolling immovableity in the public register. So you keep saying if we're fifth or 105th in Europe. It's a question, if you take statistics, so you can see how many pending cases per year, not how many are solved, but how many are unsolved in the first degree, and how many are in the second degree unsolved and whether there are cases that are in front of the authorities for five to ten years without being solved. Ladies and gentlemen, I was asked one parliamentary question a few years ago, how many in the second degree of unsolved art from the catastrophe. Your minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, held 33,000 items in the second degree in the drawer and did not solve them, and many citizens suffered the consequences materially because the Office for the Catastrian and the Ministry of Justice was not effective and was not celery and, of course, damage was done to the great citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only point out that the first land data in Serbia dates back to the period of the Serbian medieval state. These data were recorded in a cadastre, such as many charters, were preserved in monasteries, presenting very important documents on the development of the state of the Republic of Serbia. As the first entry in the southern Serbian province, there was a "Prizren Tapi". Moreover, during the reign of Emperor Dusan from 1346 to 1355, a record of state land was kept on the territory of old Serbia. After the adoption of the first Serbian Constitution in 1835, the Spasovdan Assembly held in Kragujevac, Serbian booklet Milos Obrenovic raised the issue of diameter and land classification, and in 1837 it can be marked as the beginning of the development of geodetic activity in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the first regulations relating to the cadastre were passed in late 1855. They envisioned basic geodetic works and backgrounds, data collection and records of catasters and land in Serbia. These regulations were later changed until 1930 and 1935. However, after World War II, not much attention was paid to the cataster in the Republic of Serbia, and I can tell you that Serbia had in one part the Austro-Hungarian book of land, so the perfection of absolute accuracy was in the land book. Now, that's where the data was entered, and they couldn't have been easily falsified, as they are now falsified into the catastrophe. And a lot of people are supposed to end up in jail, and some of them were in Pancheva a couple of years ago in prison for falsifying certain cases. Of course, what should we do? It needs catastra reform in Serbia. A legitimate question arises – what is the purpose of the proposed law, if you have, gentlemen, in view of the fact that in two, three years, five times the Catastrophe Act is changed? Besides, I'd like to point out, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how old you are that you are now using electronics when it comes to catastra. Therefore, citizens should exercise their right to act in front of the cadastre service, not technically equipped, nor possess technical knowledge for handling the electrical mailbox, which practically prevents the exercise of the rights of those citizens, who, even without an electronic mailbox, cannot now exercise their rights, so all they need to do is go to the immovable cadastre service. I've been a lawyer for thirty-five years. I was leaving for 35 years on a regular basis, and there was never a worse situation in the catastrophe. Here you go, go to the House of immovableity Department in the morning, 50 to 150 you'll see that they're waiting in line, they can't exercise their rights, some faint, they can't wait to be admitted. The legal service in the catastro is zero, zero is flat. It became a boastful service as the earth’s book passed over to them. They're bureaucrats, they don't receive people at a time when they're supposed to receive them, their working hours aren't in line with the law of the state, they're determining working hours whether they're going to work from nine to ten, up to one or two. However, their working hours must be established and done as other state authorities do. There's a lot of crime in that area. You must appoint the director of the Geodetic Service of Serbia. He's the one who's supposed to fly out of there and some of the heads of the station office, because they're responsible for the work of the cadastres and workers who work in the catastros. That's what a colleague from Krupanja was talking about earlier, which I understood very well anyway, and he pointed out some things well. But, gentlemen, when we talk about changing the law, what we're changing, what we bring if we change it in three months, we've had in the past what the Democrats did. The Democrats passed the law, however, changed it and has not yet been applied. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to tycoons, the tycoons have overthrew thousands of acres of pasture villages, and the catastre has helped them to make a change of purpose, so many villages have lost their pastures, and to them it is the right, ladies and gentlemen, to be denied. I asked a parliamentary question when it comes to agricultural land in the state property, which is what the state cadastre needs to take care of. However, the Department of Agriculture hides the data and does not want to answer, because I know when they would give answers to 31 questions I asked to find some in prison. They don't answer, I urinate three times. And why is that? They're hiding who's been given state agricultural land, who's using baseless land, who's using state land, not paying the state. Why the state land is given to certain tycoons and shovels, the dogs, who robbed Serbia, are given to them without any obstacles, but the citizens of what the SRS advocates, that priority and right of cross-referencing must be made possible to individual agricultural producers if we want youth and young people to remain in this country and to deal with agriculture, and there are such. Ladies and gentlemen, this question that has been proposed to resolve the case within five days by electronic means. And what we're going to do about those items that turn themselves in right at the time of the submission, the document is delivered to the catastro at the time of submission, and it's being solved differently, and there's no time limit for it to be solved. If the party has a gift contract, has a buy-in contract, has an inheritance solution, will register it within the same period as you propose for five days. Anything good should be supported. But we don't see a reason justified that in such a short time the law must be changed, and on the other hand I would be happy and happy, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, if you had suggested that the Code of Criminal Procedure be amended. The system law, which is why Serbian citizens suffer terrible damage. Many rights have been lifted for the citizens, because they can no longer take over the prosecution of criminals who commit crimes, and public prosecutors reject criminal charges, and you have no right to take on criminal prosecution. How did the prosecution investigation go? We have crime in the field of the prosecution organisation, because we have now allowed the agreement between lawyers and the party and prosecutors to be concluded and to postpone the fine and to pay 50,000 dinars in some charity fund and not go to jail for five years, and people say there is data that a year takes 5,000 euros. Well, I'll welcome the gentlemen of the ruling coalition to propose an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71652	The word is Katarina Rakić, who proposes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71653	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I will only respond here today to those objections concerning the law that I have proposed, and I am empowered to do so, and as far as any other law and bill proposal and initiatives for new laws are concerned, I cannot speak of it, nor am I authorized, nor is the subject of your agenda today. I'll certainly repeat something I've said several times today, but it's not burned again, because it will certainly be the answer to your questions, but in one we have to agree. The first thing you said was chaos is catastrus, it's crowded, it's turn. There's absolutely nothing I can argue with. That's how it is. Is it worse than ever now, it's subjective now, but again, I agree with you that it's chaos, but why is there a question – well, what do you need the law for? Well, that's exactly what we're trying to fix this mess. I will only return you to what I was talking about when the law was proposed, the interpretation at the beginning, which is that these rows and crowds in the catastrus are being created today because it's a bad delivery of the solutions themselves. So you have a situation that now, and years ago, means since 2009, solutions come to home address and return to mail for 24 hours. So, people usually don't have time, or are able to go to the post office within 24 hours, and today you have mail, I said in every small village. You don't have catastres, and you often conduct a procedure in front of a disaster that may not even be in your town. And what happens to the solution today, yesterday, 10 years ago? So 10 years is the law by which it is created only maybe today is a larger number of objects, so the crowd seems to be bigger. So, after 24 hours, the mail solution goes back to the cadastre. So, what do you have now? You have a situation that a man has received notice that his case is finished. He goes to the post office and says, "No, we brought you back a cadastre." He's going to the cadastre, and in the catastra they tell him, your solution hasn't come back from the post office yet. I'm talking about it because this is 90% of the time. Rarely, any of Serbia's citizens take their decision in the post office, which I have already said, I have much more than catastres. This proposal we made today is that this solution in the post office stands for 15 days. So, you agree, it won't be necessary for citizens to go to the Catastre, to create lines. The second thing, people in the post office when they give them a solution, they have nothing to do with that solution. So that if citizens are dissatisfied with the very text of the solution, they will not be able to create any crowd or chaos in the mail itself, because the solution is not their concern. The second thing, as far as the catastra is concerned, is that the number of employees in the cataster itself is insufficient, and from my story you can see that if a man has gone for a solution and it has not returned from the post office to the cadastre yet, he must come tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and every day to come for his solution, and often in the catastras, it happens that people only have two hours to receive parties. He will receive the same person three, four times because a man will return for his own solution that he does not even know where he is. So I think this is and for the first time is proposed something like this, so the changes that were 2018/2019. the year, i.e. 2019, after the law was passed in 2018, they were not these. I don't know why you have a problem with something I really think will improve the system. You've had your remarks on the director of the catastra again. I say again, it's a great honor for a man to be able to control a system so large with so few workers. You, if you suspect any criminal acts of him, any of the employees, let us know that we, don't say a word just black on white, write down, help us too, help the citizens of Serbia. I couldn't agree more. As far as I was concerned, I mentioned transparency a little while ago, so Serbia is the fifth in the world, the first in Europe for the transparency of the data found in the catastro. There, so, I don't know if I left anything out, and I'm saying I won't comment on the laws that aren't on the agenda today, to which you've stood in the spirit of your struggle for the story, the gentleman who was your authorised representative of the group. So I personally think that all of these proposals that are on the agenda today certainly contribute to reducing the chaos that we have agreed together to exist in the catastro, but what the difference between you and we are, is that we are trying to solve this mess, and you are talking about it and saying that solutions that have not yet started to apply are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71654	Thank you. Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71655	Mrs. Rakic, why don't you here provide penalties for those who do not perform their duties in a safe, responsible manner, but not what is proposed, what exists in the law? Why didn't you make those who work in the catastrophe responsible? They have no responsibility. You tell stories like that for those people who don't know what a catastre and those people who don't know first of all aren't in practice. I can appreciate people here for law schools, I can appreciate people here with experience in the area of law enforcement, Nedjo Jovanovic, Mr. Komlenski, who can tell you that the problems in the cataster have accumulated to the point that they have to be solved. You have a great failure to make them responsible, they have no responsibilities, no one calls them to account. You replace five elders, the Office of the Real Estates, conduct analysis, send control, inspection, and then you'll see if the director is your real violin, your pet. Well, then you'll see if he's responding to his mission and to the state, and the state asks him to be responsible and that the state be protected and that crime, thieving and riding are prevented. Now, when you do, bring the law, take measures, you have inspection services, you have control, give statistics, give analysts, and tell the citizens. But don't, please, I respect all of what you have and suggested this bill, I'm just saying, when it comes to the remarks of some, however, in the other part you didn't have the need for that, absolutely. Therefore, Mrs. Rakic, you are not in the field. (President: I thank you. You did not spend days and months in Catastra, such as many, such as not where the doctors of medicine are.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71656	Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71657	I did have a dear colleague who spent days in Catastro trying to solve problems and believe me, I know exactly what I'm talking about, that I'm not speaking in my head at all. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, I was the first to introduce criminal provisions and on all working groups, all members will confirm to you that I have always fought for shorter deadlines and shorter penalties, that punishment, especially for people in the Catastro that is prescribed, is not motivated by law. You can look at the other text of the law, the penalties are maximum. We don't have a dilemma here at all. That's why I'm calling you all the time, come on, if you have anything concrete to report. Don’t talk about it here, “one man told me. ” Please, so I'm the first to have everything... Because we're trying to build a system. The second thing you mentioned earlier, which is that the Ministry didn't want to solve the problem that happened in the second degree. You're wrong. That's what I said just before, in the first opening discussion. So, as for the second degree, when we tried 2016 to put an end to this problem, we came to the point that we even had suggestions to put an end to the second degree. It means that there is no two-stage, but that Katastra's appeals are immediately brought to court. You know that in the first procedure, it's not allowed, that every administrative solution must have two degrees and then it's decided to make a cut. Those items that have been handed over by who knows when, because you know for a fact that the problem of the second step has not happened today or yesterday, or in 2016, means 26,500 items that were found on that 1.1.2016, at that time in the Ministry, have been transferred to the second level of Katastre, and has been formed by a team that dealt with only problem-solving, i.e. by 2016, and all these problems have been solved by 2018, we no longer have any lagging objects in the second degree, and that may be information that you do not have, you have that information of chaos and unresolved things left, but you have no information that people have solved 26,500 cases left behind who know since, until 2016. Those items are no longer in the second degree. What did we do then, too? We introduced one provision that said that the time limit for solving cases at the second degree is 45 days. Also, the second degree in the retrial corresponds metrically, which means that the cases will no longer be returned a hundred times, as they were before, will not be accumulated, and on the other hand we do not have those backlogs that have been there for hundreds of years. I think this is one huge plus, you can't say no one's ever done anything about it. Not that nobody's ever done anything, but it's solved something that nobody's done in decades. Well, I think I helped make things a little bit clearer for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71658	Right on line, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71659	Mrs. Rakic, I expect Professor Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic learns what is the administrative procedure and what is being solved in the first, when it is being solved in the first, and when it is being solved in the second degree. Mrs. Rakic, can you tell us how many cases are pending in legalization, but give the number, by municipalities and by the services of the Catastrians. Second, how many pending cases there are in law enforcement. How many cases are pending in the second degree in catastrian services and regions? You need to get that information out for the public. I do not dispute, because radicals have time-consumingly pointed to the criminal behaviour of the predecessor, before you, who have neglected the administrative procedure in relation to the second-degree resolution, according to the citizens' appeal. On the other hand, you cannot take away the right of a citizen to make a complaint in the second degree, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 36 provides that everyone has the right to appeal or object to a decision which is being decided on his right, etc. So, you keep avoiding the data, what about Kaludierica, please, can you tell us how many cases are not solved, what I mentioned, not to repeat. Legalization and legislation. Second, can you tell me what the working time of the catastra is? The parties shall not be admitted as they are received by other national authorities. There's red tape, you don't defend that bureaucracy. It's harmful, the Progressive Foreigner. If you're defending bureaucracy in Catastro, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71660	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is proposed by MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71661	I'm sorry, we don't seem to be hearing from each other. I say one thing, and you repeat after me, but it's like I didn't say it. I don't know how you understood from my speech that I said there was no second degree. I didn't say that for a moment. Here I repeat, for the third time today, and the proposal in 2016, one of the proposals was to be abolished, but the Law on Administrative Procedure does not allow it. There must be two degrees and all objects have been transferred to the RGZ, the second degree, which exists today, which has always existed. I don't know why we have a dilemma here, and why you just said that I said something that doesn't stand, you can take out the stenographic notes, and for the second time today I'm saying it, but all in favor of these problems, these other items, that the problem of this chaos is being solved. I will repeat this once again, of course there is a second degree, there will always be, but what has been changed, it certainly goes in favour of the citizens of Serbia, that you can't make a complaint to the second degree infinitely many times, only twice, after which you go to court. It's a metric solution to which Katastre in the second degree, and before, had the right to respond metrically. He can respond from the first time in a metric way, if he thinks the lawsuit was totally wrong at the first degree. So, basically, colleagues, I don't know if you can't hear me up there or what it's about, but you're really saying something I didn't say. As far as the first-degree case is concerned, in the cities of Serbia you can get it, refer the request to the Committee, and we'll deliver the RGZ, and that's also transparent data, I don't know if they might already have it posted on the site, because I said, the service works transparently, so it can't be the aggregated data. Such information is obtained by cities in Serbia and by what you are particularly interested in. When you're talking, I just didn't understand you, the legislation and the legalization, whether you mean solutions or the booking of these objects, because the solutions don't bring in Katastar, just to repeat. Catastar only records the solutions made by another body. So, if that's what you're interested in, we as a committee can give you exactly in every city, every municipality in Serbia, because that's not information that's secret at any moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71662	Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71664	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I will say a few words about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure of immovableity and water. Before I start the discussion, about the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Design, I must say that the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the catalogue of immovableity and waterways, which was definitely the turning point in the reform of the cadastre and the simplification of the very process of enrollment in the cadastre, which certainly results, among other things, in attracting investment in our country. Therefore, since the adoption of that law, it is sufficient time for previous legal provisions to be tested in practice and to conclude in which direction changes and additions should be made further, as we have done and here we are now doing the same to further define certain concepts of the law, improve, or improve and predict new solutions. The general view is that the process of enrollment in the immovableity cadastre certainly works much better than before the reform, but that some solutions in the law itself have not proved to be optimal, of course we will bring changes and additions to overcome the problems that have arisen. The Serbian Progressive Party has never run away from problems and responsibilities, and we are aware that the status quo does not lead to a solution to the problem, nor does it achieve the desired goals. Since the observed shortcomings in practice can only be corrected by legal solutions, surely the only way to adopt changes to this law is to correct them. The aim of this law is to speed up the process of enrollment in the immovableity cadasar, as well as to increase the legal certainty of parties in the process of enrolment in the cadastre. Serbia is now thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, who invests enormous work and energy, a country that has not only a stable political situation, but also has a stable budget and that is why we are already very much preparing for major infrastructure projects. Given that the Serbian market has been recording the trend of growth in recent years and that the construction sector is recording a significantly greater share of GDP in Serbia, it is our task to follow all these laws and create preconditions for even greater and more significant investments. In previous practice, the problems identified in the application of this law were related to the delivery of solutions and other acts brought into the process of enrolment in the cadastre, and therefore there was a need for systemic change through amendments and additions to the existing law, which will aim to regulate the delivery process, which will significantly speed up the process of enrolment in the cadastre as the parties will make the entry solution easier and more transparent. Therefore, there will be no longer any problem in determining the day when the solution becomes finally a prerequisite for taking into account the next item relating to the same immovableity. The inflow of investments in addition to economic importance also suggests that the country has certain perfomansions and perspectives. Unfortunately, during the government run by the DS economy, Serbia was destroyed and the country was destroyed, citizens were left without work, without bread, without hope and perspective. Many previous years have been done, and we are aware that our country cannot be richer immediately, but it can certainly be more orderly and just and, to that end, new laws and amendments to the additions of the existing ones are passed. As for Serbia, investment is the basis for economic growth, technological progress, competitiveness, exports, employment and income, I am sure that the proposed solutions will have a direct positive effect on investors, companies, entrepreneurs, as well as on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Looking at the comprehensive effects of this SNS law will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71665	Thank you, Dr. Krivokopic. Now the word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Rakic, our basics differ from yours and you are allowed to praise so far legal solutions, as well as what you suggest changes and additions. I don't think you have an understanding with an authorised representative of the SRS. It is not disputed your right as a MP to submit amendments and additions to this law, but rather we have talked about a different treatment and attitude of this home towards the citizens of Serbia. That's what I'm gonna say later. This is not saying that it will not lead to some changes that may also have direct benefits for the citizens of Serbia. If anything, you favor it and even say that here it is trying to strengthen the principle of efficiency and economics. We should not slave to these principles and principles if the essence and content of what we will have with this bill does not satisfy the needs of Serbian citizens, or solves accumulated problems. I am absolutely sure that such changes and additions of laws cannot solve the many problems facing Serbian citizens and also the Republic Geodetic Institute. A colleague, Matic, pointed out that a small number of people set up one dilemma when he presented the exact number of employees at the Republic Geodetic Institute and said if it was enough, so he said it wasn't. And there are certain problems. What you call reform in the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is a special organisation of the Republic of Serbia doing state affairs, if that's the level of problems with the number of employees, and what do you think is the situation in some smaller municipalities? In the past, some of the services had 11, 12, 13, 15 employees, and now it goes to one, two or three. We've been looking at the internal organization of this Republic Geodetic Institute, and we've seen that there are six sectors, of course, with different obligations, departments, service for the immovable cadasar. There may be the biggest problem. The services have now retained positions that have city status, while in smaller municipalities it has fallen to the level of section, group, and it is announced that it will be counters. Shalters in which, by organization, the hierarchy tells employees there that they are not allowed to receive parties. Then there will be some problems. I can tell you at least ten places in Serbia where after working time, working hours, in municipalities, in courts, in health homes, you have no one left to see or very few of those citizens. This has to be taken into account and this government has to raise it to the level of strategy, to the level of principle or principle, what it wants with small environments. There are already some state institutions in smaller places. We had a reorganisation of the judiciary, it was in 2009 and beyond, and you can say later, we can only talk about this law that's on the agenda and you're right, but we need to talk about the lives of citizens who are both then and tomorrow and for centuries to stay where they are now. Some of the measures that the government will take, if we make the wrong choice now, in the treatment of some kind of disease, will not give any effect, and the cost will be ours. And what can often be resented by a catastrous employee? Because there's been a lot of unsettled problems or objects from before, and they're now starting to solve them. Which would say Colloquial, they don't lift their heads off that object. But the user, a citizen who had the need to come to the Catastre, did not solve his problem. He doesn't see those eight hours effectively spent or perhaps seven and a half or seven, where there's really nothing to blame the employee, he sees that his problem isn't solved. I'm talking about better examples, more positive examples. Surely there are examples that do not do their job the way they should and do not have a grain of responsibility. You know there's now an obligation for employees to record that they are there, and it's not a measurable result of the work. Then those who are both professional and ready and want to change things are destabilised. We here as an epochal discovery of this bill said that it could no longer happen that the party went twice, tried to hand him a written, solution, so he wasn't home, so he returned to the post office, and then he was obliged within 24 hours to report there to take over. Who made that up? Is that God's will, God's principle? It's not. Any kind of act regulated? Well, that was completely pointless. As it now makes sense to extend that deadline to a reasonable one. And otherwise the deadlines should be reasonable. Now, reasonable deadlines in Serbia contain both objectively and subjectively. For me, it can be reasonable to run a path at some time, for my colleague Mircic needs more or less, it is now something that can be guided by a polemic which is reasonable, which is the money there and which may require running. I'm not talking about it that way here, but we really want to make a contribution to the quality of this debate, with a desire for the citizens of Serbia to feel some improvement. Every citizen, and I as a national MP, a representative of Serbia's citizens, has been struck a little when you say - e, you need 126, so that you can put some of your proposals on the agenda. Well, show good faith, but not to the MPs of the SRS, but to the citizens of Serbia. You know well that we had another law, I wouldn't even mention it now, because our wish was to solve it in such a way, one other law based also on a number of signatures collected, entered the procedure, and it was called some names. As a graduate lawyer, I'm not in favor of the law having any personal names, because it's completely unnecessary and it doesn't matter now. The law did not enter into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia with that name, but this SRS proposal to join amendments to the Security and Enforcement Act had to be accepted here as a proposal, and later, whether it would encounter 126 MPs, support from 126 MPs or not, that is the second question. One more thing, if Serbian citizens know what can be very easy, you say here -- they don't have to go even to the cadastre, in an explanation, but that all the work related to enrollment of the right to immobility ends up going to public notebooks. Now, that's great, pal. In public notebooks, it's kind of a rank as an executor. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the citizens of Serbia say and they're quite right when they say it. And you know what they're right about -- taxis or fees they have to pay. Still, what a citizen should pay with state authorities is cheaper, I would say, somewhat more economically than it is with these authorities that are set aside from Serbia's justice system. I talk about it very often. One day it'll probably be a rumor to understand, that we're changing our legal system. I am pleased that my colleague Komlenski, right here in front of you, said that we should review both the network of courts and when you call on "Duing Business List", so that's some economic success, the International Bank said, that is, the World Bank, and it's making some order from one to 190 and they have some issues to solve, so that's what they're assessing. But here we should bear in mind that life is not going on, that I am not misunderstood by citizens who live in these several major places that I will mention, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, there is no life in Serbia only in these places, Serbian citizens live both in Varna and in Ljudice and in Cranca and in Vrhpolje and in many other places. You should take care of them, too. You said you were open to co-operation, that you wanted to do it, that there was no problem, that we were going to change the walk of legal regulations. Laws are a serious matter. You said – I support that you did an analysis of the effects after implementing a certain law. We must always keep that in mind. The law is what we bring, what the MPs bring and what is possible... but it should always be seen the consequences of any law, before we proclaim it here, what consequences it has for the citizens of Serbia, make sense and citizens only support what leads to some progress and what creates better conditions for their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71667	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you, too, Mr. Perry. A lot of things you've been talking about are exactly the same way, in the same direction, and we don't seem to understand each other. As for the first thing you mentioned, and it relates to the system of economics and efficiency, you said you shouldn't always go towards something as fast and efficient as possible if it changes the essence. What has been proposed by this amendment and by supplementing the law is only the way in which a particular solution will be delivered to citizens. So it doesn't change the essence. We don't change a single member of the law. We're changing ways for citizens to... So that's that part of efficiency, and I think exactly what you said in the end. Citizens will not have to come to Belgrade, let's say, if it's from Belgrade or from a city in Serbia, they won't have to pick it up to Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, but will arrive at their post office in his village and be there for 15 days. So he won't have to go into town. So we're just doing with this proposal what you really want, and we don't seem to understand each other. So the principle of efficiency and economics applies only to the delivery of mail, not to the solution. We can't influence what it says, we can only influence trying to reduce the crowds. We also agree there, absolutely, and it doesn't matter if there's a small Catastre in Serbia or if it's a larger centre. There's traffic everywhere. So we can agree absolutely there, there's chaos everywhere, there's crowds everywhere, there's workers in Catastro all over the place, there's few of them, they can't make it. There's absolutely no dilemma. It's just, all the changes, every change that's been made to this law is just about to help clean up this mess. What you mentioned was that someone had planned to close the cadastres, less centres, that's not accurate information, that came out of the period when there was a strike in the RGZ and that's when that story came out, and I, here, have to deny something like that. So we've got very, very little catastres anyway, so any closure of any catastra department would still lead to a worse situation. There's absolutely no right situation. In addition to that, I can say that it's almost open in the municipality of the Rakovica Shater of the Republic Geodetic Institute, so I can't agree with you, you probably have that old information left. You also told me about your employees to record their arrival and to go to work with a card without the result being measurable. The result is precisely quantifiable by the number of specific objects. So that's what their result is, it can't be measured differently, it's not the machine, it's to measure what they're doing. So the number of cases handed over relative to the number of cases that were solved, that's the result. I received information that there are results for all of Serbia, or for all of Serbia, that is, how many items have been submitted, how many cases have been done, everything is on the website of the Republic Geodesy Institute, so that you can enter this information at any time and look at exactly what you are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71669	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. The right to replica has Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71670	It's a general place, when I was talking about some principles like economics, efficiency, and what do you get? The very consequences of this bill are more makeup than the essence. You're telling me now, colleague, that I didn't see right. I was in one section, I think that's what they're called, in one section, and it used to be 13 employees. Now with one loaned from another department, there's four. People are doing their best to meet citizens, to give the best possible solutions and to respond to the demands of Serbian citizens, but it is not worth it, their powers have been reduced. I didn't show up to them as surveillance or some kind of audit, but I saw exactly what was measured, what was daggered, what was fundamental to their monthly earnings – only spent time. There's no problem, because they really work responsibly, but it shouldn't be in large monasteries, where I'm absolutely sure it's not the same burden, I'll say, conditionally, and in Rakovica. In Rakovica and some other places. It will appear in the Belgrade area, I suppose, where you used to work, in Greece, to solve these problems that are present, known to almost every citizen of Serbia, in Kaludjerica. A much larger number will likely be needed there than in some other environments, rather than in New Belgrade. I'm conditional on saying this, I'm not sure it's like this. And we will rewrite and accept and adopt some EU standards, where some things are completely resolved in a different way. We already have a problem with health care, because there must be one doctor in us, and I don't know what number of patients, like in some other countries. We can't even get all the places in Serbia. I don't think that's right. It is not your question now as the legislator of this law, but as the MP who supports this government, it certainly is. We need to see what we can do about it. He said, I can't think of any of the MPs now, when it comes to the desert procedure, so how much abuse do we have here? How long has this been going on? Abuses in the sense that someone who is to be an heir has an inheritance right will not report the address at which he is located because he is not in good relations with his relatives and the like. These are now difficult circumstances for a professional and professional man to resolve it in the right way. We've got a lot of land that we don't know who the owners are, because we don't do the procedure until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71671	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Katarina Rakic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71672	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry to hear that this bill that we've really worked on is not just me, but a lot of experts. I'm sorry to hear from you that they're just cosmetics. So you can also say that then amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction were the same cosmetic nature. Here, these laws, that is, all these amendments to the law, have led to today's 53,642 construction sites in Serbia, that 2,410 building permits were issued only in October last year. So it can never be cosmetic data. Statistics are very clear, the data that speak is very clear, and besides, you can see for yourself how they progress, I mean, you can look for yourself, here, at least the street of Prince Milos. Go through, and you'll see for yourself how many sites there are. What you're talking about right now has nothing to do with Catastre. I repeat, Katastar only records the solutions. It does not bring up the Catastar solutions to the legacy and what you have already mentioned. The cadastar is a register. The solutions are brought by another organ, Katastar is implementing it, so we may have a little bit of a mix-up of terms or data here, but I find that strange of you. So I'm simply saying, I'm sorry that in this way we say something that really aims to simplify and improve the work of Katastra which, we all agreed, there are very few workers, that workers are missing, that they do not work effectively, that the crowds are catastrophic, they stand still and now that we have one bill of law that really needs to help in a lot of efficiency and that first of all, to dissipate these crowds. How many cases do you have that a man who has come for his solution, who has not yet arrived, who has returned, say, from the post office to Katastar, has not yet arrived in Katastar, and now you have to say that a man has gone to Katastre three times and spent only five minutes employed in Qatar explaining where his solution is, and you have ten of those today? So, the man spent only two hours employed in Catastra, only two hours explaining to the citizen that he doesn't know where his solution is, because his solution hasn't yet come back from the post office to Katastra. Now we'll have a situation like this in the post office. So, first of all, the citizens won't have to come to Katastra at all because his solution will be in the post office for 15 days, the citizens will be able to go and take over it in 15 days. Just when we imagine and tell the whole situation, we see that we have one solution that can't be cosmetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71673	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. Happy Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71674	My colleague Rakic, you are not taking the best examples to explain. You say and I can't mathematically argue with you, you say if one party comes in and spends five minutes to explain this one, it comes in ten, it's 50 minutes. The post office and Katastar and this National Assembly and the President of the Republic are here because of the citizens of Serbia, and it is not the other way around. They have colleagues here who are baptized. I recommend, have liturgies on Sundays, have other holidays, so it wouldn't be bad for them to go there a little to pray to God. This is where we debate, where we talk about bill proposals, we vote for them, so we don't need to. Doesn't anyone have the right to state their position? I am quite sure that I comment more professionally, because my basic calling and occupation, what I am now, and it was 30 years ago and more than 30 years ago, and for some I'm not sure that what we met was what was their profession and what was today and what was on the other hand just to point out that people who have been educated all their lives are extremely appreciated and respected. Those who come to these diplomas and some academic and similar titles, that's something else. That's what I think they should be ashamed of themselves sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71675	Thank you. The word is Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71676	Dear Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at first I would like to commend and support the proposal by my colleague Rakic, given that all that has been put forward in this bill is directly aimed at improving and increasing the quality of the existing law. It is clear that during two years, or as long as it has passed, certain problems have been identified and the best possible solutions have been given at this time. What everyone in Serbia knows, I know, too, of course, is that there is no family that anyone in that family didn't have to, maybe the stupid word had to, or that he wasn't going to the Catastre and that he wasn't going to leave in the next period. We all know what is left behind, and we know how important it is to us what we inherited, which from generation to generation passes and comes to this time in which we now live. For this very reason, this law should help to ensure that what the catastre is doing is just presented, that is, done in the best possible way, the most efficient, and most importantly, the most suitable for citizens. All these laws, of course, and this bill, are certainly directed in only one direction, and that is the direction to make Serbia's citizens better. It is not the EU law, it is not the law of Katarina Rakic, but it is the draft law by Katarina Rakic, which will certainly contribute to improving the work of the catastra. If we take the example of just what the colleague mentioned, and that's the situation that if we come to a catastrus where 50 people stand in line, we assume that only 15 had the possibility, and probably more, given the development of digitisation and electronic administration, that only 15 people had the opportunity to do their job electronically, that the ranks would be, of course, smaller. What we expect in the next period is that in this spirit all jobs are developed so that one day a very small number of people end up on tents of catasters. The problems are also solved as an institution that will have to move forward with time and in step with the time that is currently being built by Serbia, Serbia which is increasing its capacity on a daily basis and Serbia which, indeed, is data, I will repeat it once again, 53,642 construction sites at this point in Serbia, in Serbia which in 2012, was almost standing, in which there was no, not that there was no construction site, but there were no plans, and there was no realisation that we were not talking about. Perhaps, I am not going to use the word perhaps, I am sure that this law and all these laws that go through the filter of this Assembly will simply achieve their goal, and the goal is that the cadastre as a cadastre, as an institution, will be at the service of the citizens and we will get as high as possible, as quickly as possible, and most importantly, the most honest judgment, or fair possible outcome. Strengthening the cadastre for the result is a strengthening of justice, and in the interest of justice, I support the proposal by my colleague Rakic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71677	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Miricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71678	What the SRS points to is that it's a little strange how this addition of the law came to the agenda, and we've brought it out, not because it's the opposite of the Rules of Procedure, but because in the last few sessions, things have happened that in the past four years, have not happened, that individuals have submitted amendments and amendments to the law and that this is being adopted, that there's an explanation here, because there are 126 MPs. On the other hand, Serbia's citizens' initiative, which is largely much larger than it means by the Rules of Procedure, is not on the agenda. There's an explanation - when you have 126 MPs, then come in. It is, in fact, the essence of seeing democracy and parliamentary life. As long as you don't have 126, you don't have any right, when you have 126, they belong to you all rights, uncut, and even the other side, and that you forbid, that you don't care what he proposes, what those citizens who didn't vote for you, what they think, you don't care, you have 126. Only one thing can't get out of sight, many have had that logic of things, they're over quickly. You see how they are now in the tracks. We're patient, we're waiting, we're just watching you ignore the initiative around the executioner. A hundred thousand citizens signed, supported the initiative, at least if you tried to put it on the agenda, you're not interested, and here you're interested in solving these same citizens, and what a significant problem, it's a book in a catalogue of their property, real estate. Well, isn't it minors in both levels and both, and when it comes to the books of that property and when it comes to the preservation of that property? We're witnessing that when it comes to notes, when it comes to real estate status, there's everything and everything. You have cases, where banks that lend mortgage loans take their right to, against the law, make notes on assets that are not the subject of a mortgage. And it's quite clear that in this way he's trying to solve that problem. But on the other hand, you have a situation where the perpetrators on the orders of these banks are throwing out the disabled and the disabled and the old and the children. Well, isn't that on the same level? What difference does it make between citizens who have suffered damage in one way or another? We watch it every day. We insist on Serbian radicals to discuss it, to say that the perpetrators are something that is a parasite on the body, to the body of an entire system that works in Serbia. But what does that mean when we don't have 126? Maybe the citizens will understand that one day we should have 126, so we can discuss not only this law on perpetrators, but also other laws. It's not in your amanet, so you're going to have a 126 now and then. But the perpetrators will be debated, and they will have to be debated in parliament, because we can no longer see these torments of Serbian citizens. That's not worthy of a man. What they do to people, it's terrible. The wheelchair is taken away from them to compensate for the part relating to their obligations or possibly any damage. It's out of your mind. What kind of world do you live in? We're discussing a disaster here and you're saying that the business list is one of the important facts. Well, I guess it's regulation of that so-called. Wild construction is the most important thing in this country. Well, that's how you started this term. Remember the Secretary of Resolute what he said, that he would solve all the problems that are related to wild construction. This is one way to solve that problem. What level is he on? Where you started, there was still wild construction. You didn't lift a finger. You have statistics and nothing else. Wild construction was largely due to the fact that those who did not have, those who were poorer, had to, in a scheme of circumstances, make them make a roof over their heads. They can't buy themselves an apartment. Those who are rich are also involved. You can't touch them, you can't look at them, you can't touch them. It is that in front of TV cameras you are breast-feeding, you say – we can say every name and one that no one has dared until now, but when it comes to realization you are not something brave. When it comes to poor people, when it comes to what's most important, when it comes to wild construction and solving housing problems, there's always a solution. Here you have the solution to make them suffer and to increase theirs even more and how hopelessly you are. We Serbian radicals have nothing against corruption. We're in, but decide once to prevent that corruption. You're looking at the clerks to find corrupt personalities, so you're being corrupted by individuals in the government. You can't write when it comes to members of the government, you can't touch them. You have witnesses, you have evidence, you have silence. What are you hoping for? The election will come, it will change. Nothing's gonna change. It will change the day Serbia realizes that someone else should have 126, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71679	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71680	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to Mr. Mircic and from everything he said, and he said very little about the very bill that's on the agenda today, so from that little he said, I concluded that he agrees with this proposal, and I'm very happy about it. Everything he said about legalization and the perpetrators and everything else really has nothing to do with the bill that's on the agenda today, and I don't want to comment on it. I repeat, I listened carefully, and from that little part of it, I concluded that he supports what's on the agenda today, and I thank him not for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71681	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71682	With the same right and the same way I want to respect your 126, how you and how you respect over 100,000 citizens who signed the initiative to discuss the perpetrators in the Assembly. Don't interpret what anyone supports. When you support the discussion of the Executors Act, then we will discuss this law that is now meaningless anyway. It's the end of the term, it's completely pointless. Makes no sense in the sense that he's urgent, urgent, no use at all. You won't handle it. You haven't fought corruption in eight years. You're the man who was in custody by yesterday, at the ministry, on the front page waiting for him, the resolute minister, the minority as a hero appears, suspected of bribery, for corruption, for illegality, there he is back at work. Who are you talking to? With the same right and the same way we treat your proposals as you treat the citizens of Serbia who voted for the SRS, and previously signed this initiative for the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71683	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the right of every MP to propose a law and refer it to the assembly procedure. The possibility of citizens also signing bill proposals has been foreseen. I'm talking about proposals, but there's some procedure in the National Assembly, and that's, when it's a regular session, 126 of those MPs who are going to put it on the agenda, and right now we're in an emergency session, so it doesn't take so much, 84, quite enough for you to propose the law. The Assembly is working on an established agenda. So most can't change your agenda. He can't. Not cooperating between the opposition parliamentary groups and the former regime is not my problem on these technical issues. You don't have to cooperate politically, and I understand completely why you wouldn't do it. A story famous for fighting corruption, and some examples are cited. My colleagues keep forgetting there's an assumption of innocence, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. The fight against corruption cannot be based on individual cases, but must be based on system solutions, to reduce the possibility of anyone accomplishing any corrupt action. You can't always eliminate it, but you can narrow it down to one measure that's acceptable to society. If we deal with individual cases, that basic problem, which is a systemic solution, we will not find and always corruption in one form or another will be sufficiently pronounced to be harmful to society as a whole. I've heard a lot of discussions, so they say we can't have a Duing Business List to determine the quality of life in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that it's nothing that we're on the Duing Business List, Serbia has progressed. I accept that, but to be honest enough who said that. If by any chance we'd fallen on that list, their mouth would be this big, why did you fall? (Alexander Seselj: How much? This size. You would have attacked Alexander Vukic and the SNS as much as we should have, but it's not a problem. The fact that you're the ninth in the world, the first in Europe, that doesn't count, so we'll continue to banalize things about it and talk. Now imagine this, the Republic Geodetic Institute is conducting a legacy procedure. That's when I crossed my mind when I heard it. If that's what the lawyer says, I really don't know how he came to that conclusion. I guess that's what the desert court is doing, so there's some desert debate, so the court takes a decision, whether someone's satisfied with the solution or not, it's at some point going to become a forceful one, and then puts it in the motion box, that property, on the basis of the court's verdict or decision, the Republic Geodetic Institute enrolls it. (The MPs of the SRS release the guzzles on their cell phone. ( ) Those who swallow can and can be baptized, that is their problem, since their discussions are obviously so. Now, look at this, so that was the first thing I crossed myself for, and there's a few more. The next discussion was like this. Imagine that the procedure in front of the Republic Geodetic Institute is being initiated by the notary, and that notary is the same as the private contractor, so it is not normal to do so and better to do so by the state, because the state will charge less.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71685	Excuse me, colleague Arsic. I'm asking my colleagues to shut down and ask us to get a colleague, Arsic, so he can contact his citizens and colleagues normally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71686	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71687	I must protect you, colleague Arsic, we sit side by side here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71688	A colleague, Marinkovic, shows only domestic education, how they were brought up by young people in their family. I just feel sorry for their children if they're raised like they are now. (The MPs of the SRS release the guzzles on their cell phone. We have one more thing to say is illogical, because if a parent wants to give something to a child, any immovableity he has, he can't do it without a document that isn't certified under the Prescription Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71689	Comrade Arsic, excuse me, please. Comrade, please turn off your phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71690	He can't do that unless there's a document that's been certified in accordance with a special law that regulates it. This document confirms the notary. So, it was better to verify with the court verifyer, which doesn't essentially go into whether the document is correct or not, so maybe you're confirming it completely unnecessary, because it's legally invalid, and then you have to go to the Republic Real Estate Catalogue, wait in line again to hand over that document to someone to tell you that it's not right and that they can't execute the immovable traffic. Such solutions are advocated when they attack these legal solutions that exist. Not to tell you what it was, any other illogicalities. The Republic Geodetic Institute is acting in the second instance in relation to the solutions issued by certain units of the Republic Geodetic Institute and therefore has special commissions. It is true when fellow MPs say something hasn't even been solved in years. Do you know why? Because she always had some favor to do. He doesn't have to now. It's solved as per the date of submission. There is no longer a great delay, and all new items are resolved under the Administrative Procedure Act within 30 days. So what's the issue now? That's how systemic corruption is solved. Not to tell you what was in the ministry that was responsible for conducting second-degree proceedings. Let's say one unknown matter that legalisation, the issue of construction permits, work on local self-government, based on trusted powers given by the Republic of Serbia, but supervision is being carried out by the competent ministry in the second degree by the competent ministry. But the problem is with colleagues, when something attacks that, not even those basic things about the transfer or trust of the Republic's affairs, they don't know. It was true that many of the items before 2012, I know even some state secretaries personally, were held in drawers and asked the person in the process of money to exercise their right to the solution of the first-degree body. When I asked -- why don't you report it to the police, it's always been -- well, you know what I don't trust. That was before 2012. Now they also reported that the decisions on their complaints were resolved and that no one asked for anything. But I'm saying these are individual cases. I don't want to deal with individual cases. This solves what is fundamental, which is that one procedure, which is conducted, is managed in front of some authorities, state or other bodies entrusted with public authority, is shortened and it is reduced to several parts and becomes more efficient. You know, as the proposer, Mrs Katarina Rakic, said earlier the solution traveled from mail to the publisher of the solution, so the citizen had to wait several times on the counter to see where his solution is, where his solution lies, what about it, etc. Today, we solve it by extending the deadlines. If it is not delivered in the first attempt, it will be made available to the nearest public postal operator exposure. Another way is to hand him that electronic solution. Now I don't even see what the problem is. Now someone's going to say -- well, not all citizens have a computer, not all citizens have an electronic mailbox. I agree. That's why there's still a counter, there's still paper, it's still going to be handed to him in the way he thinks is best, but according to some of the opposition, it's best that we live in the time of Pera's scribe from "Mrs. Zivka Minister", in Nusic's time, that there must be some paper missing. They would also love those who are full of mouths if they were anti-corruption fighters with their political actions, by trying to slow down changes in the Republic of Serbia create conditions for corruption. So, in most cases, there are no more counters, and in most cases you won't be missing one piece of paper, in most cases the process starts a notary, which has to verify your signature, you're just waiting for a solution. I don't know what the problem is then, people? What's the problem? In that some of your laws weren't on the agenda? Well, you have every right to be angry, but you have no right to freeze Serbia. You laughed here at Prime Minister Ana Brnabic when she said she wanted to make Serbia a modern, democratic society and that electronic business in state bodies would be an opportunity and that Serbia, if it wants to move forward, must catch up with time. You said it was impossible. Now here's a law that goes in favor of that. Whether it's serious or not, it's taken a few steps, so the citizens, among other things, will be priced when they come out in a few months for elections, not what was on the agenda or not. Anyone who wants to live in the past should live in the past, who wants to look into the future and progress towards the future will support SNS and Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71691	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Alexander Seselj answered. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71692	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just remind you and point out what I think is the biggest problem here, which is that we remind you from time to time of all those promises that were pompously announced and the rest of the dead letter on paper. The easiest thing to say after that – let's not go back in time, but the fact is that your promises last 24 hours. Why is that a problem after pointing out when we said about the law, i.e. Proposal for a law on executive procedure and security. Simply practice shows us that you are doing something in your ideological closeness, which is when you supported Gordana Komic and Nenada Canka, i.e. their proposals and even voted for Gordana Komic's proposal, just that he was made of gold. We're talking about that since 2012, you've been pompously announcing a fight against corruption after which very few verdicts remain. And just what you were saying was that things should be dealt with systematically, we can see that you weren't successful in that, but only in specific cases when you thought that some former DS ministers, if you arrested, were actually that. They did steal, they did, they did, they did, they did, they did, but you only fought corruption for marketing purposes, and that shows you a series of corruption affairs that you currently have in your government, starting from Zoran Mihajlović to Zlatibor Lončar, etc. So that's not what bothers you, that we remind you of what you're talking about. Maybe you should change and start doing something about what you're saying and then we won't go back in the past so many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71693	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Veroljub Arsic has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71694	Obviously, we don't understand each other. I'm talking about one thing, and my colleague's talking about another. Like this, I don't want to go back to the past where there's a hard worker on the counter who's gonna ask me for some more paper or buy it. At the time, I don't want to go back. I don't want to go back when I had to bring in the bailiffs to buy lunches, dinners, offer them money to make it look like they're doing their job. I don't want to go back at that time either. I don't want to go back to a time when all kinds of documents were certified that had no legal weight, and no legal action had to be taken on these documents. I don't want to come back at that time when the state took care of everything, not institutions, not public authorities, but political will. It was at the time of the communist alliance. It's been a while. At that time, you want us back. That's what I'm talking about. Whether someone will support it, to be put on the agenda of Gordana Komic's law, well, that you voted in favour of that law, that you voted in favour of that law. You're attacking us from the SNS for putting him on the agenda, and you voted for him. What's the problem now? I don't understand that. No more, get out of that past. I'm telling you about that past. As for our promises, leave it to the citizens. Remind the citizens, we don't mind, but what we promised the citizens most importantly, we fulfilled it, which is that the average earnings today are over 500 euros, by 2024 900 euros, made 300 km of highways. More than ever in Serbia, roads have been made, reconstructed, etc. It will cost citizens, and what was on the agenda of the National Assembly, whether someone's proposal was adopted or not, on the agenda, believe me, it won't matter to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71695	Thank you, thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71696	We weren't even talking about who he voted for, we were talking about who allowed it. allowed something to be found on the agenda? As for the past you don't want to go back to the time of the crowd on counters of scrawny workers, disasters and a very inefficient state administration, that we're not going back to that past, far, far from the other day, but in your words, we're going to go to the future by, instead of the bailiffs who need to be honored, we're going to have public executioners who will be able to take away. So please, if that's the future, let's live a little longer in the past. So that's what the ones you attack every day, the ones you talk about all the worst, you didn't support at the time they introduced it, and then you supported it both in 2015 and 2019. Please, there can be no kidnapping of real estate, housing units up to 50 square meters, as we had in 2017 alone, more than 3,700, there can be no future, in any field, in any area. Don't, please, let's brag about how our country feels about what's going on in the execution, i.e. forced charges and how a certain layer of population is rich solely to the misfortune of those most in charge of Serbia, that it is the future and modernisation and that is what Serbia needs. We're absolutely against it. I say again, the principle is that the bill is discussed, then perhaps you will vote yes, perhaps our arguments will be more convincing than yours. What's the problem? As for the promise to leave the citizens of Serbia, perhaps you are right from your point of view. We shouldn't perhaps remind the citizens of your previous election promises, because they now have new promises. Now they're fresher promises. Why do we need old promises? So if that's the future we're talking about, I think we should think a little bit more clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71697	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71698	Okay, everyone has the right to their political position, to their own opinion. As far as this famous name is concerned about the judicial perpetrators, I agree that when it comes to those paratroopers they've charged, which is now their last regulation of the Justice Department, it's reduced to some reasonable measure and it's impossible to charge these executive paratroopers, but I have to ask one question to every lawyer - if you have a court that makes a decision, some verdict and that same verdict you can't execute, do you live in a rule of law? I'm saying it's not a legal state. Let's move on, you speak as if there's an individual out there, who has some public authority, so something he decides to do, and he does what he wants, and he doesn't answer for it. So wait, wait, the bailiff executes the court's order. He doesn't work alone, he executes the court's verdict. The court has ordered it. He's not an executor. He's a court. And that's what courts have determined, and only before has no one ever executed. I also agree on that human part. We can talk about it, but we can't talk about that if someone has a claim that's not public, it's limited to public claims over which amount you can sell some real estate, but what about private debt? What about the kids one of the parents doesn't execute the verdict and doesn't support their children, what do we do with it? So do you know how many cases were in Serbia? Well, you can't find them, you can't find him in which company he works, you can't find him what his current account is. Well, he won't give his own children alimony. So why don't we look that way? Let's just one, which is cheap political, someone owes him some money, so something's been taken away from him and I'm not saying there wasn't, maybe abuse, but there's someone who needs to take care of it, but we can't stop the whole system because of a few abuses. It's for abuses. The system can't not work because of it, because then we have even greater damage to some target group in a society that is sensitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71699	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71700	It's great to recognize Mr. Arsic's appearance as a certain amount of democracy when he says, "Let's talk about it." I really feel the same way that we should talk about it, and I totally agree with you, and I expect Mr. Arsic with his authority, if the Vice-President of the National Assembly is going to influence the ruling majority in the National Assembly to decide that this is a question that needs to be discussed, so that we can make our arguments, you make your arguments, and after that, whose arguments are more convincing, that according to that vote. That would be normal and natural. Well done, Mr. Arsic, that's what I support. You said it was executed based on the court's decision. That's right, but public executioners set their own costs. No one controlled it. You say there may be abuse, unfortunately in public enforcement matters, the exception is when there are no abuses, and abuse is a rule. That's what we saw at the wheelchair charge. Do you realize how crazy that is? That's what we saw when an executioner seized an apartment, and then at some secret auction, that same apartment bought a son from an executor. Vice-President of the Chamber of Executive from Kragujevac. That's what the papers and no one's writing about. We had another subject in public, very present, which is the Law on the Origin of Assets, that this will soon be found in the National Assembly. Great, let's put that group of people first, so 200 of them and something to see how they got their property, that is. The money they have now. Also, we never said debt should not be paid. Everyone has to pay what is due and everyone has to pay with reasonable interest because the trustee and the debtor in the eyes of the law are the same, but there can be no third party who is going to make enormous money, sometimes many times more than the amount of the basic debt and doesn't necessarily mean that someone is obliged, that they should be robbed. That's what needs to be prevented, that's what we've been working on and that's the essence of our bill. Once again, I thank you for sharing our views and we expect that this will be discussed very quickly in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71701	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71702	Now, I was here maybe a few months ago reading a list of executive costs used by private contractors. I read here. As far as I know it, and not as far as I know it, but as far as the Ministry of Justice reacted, it limited their rights. Let's move on, there was this affair where one bailiff bought, or took away a certain immovableity, made a bid involving the son of another perpetrator, I think, who bought that immovableity. Now, by law, that's not possible anymore. So no one, not even family members, I don't know to what degree of relation they can't participate in auctions. One more thing, since you're constantly against e-commerce, against a law that relies precisely on electronic business, just to say, that no one's property would be sold in vain, there's a special portal to the Justice Department where the property that's the execution of a court ruling is sold. That's what I'm talking about, me when someone lives in the past, that's what I'm talking about. So, no more, those problems that the citizens had, we solved. For each of the following abuses, he goes to prison. But we can't stop the system from working. We can't. On the height of the interest, this is not decided by the bailiff, neither does the trustee decide. It's never less today, I think it's something below 10% on the annual level, but that's the thing between debtors and creditors in the most common case. Is he going to forgive or not? But the system can't be stopped from working, to come up with a solution, and with the citizens until we figure out a solution, what happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71703	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71704	Mr. Marinkovic, I praise Mr. Arsic, and he attacks me. I don't think it's right on his side. One thing is interest and interest is normal and interest should exist, but the public executioner is not charged out of interest, but is charged out of the special costs that he has for execution and that is what is abnormal and that is what at the end more times turns out, as a higher amount than the interest debt is. That's what we need to get rid of. It cannot be the principle of efficiency, the more enforcement there is than before, to be more important than protecting the rights, human rights of all citizens of Serbia, the rule of law and human dignity, and that someone may be on the justice of God, accompanied by police, be robbed. Be careful of the abnormal situation. The public executioner unannouncedly kicks you out of the apartment with a police escort, you stay for a moment without everything, and after that you owe him for that favor that he kicked you out of your apartment. So that's what's abnormal and what needs to change. The state rather than only taking care of efficiency, should be a priority to it, not to run away from the problem, as DS 2011 did, when they did not want to reform the judiciary in Serbia and that the process of execution that should be in the composition of courts, to employ more people, to bind their salaries to effects, but to guarantee that they cannot be robbed and nothing can be taken from them in order to share the loot with the same perpetrators, honor of the exceptions. So that's what's necessary to change as soon as possible and a very important topic. See for yourself, do as we do, see what citizens in Serbia think of these perpetrators and what their experiences are, whether the robbery is unpunished or the robbery has become a rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71705	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71706	Here, like this, that these court employees are getting earnings based on the impact of the execution procedure. Now I'm just asking one other question - and who's going to reward them? A court of its own for regular work or will it be charged as costs for the execution procedure? I think this is the other one. And it's not a neck, it's a neck. I can't agree that DS didn't want to reform the judiciary. They wanted to reform the judiciary in their own way, to control both judges and prosecutors completely, so that they could rob Serbia, so that no one would prosecute them for it, that no one would judge them for it. They made that reform. So we can talk about it the same way. But I've just said something else, it's been distracted by the state authorities, by the authorities, so that the bailiffs charge some costs that are too high. She reacted to the state, checked the allegations and determined the right prices. There have been abuses in the sale of real estate, no more abuses, supervision by the ministry, not a chamber over the sale of property, the chamber only takes care of legality, but also supervision can perform the justice ministry. So, one has been reached, one process has been rounded up from the beginning of the lawsuit to the execution of the verdict. But, I say, much greater harm is not to execute your judgments. It means that the state doesn't exist, that the state doesn't work and that anyone can do what they want. That's why we had until 2012 so did Gilas, and Pajtic, and Solak, and Miskovic and everyone else. It was a complete absence of state. Each of our citizens will welcome the state's desire to first feel the legal certainty of his country, to guarantee his country's rights, which was not the case until 2012 and when he is in debt and when he is a trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71707	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Now you've agreed. You want a replica, Mr. Seselj? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71708	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. If there's a dilemma about judicial perpetrators, you might want to read our bill, it's that you have to commit to the effect and charge for it too, but it can't be an abnormal number. We have heard from Mrs Kuburovic that for 2019 more, in the first six months, than a billion dinars in the name of value added tax, executioners paid into Serbia's budget. So their traffic was five billion dinars. Do you think it's normal for each contractor to earn an average of 340,000 euros in the account for a year? Even if it were all normal, even if there were no violations of the law, no disrespect of the right, no robbery, why would the state of Serbia on behalf of a private person give up that money, that it's all normal now? So she gave up that money for 20% of the VAT. The state needs to be more efficient and trust should be restored, and not if any problem cannot be solved, the easiest thing to do is to give it to the private. It is true, something reduced cosmetic, marketing, but what are we going to do about these eight years before that reduction? What about those abuses? In 2017 alone, 3,700 housing units. What do we do with that? It's all accompanied by the police to protect the state and commended by the minister of justice. We believe that this is not a normal situation in Serbia and that the more urgent it is to change. That's why we came up with this bill of law, and we come up with arguments that don't stand, and especially the comments of MPs who didn't engage in our bill and didn't read it, but I say again, I think we're going to make this mistake right very quickly, we're going to ask Gordana Komic to submit such a bill on our behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71709	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. We're moving on with our work. Don't say sometimes you don't close the circle of replicas. Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71710	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the catalogue of immovableity and water. Proposer, Mrs Katarina Rakic, who presented this in a very representative way and I really have nothing to add, Mr Matic also. But it really should be said that in 2012, when we came to power, we started with reforms, among other things, were reforms concerning education, health care, but also catastra, which is extremely important for citizens. Let's just remember what it looked like by 2012, really that catastre was wound cancer. There was so much stealing, that I would go from the one that is the richest, which has a profit of just 619m euros, but that's why there are 1,649m square meters in the property, and he reported that he has one apartment in Belgrade, that he has a used car and that he has 70,000 savings. I wonder where he got a net profit of 619 million euros. Where did he get 1,649 square meters of real estate space in the most exclusive locations? It's a total of 25 million just in real estate. Now, that's why we're talking this way today, because we want to prevent, among other things, robbery, robbery that was enormous proportions, and it's not just Gilas, but he's so recognizable about real estate. Instead of explaining why he took 6.5 acres, it's just, we're going taxing, but I'm not going to take much time away from my fellow MPs, at least as much as I can, 6.5 acres on Senjak, where he raised the villa, he was talking about strangers, you know, what it's like not to see that there's this 260-square villa, so they're important foreign ones, he never answered where that came from, how that, and we know how. As far as the directors of the day are concerned, in the light of the people of the Catastres, not all of them, some who may still be working today. So let's see who doesn't do his job, then criminal charges to spit, so the M.P. will do his job, so they'll give the D.A.'s office, and let people go to jail, and we can't just talk about how nothing's wrong, nobody goes to jail, so criminal charges will go to jail. This touch, which was cut short, is not known how and how much, Dragan Gilas, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, has always refused to tell him where that 260-square villa in Senjak, 6.5-ari, and how he could legalize it. Instead of providing answers on social networks, he was merely telling lies, of course. The man has taken the land. Gilas, to remind you, made that villa on a 250 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-squaw, but it's not enough. So 650 square meters is a garden. People come, they say – you have to tear down the house and that, and overnight that same legalized it. Now, that's what we're investigating, and that's what we've done, and we've handed it over to the D.A., and what's going to happen, we'll see. There were other laws. That's why we have, we passed the law in 2018, now we have a bill promoter, alterations and supplementations, for robbery, because of those who steal and have no mercy. Let's move on, he's not the only one. This is just the beginning. As tycoons and dubious businessmen bought a state and cooperative country, the state ran out of hundreds of hectares of fertile oracles. You know how much that's in the money? A billion euros. A billion euros. So you know what a billion euros is? Well, it's a corridor over, Moravia Corridor, a billion euros. We could make hundreds of schools, hospitals, kindergartens for children. And what did they do? They make a nice deal, sit down before 2012, there's my director, you Gilas, Miskovic and the rest of them have money, we take someone from the catastrophe, and we have a nice one. How are we without a billion euros? Great. Well, that's why it's 26 billion in debt, when they say 14.5, so it's not, it's a lie. And where are the companies, the city a billion and 200, where are these thieves? Well, there they are. There, we don't have a billion euros. You'd be finished with the Moravia Corridor. A billion euros. Well, that's for 500,000 people, people would enjoy it. Now, it has to be, this is the state it is, headed by Mr. Vukic and the Government, detached 760 million from the budget, and we'll add more from the loan, we'll make a improvement for the Republic of Serbia, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's our goal, not thieves, criminals. Let's move on, the robbery of the most fertile Vojvodina ornaments, according to evidence available by the Serbian criminal police administration, is done by people, but when it comes to the prosecutor's office, it or somewhere turns or something. Someone said -- we don't do anything, we don't fight corruption and crime. Well, that's not true. Only last year, i.e. from 2018 to 2019, we've reached 500 verdicts, there are officials here, but we've made it, we're fighting. That's how it works, that's how the responsible government works. And what were these guys doing? The key role in this unscrupulous kidnapping of state goods was played by the directors of certain companies, criminals, these people, some, there are wonderful honest people and they are mostly 97%, 98%, but there are also people who are sold, from catastra, devastated the country. The administration of the criminal police, as well as the prosecutions, submitted documents stating examples from the Odjak municipality where the state and individuals were stolen. There are four agricultural cooperatives "Agrolika" from Bačko Gračac, "Polekop" from Lalic, "Agro Dunav" from Karavukov, "Unitship" from Odzak, etc. There's a thief here by 2012. For the sake of the state, I'm sure that by changing and supplementing this law, we're going to stop the robbery first, and then we're going to arrest all these criminals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71711	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. Now the word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go. I apologize to my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71712	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I think you should react because of the dignity of the Assembly. We heard the claim that by several hundred hectares this country was robbed by a billion euros. Divide several hundred acres, even 900, by a billion euros, and see what that is. Not getting into it and not considering that no application should be diminished, I ask you – how much was robbed this country, when 17,000 hectares of the most orderly land complex in Europe, not in Serbia, in the city area was sold for 105m euros, or at the price of 4,600 euros, to one single bidder, and at the opening of the offer, it was not the price the bidder offered, but only three days later. I think you should take care of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71713	Thank you, Professor, although you have spoken in some way, and this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, you know for yourself that you have used it a little bit to actually replicate your colleague Malusic. My colleague Marco suggested it to me here from the bench, but I let you go again, because of some democratic capacity of our parliament, to finish your speech. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yes, you do. Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71714	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about a proposal, we must first know, of course, what are the reasons for the adoption of a concrete law, and then what will be benefits for the citizens. When we talk about a concrete proposal, delivery will be speeded up above all, which means that solutions will be faster and easier accessible to the parties and a higher level of legal certainty is expected. The registration process in the immovableity cadastre will be accelerated, which will save the parties time, but also reduce costs in some procedures. So far, problems related to the delivery of acts in the process of enrolment have been identified in the case of application of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which ultimately implies that the party should go to the service for a solution if it has not been sent to the address in writing. The aim is to reduce the crowds, that the parties no longer have to go to the immovable cadasar, depending on whether or not they returned from the post office in writing. Therefore, it is necessary to make it easier to provide letters, publish solutions on the office website, and more control of the delivery process itself. What should be mentioned is that the adoption of this proposal will improve Serbia's final line and position on the Doing Business List of the World Bank. According to a report on the World Bank website, Serbia is set up in 42 world economies that have implemented reforms in three or more of the 10 evaluated areas for 2018 and 2019 respectively, thus improving the conditions of ease of business. Serbia has progressed four places on the World Bank's Doing Business List for 2020. Now we take 44th place, out of 190 ranked countries. SNS MPs will support this proposal, as we have supported all other proposals aimed at modernising our country, increasing efficiency in the working public administration, reducing bureaucracy, in terms of easier communication with citizens and meeting their needs and achieving their rights. Instead of the needs of citizens, those who were in power until 2012 were engaged in personal wealth, who, depending on their own interests, rather than taking care of the interests of the state and citizens. And this series or show, and I'm going to mention that, which we've had a chance to see, is probably the same people, the ones who can't go to the election right now and, for God's sake, they're not satisfied with the conditions. In a multi-hour film we can see pure and great hatred for Alexander Vukic, we can see a lot of distorted and incorrect information that aims only to discredit Alexander Vukic as a politician, but also as a man. They insist that Alexander Vukic forced Serbs to fight with other nations. They insist that Serbs are to blame for everything that happened in the 1990s. The most disgusting lies put on the burden of the Serb people. They are ready to say that Serbs have committed genocide in Srebrenica. They are ready to say that Serbs were occupiers in Glina, where Aleksandar Vukic gave a speech. I quote the film "Vladac", which is directed not only against Alexander Vukic, but against the whole Serbian people. They showed that their hatred had no limit, that neither the state was sacred nor the Serbian people, just as they showed a few days ago that their children were not holy when they directed the worst vomit to Alexander Vukic's daughter. It is the dirty campaign of Dragan Djilas and his media, Bosko Obradovic and his associates, the Alliance for Serbia that boycotts elections but not daily attacks on Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, via Marinika Tepic, on the state of Serbia by inventing affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, not many days left until April 26th, the Serbian citizens will then tell them that their boycott campaign has failed, that lies and delusions have failed, that they have not yielded fruit. We want Alexander Wolf and SNS to lead us. That day I'm waiting, so let's take them for another walk around town, 'cause from the street for the better they're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71715	Thank you, colleague. The word has Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71716	Thank you. In today's debate, there was a dilemma about the administrative procedure at the Republic Geodesy. I think there were misunderstandings both because of the administrative procedure and because of a number of pending cases. I will first say, as regards the administrative procedure – the law has made it clear that there is a two-stage administrative procedure and that the first degree solves the Service, the second degree solves the Office and it is quite clear there. Secondly, the basis for enrolment in the Katastar of immovableity or the Katastar of the waterway is the solution of the competent service, and the basis for the adoption of the solution of the competent service is the documentation prescribed by law. So the administrative procedure has its order and there can't be any mistake, there can only be ignorance. Next, there is a limited administrative procedure, until there is a limited administrative procedure for the second-degree, following the second-degree complaint, to be decided by the second-degree authority, to make a measurement decision. So far, there have been practices to complain indefinitely and it goes cyclically, circularly, circularly and forever. But now it's not possible. So the administrative procedure, as the legal form now stands, is that it's simple to solve it in a short period of time. The number of pending items that stand from a previous period is simply being solved, but current objects, current inflows, and the solution of liquid objects is practically up-to-date. So, at a given moment, I don't know at this point which is the number of objects and how long it will be solved, but it will certainly be solved in a relatively short time. I've heard something here that doesn't seem acceptable to me. He says that there was some data coming out of the cadastre that certain bookies from the schools were distant and that there was... Practically no real information was given. Believe me, no one in the Department of Catastre and Geodes will ever agree on that information. Only if it's not estimated exactly what the distance is, the definition of distance, is that it's going down the street, whether it's going in the air line, etc. Believe me, I don't believe that information, if that's the case, it's for every conviction. Selling one immovable property to multiple owners. It used to be done, now it's off, now it can't be done anymore. Simply, the notary checks all data and takes as starting data that data from the catastra, has records of all of it and is practically not possible today to sell one immovableity in several places, and sometimes it could. There was an objection here to the management, i.e. an objection to the director of the RGZ. I don't have that kind of information, and if anyone has the information that something went wrong somewhere, absolutely let them out and let everyone have the consequences for that. However, the fact is that the RGZ under this leadership is going seriously forward and these are the facts. And if that's the case, the handling at this point is for support, if somewhere is wrong and so on, we should point to those mistakes. No one's running away from all that. If there's any other data, it's known which organs are in charge of something like that. What's also very important, that's what counterpart Sreto Peric said, a network of cadastres, I think it's very important and it's said here about new systematization, about the fear that certain services will run out of cadastres or workers working in real estate cadasar services. According to my information, it won't come to that. Of course, it's good that both in the small municipality and in high school, and in cities and so on, we have a catastrophe. We are still not at that stage that the simple party fully understands everything that is done in the catastro, and in any case it needs someone to inform and obtain certain data from workers working in the immovable cadastry services. What I'm trying to say is, it's kind of neglected, although they're part of the job, and they're private geodetics. Private geodetics do a lot of work for the needs of the parties, but at one point these data become RGZ data, or service, so that private geodetics and colleagues working there and RGZ are practically twins. So that's how it's supposed to work out just what they're doing under different conditions. Something that I was saying in today's afternoon, which is that, we ourselves have to get our immovable property, she's looking for our care, to take care of it, to bring along the state and we bring this legal framework, that it's all working out, and that there's RGZ to shape it and make it better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71717	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71718	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to what's on the agenda, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to apologize on my own behalf, but also to the citizens of Serbia primarily for the wardrobe. I don't think it's polite for a MP to address himself in this tall house in a sweater, but I want to say why. As a member of the National Assembly Security Control Committee today, I was on a surveillance visit to the Karaula Land Safety Base and that is why I was trained in this field issue. (President: Thank you, Mr Markovic, for the explanation. ) When it comes to what is on the agenda today, we are discussing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure of immovableity and water and what I want to say, and many of my colleagues, i.e. previous speakers, highlighted the most important elements of the amendments to the law. We must bear in mind the benefits of these laws by citizens of Serbia. It is very important that citizens hear what benefits they will have by adopting this law, because more or less this is an area that is interested in almost all citizens of Serbia. Everyone at some point has a need to turn to the catastro, make enrollment in the immovableity cadastre, etc., and with regard to what's on the agenda today. Three are the key things that change these laws. At the same time, three are key things that citizens will have concrete benefits. The reasons for this bill are next. In this way, we remove the shortcomings observed in the current application of the Law on the registration procedure of fixedness and water, which was adopted in 2018 by precision of certain provisions, by improving existing solutions to the law and normative arrangement of relationships that have not been best arranged so far. Also, the delivery process is arranged to speed up delivery, improve the availability of solutions to parties and increase legal certainty regarding the finality of enrolment. Afterwards, the process of enrollment in the immovableity cadasar is accelerated and is cheaped and the process of enrolling certain notes is simplified. One more thing he would point out is that certain provisions of this law are in line with other laws that are relevant to the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute. We are primarily referring to the Law on Planning and Construction, as well as the Law on Law on Objects. As I said, the authorised representative of the SNS, or the authorised proponent Katarina Rakic, but also the authorised representative of the SNS, Mr Veroljub Matic, has already pointed out in his explanation and presentation the additional reasons why we think the proposed law should be passed. I wouldn't have much to add. What I would refer to in this little time left for discussion, which is the political situation in Serbia dominated by a hysterical N1 campaign, and all Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see both yesterday and before what it looks like in practice, what democracy it stands for when ten people, ten people who are known to the general public, are deeply hated by Alexander Vukic and are proud of it in some mounted film. So they don't hide that they hate Alexander Vukic, they don't miss a single chance to spit and say all the worst about Alexander Vukic. Well, then the N1 gathers them in one place, makes someone, like I said yesterday, propaganda trash in that sense, and then plays it on their television. And, God forbid someone in Serbia says -- people this isn't right, people this isn't democracy, this isn't dialogue, this isn't an exchange of views. Right now, that someone's becoming, let's not use any qualifications. So yesterday was the follow-up, according to the documentary "Government". Yesterday we heard all those insults at his expense and nothing from the same team of haters, Alexander Vukic. All this wouldn't be such a problem if they constantly didn't alarm the public with the campaign that there was some kind of suffocation of media freedom, that there was some kind of media darkness at work, that there was some kind of censorship. I'm asking the question now, and what kind of censorship is that? Indeed, what kind of censorship it is when anyone can, but whatever he thinks of going to N1 and all the worst to say about Alexander Vukic and about the members of the government and the SNS officials and not the hair on his head is missing because of it, no one is sanctioned for it, no one is punished in any way. What kind of censorship is that, then, what kind of censorship do we live in today? So it's one hypocrisy couple of excellencies, and what gives a special seal to that whole story, to that entire campaign, is actually one unpainted hatred of the Serbian people who feels at every turn when it comes to N1 TV and those other friends and like-minded. In that film yesterday, imagine, they dared to say that a genocide was committed in Srebrenica. They dared to say that in Glina, of course, it was influenced by the context that Aleksandar Vucic was visiting Clay, but they say "occupied Clay", and I ask from whom "occupied Clay"? Milorad Mircic: From the Serbs. ) (Alexander Seselj: From Vukić. From the Serbs? So the Serbs lived there for centuries and were under the international protection of the UN, just then, on the day Vucic was there, Glina was declared a protected UN zone, and they say "occupied Clay", to court the Croats. They say occupied Sarajevo, and I ask, by whom occupied Sarajevo, coat of arms, etc.? So we deal with people who hate and despise their own people. Why? Because they cannot reconcile with the fact that the Serbian people, in the most part, support Alexander Vukic's policy... And that's why they started with a sentence that reads -- "Vucic is the face of Serbia." [[Applause]] I will say today – yes, Vukic is the face of Serbia and that is why Serbs love him and vote for him and will continue to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71719	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71720	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is difficult for me now to talk about these amendments and the additions of the law after the introduction, our colleague Katarina Rakic and the representative of our group Veroljub Matic and other respected MPs in this high house, but let me say, to draw a few sentences. The law aims to remove certain difficulties that have arisen in the application of the law, so these amendments and additions will increase the efficiency, up-to-dateness of the cadastre, i.e. enrollment in the immovableity catalogue, and that is why they are amended and complemented by this law today on the agenda, which was respected by Katarina Rakic at the beginning of today's session, which was very specific and comprehensive. This is about three changes and additions, let's say three groups. First, the delivery of solutions by cadastres will be speeded up, then the entry into the immovableity cadastre and third, this law will be brought into line with other laws, first of all with the Law on Planning and Construction and other laws. Dear People's MPs, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am truly sorry that there are no of these in this high house today, and not only of them, but of other MPs, the part that does not come, and does not boycott, their colleagues, in the first order of Mr Đuric, and the two of these ladies, the honourable folk MPs, are not present. What is very important, they boycott the Assembly, but they are constantly and very unsuccessfully trying to return to Serbia's political life. That's what you respected Serbian citizens see every day. Here they are, every day they make various and different unnatural alliances, without programs, without ideas that would go in favor of a better life, you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On a daily basis, they only show an unprecedented hatred for the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his family, his associates, the honourable MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, inventing the most ground floor lies of all kinds, muddying and every success that citizens, or this country, achieve. They just, you saw, respected citizens, we talked about it yesterday, they're conducting destruction in this country. Every success not to criticise but is against every success, both the president of the state and the government and the Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Did you see the lies and deceptions in that film of theirs, which the honourable MP Alexander Markovic spoke about earlier? Last night was the sequel to that movie. Here, she answered in that movie, believe it or not, Dr. Branko Prpa. Well, do you, respected citizens, know who Branka Prpa is? The impertinent woman accuses the president of the state of Alexander Vukic of what he would never do to anyone last night in that movie. This is the Branka Prpa who destroyed as the director of the Belgrade Archives all documents on the alleged murder of Predrag Gojkovic in Saša Jankovic's apartment called "Saleta prangija" in 1993, on which I asked several times in this high house a parliamentary question and received an answer that she was 14. Six. In 2004, she destroyed that file, led by the commission by her and the director, number 03-91-62. What about that woman and her lies last night? She's been doing it over and over for years. It's a scandal she's done with this paperwork, unprecedented proportions. Dear citizens, just so you know that the election to the board of directors of a work organisation, of a company, is a documentation of lasting value. And she's commissionally destroyed this alleged murder. The prosecution informed me of the parliamentary question I had asked in this high house that the Belgrade Archives, whose head she was headed, had destroyed it. What the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, respected citizens and honourable MPs is trying to accuse in the film, should be seen as her role in this, Branka Prpa's role in what she accuses others of. Here, it appears daily through the N1 CIA and the journalist Stupar, who often brings up vomit and lies about the ruling party, the President of the State, the Government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, calling it N1 18. Seven. In 2019, on the show "360 minutes", I quote "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of the stable". He could have said that for us, but he can't say for this tall home, this is the biggest state facility. Shame on him, if there's any shame and shame. What about the other individuals that appeared in these movies? Let me just get one more undertone. There is also Mr. Sinisa Kovacevic. That poor guy's a 3. 11. In 2019, he said, "The head of the state is a traitor and until yesterday, cattle," a quote was completed. He said that he, quote, "is he and Vuk Jeremic, that they are better, better and smarter than the Wolf," finished the quote. You know, respected citizens, what did he tell you? We who voted for Alexander Vukic said we were stupid, and they, he and his individuals, are elite in this country. Next, 5. 12. In 2017, he said, quote, "doesn't know if Ratko Mladic is guilty of genocide", finished the quote. Is that a writer? That's the one writing the plays? Well, let him read the literature about genocide, he'll understand everything. But no wonder, dear Vice President Marinkovic, that's what he's saying. He seems to me to be the vice president of the Vuk Jeremic party, a member of the international gang of bandits and thieves, and he doesn't mind robbing certain countries in the world by his president! He's probably gone along with him, so he's bringing out these vomits that I'm quoting. In the end, six. 11. In 2019, he told us adversaries, and I quote, "I'm going to beat the president of the Republic, I have no doubt anymore. We should beat each way, in every way," repeats "any way", finished quote. That can only be said by someone who's a drunk, who's a drunk. A normal man can't say that. And if he's prettier and smarter, I recommend to Mr. Dr. Rancic that he deal with him a little bit. In addition, there is Danica Vučenic, who resents, behold, the president of the country in the film, who during the bombing of our country and during the war put aside people and country. It's one of his most important moral values. For the relationship to the homeland is a stone of testing man's morality. I will quote for all of them, not to mention them, the distinguished professor Dr Emil Vlajiki, who wrote an extraordinary book on the demonisation of Serbs in 2002: "One part of scientists, journalists, university professors, sociologists, psychologists, philosophers and artists perform the apology of the West, to prove that the US and NATO were right when they destroyed and bombed Yugoslavia, and Serbs deserve what happened to them," finished the quote. Mrs. Vučenic, if you are watching this transmission, you are all from the film and all your associates in this group, and I am telling you – you, gentlemen, have taken over, as Hegel would say, the identity of your NATO masters, so you have competed for a handful of dollars and today competed in the Satanization of your own country, your own people and your own, I hope, the president. Dearly respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they do so through the N1 CIA in one sentence, to say, it is an unregistered political party of lies, deception and fiction that every day, on a daily basis, satanicizes the president of the Republic of Serbia, his family, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, individual MPs and you, most importantly, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know why they all do that, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Because all of them are sorry that the head of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, who raised from the ashes all the major companies that were losers during their government, are now operating positively. I say just a few: RTB Bor has over 40% more production today, "Er Serbia" has become the best company in the region, "Gelezara Smederevo" has emerged from the ashes, and Zoran Zivkovic to the N1 CIA said it should be abolished and workers sent home. What about highways and roads? Over 170km of highways, 480km of state roads, 360km of local roads, total of 978, I answer to you last night from a film that says we haven't rehabilitated anything and built 320 bridges, started, finished and restored 360 schools, health homes in 130 cities, last night you say and joke that the president of the state is visiting every school and every home of health. Here comes a news Antic, you saw, the other day on TV, who was taken from the Serbian Army, formed a political party. Imagine what he said about the Army of Serbia and the Ministry. I quote: "The situation in the Ministry and the Serbian Army could be described as short - self-government, lawlessness, corruption, demagogy and hopelessness," the quote concluded. Such words, respected citizens, the black words about our army did not utter the greatest enemies of our country even during World War II. It's the one who was on that TV the day before yesterday and satanicized not only the military, but also the citizens and the state. They only missed him last night in the film, and he may have appeared, director Goran Markovic, who said in 4.7.2019, "Vučić was and remained a commoner. The crowd is its natural environment," finished quote. That's what he said without shame or shame. He doesn't, otherwise, because he's a man who has satanicized the Serbian people for 15 to 20 years. That's what I was talking about. In the end, gentlemen, you who I've been counting these days have been painted for nothing, especially you from various DS variants gathered today into various alliances. The more you invent, the more you lie, the more you deceive Alexander Vukic, the more citizens love him, the more you give him strength, the more powerful, the better and even more modernizing our country because of the future of us and our children. Unlike you, Aleksandar Vukic, I know that now you will be going crazy when I say this sentence, Alexander Vukic is a great Serbian reformer, a great Serbian statesman, and above all, you will not forgive him, you who I have listed, a great Serb patriot and patriot who will never do anything bad for the Serbian people and national minorities in our country. On that behalf, Your Honor, the Vice President, of course I, as well as my dear colleagues, will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71721	Thank you, Professor, for your inspired speech. Since we have completed discussions on the list, and since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? So far, Bojan Torbica and Alexander Seselj have come forward. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71722	So, as we had the opportunity to hear today in this debate, a practice of double arches is present in the National Assembly and that is what we are determined against. Thus, it has been shown that in comparison with certain values, for example for the National Assembly, that is. The ruling majority, 100,000 citizens of Serbia are less than one Gordana Komic, but therefore 126 MPs of the National Assembly are the same as Gordana Comic. That's what it takes to make it a little bit clearer, which we don't understand, but we certainly find double arches unacceptable. So, we who have submitted more than 100,000 signatures to submit the new law on executive procedure and security, which would have been abolished by public executioners, have submitted it as proposed by the law, have submitted the signatures to the office, however in the National Assembly, that is not exactly the practice, since we have seen that some MPs are more important, more important, more beautiful, smarter, more quality than others, certainly not equal to each other, so today we have had the opportunity to talk about Mrs. Rakic's proposal, before that, Mrs. Comic's proposals and recently Nenada Canka's proposals. They seem to be all more equal than others, especially more equal than those who, along with their bill of law, have collected more than 100,000 signatures of support, support for the abolition of public enforcement, as Serbian radicals have done, and we find that unacceptable. To me, there was one sentence Mrs Rakic said today in a debate in my colleague Petar Jojic's response, when he suggested and spoke of the cataster's superiors having absolutely no responsibility. When punished, they are punished in smaller functions, i.e. in some of the less important places, and then she said, "If you ask me, I am the first to be punished, and now I am in a dilemma." I thought this was her proposal and she was wondering what this should look like. What does that mean, “if you ask me, I am for punishment, ” and she submitted a bill to the National Assembly? It seems to me, perhaps, that for some reason Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic did not appear in the National Assembly, given her heavy compromise and that someone else appeared as a promoter, with all due respect, Mrs Rakic. Therefore, the law adopted in 2018 for the fourth time is amended. If the law was good, four times a year and a half, it wouldn't really be necessary to change. We believe, we talked today and about the fight against corruption, we believe, as the saying says, that fish stinks from the head, that if so many affairs involve one minister in the government, specifically the Minister of Infrastructure and Traffic Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, that it should be the first example that this country is dealing with corruption, and then to investigate a little not only about Bechtella, but also about the Railways and about everything else, that we are not now talking about how this person represented us in front of foreign partners, as it was, for example, to our allies, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, that it brutally insulted the SPC, that everything as if it hadn't happened, but concrete crime and corruption, this should be the first example. We believe that it is quoted in some influential places much better than the rest of the SNS and shows you that there is nothing you can do to it, that as much as it does to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, it will certainly be in that place because it is important to someone and it is shown. Watch the situation where the Secretary of State is arrested for malfeasance, as if something could happen at the Ministry without the minister's signature and as if something had happened corruptly or criminally, and the minister didn't know about it? That's not even a story for elementary school. And after that, of course, the procedure is still under way, when he was released from custody, with all cameras, TVs, media, the man is welcomed outside the Ministry of Infrastructure and is most warmly greeted with Zorana Mihajlovic. It seems to me that she laughs in your face, that she publicly makes you aware that you can't do anything to her, that no compromise really bothers her, because she is safe in her position and that her position depends neither on the votes your party will win in the elections nor on the authorities within your party who will be next on your list or your proposal as a minister, if you win the required number of votes, etc. She's publicly boasting and laughing in your face. So today we have had the same situation, so the promotion of the ministry's statement, the television again, that this man has returned to work, specifically this gentleman, seems to me, Poledica, the Secretary of State who was indicted and arrested for corruption. Is that the mockery of this country, of the MUP and of the courts of this country? Seems to me like it is. What's your comment on all this? No comment. So it was more important today to make a spectacle with all the media around the arrested secretary of state to promote it than to show up Mrs. Mihajlovic, if she really thinks it takes some of this to change. That's the point, and it needs to be solved, otherwise all the talk about fighting corruption is just a dead letter on paper that serves exclusively for marketing purposes. That's what's wrong with all this. I repeat again, given that the Serbian Parliament has been working full intensity for more than three months, which is due to pressure from the European Parliament, which is because of these ministers who have decided to empty their drawers now, we have a situation to discuss some draft laws that are not of priority for Serbian citizens. I repeat again that no one is asking the ruling majority MPs to support the SRS proposal, although it would be good and safe for Serbian citizens to abolish public executioners, we asked for this to come to an debate, to come to the agenda, and you remain silent. Then we saw that Gordana Comic, Nenad Canak and some others have preferential treatment and that they are much more important than 100,000 citizens of Serbia. I am not so sure that this is so in reality and I believe that this should change, especially if the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing nothing to protect the human rights of Serbian citizens who are faced with brutality, haughtiness and unscrupulousness of public executioners. In this way, they take responsibility for all the consequences of their work, and honor the exceptions, it is in most cases a robbery of property, a robbery of property and a huge wealth on, above all, those in charge and the poorest citizens of Serbia, since the practice has also shown that those who owe the most to Serbia, who are the biggest debtors continue to be in debt, are ignored by the perpetrators, but to the middle layer they are decomposed. I appeal that this is important and that it should be discussed, and you show that not everything is makeup, but that you are also dealing with concrete problems for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71723	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Now the word is Mr. Bojan's bag. Here you go, Mr. Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71724	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, here after two years of the adoption of the Law on Immobilization in Katastar and Katastar Waters since June 2017, we must conclude that in these two years in Serbia, a fixed, inefficient system of immovable registration has been changed from the root. The application of the Law over the previous two years also made it clear that there is a need to address certain shortcomings, so we have found before us today the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the registration procedure in the Katastar of immovableities and waterways, for which we must agree today during the debate we have not heard any serious remarks, as we have not heard any serious remarks about the reform process carried out in the RGZ. When we talk about positive changes in the RGZ, I must mention the director, Mr Borko Draskovic, who must be admitted to having done a great deal to make Katastar no longer a stumbling block but an efficient service of citizens, so that I fully support and praise fellow Rakic addressed both the director and the RGZ leadership regarding their work and the reforms carried out within the RGZ. I sincerely believe that now that they have had the opportunity to hear all this support addressed to their address in the coming period, they will have even better results in the work, above all in the application of these changes and additions, as well as in the fight against corruption. As we are confident that the proposed amendments and additions to the law will overcome the observed problems in practice, significantly speed up the registration process itself, but also allow greater legal certainty, the PS-NS-USS parliamentary group will support the proposed law in the voting day, and I, these few minutes left, want to use the attention of what is happening in our neighbourhood, more specifically in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where, following the appeal of seven Bosniak delegates in the Republic of Serbia's majority, the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made a clean political decision which is a member of 53. Republika Srpska's agricultural land law declared unconstitutional. Article 53 prescribed that agricultural land that was public goods or state property is now owned by Republika Srpska. Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional court, disputing the member of the law, contests its credibility and violates the Dayton structure that 51% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory belongs to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 49% of the Serb republics. Since such a decision is taking away the territory of Republika Srpska, which is exactly 85,596 hectares of agricultural land in the 25 municipalities of Republika Srpska, which is slightly less than the surface of a whole Trebinj. If the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina had decided by the Constitutional Court, which essentially wanted to confiscate from the Republic, a pardon, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have so much by decision of the Constitutional Court, which essentially wanted to confiscate from the Republika Srpska's last decision by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional Court's decision would most affected Sokolac, with more than 10,500 hectares of agricultural land on the territory of the municipality would have been taken from Republika Srpska and prescribed to BiH, Šipovo and Nevesinje would have lost more than 9,000 hectares, while in Gradišca and Mrkonjic the City of BiH would have been prescribed 7,800, i.e. 7,300 hectares. This land is located in all parts of Serbia, from Lijevac to Semberija and several municipalities in Herzegovina, counting the town of Trebinje itself. It is mainly large and decorated complexes with the highest quality agricultural land, built with infrastructure, which were once owned by large agricultural combinations. What is encouraging is the fact that Republika Srpska's parliament adopted conclusions two days ago on the anti-Dayton functioning of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which were supported by MPs of all parliamentary parties representing the Serb people in that high house, so I have no doubt that the leadership and citizens of Republika Srpska will find the best way to protect the entire territory of Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71725	Thank you, Mr. Bag. Professor Miladin Ševarlic called. Professor, we've exhausted everything by article 98 and now we're working on Article 96, so you've had the right to report and you've been on the list, in accordance with Article 98. Now I don't have the option to give you my word, even though you answered, so I'm asking you to understand. I just don't have a business option. I see it suggests one of Milorad Mircic's most experienced MPs, but I don't have a business opportunity. Excuse me, please. The word is Katarina Rakić, who proposes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71726	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, at the end of today's debate, I would first of all like to thank all those who have constructively contributed to today's discussion, especially when they were talking about the text of the law on the agenda today. I can conclude that through the debate we have all agreed that at present and in previous years, chaos and order and crowds were indeed ruled in the catastro, and that this bill must be put in the way, and we will certainly be able to see, on the eighth day after the publication, when this bill is an integral part of the law and when it starts to apply, we will all be able to make sure that it does not represent any makeup, or anything proposed pro-forma, when we see what steps it will take in the cataster or catastrah reform, then we will be able to discuss it on this subject. I would just like to say that the proposals that were very constructive, which Mr Jovanovic gave and which did not come out of the law framework, we will consider them as committee proposals and hope that the board members will accept them. And, as Mr. Bagby said, I haven't heard any objections today to the very text of the law, so I think that when it's voting day, we'll have a chance to amend these and supplement the law and adopt it. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-19-0.u71727	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. You were brilliant today. Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of immovable property and water. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
