ParlaMint-RS_2020-08-03-0.u74269	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Smilja Tishma, the oldest MP among the chosen in the last council. I thought, I expected you to bypass me any obligations because in my life and in my working life, I worked very hard in social organizations to create a better state and our country today. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly in this session and, before work begins, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in your future work. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, First (Constitutive) of the National Assembly until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one, the youngest, Members of Parliament, with four electoral lists, who have received the largest number of parliamentary mandates and by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, or his deputy. Since I am the oldest, or oldest of the MPs of the people, I have the privilege and the obligation to chair this session until the election of the President of the National Assembly to be assisted by the youngest MPs. The chairman is: Nikola Lazic, Dubravko Kralj, Sofia Maksimovic, Nandor Kiš, Srdjan Smiljanić and Branko Marinkovic. They're the two youngest to help me work. I ask the youngest Members of the people, the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 190 MPs attend today's session and that, in accordance with Article 105(1), paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the above provisions, the agenda is as follows: D n e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of National Assembly President, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly, 5. The selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Articles 5 and 6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MPs gain rights and responsibilities in the National Assembly on the day of their mandate, that is what today means. Confirmation of the MP's mandate is carried out on the basis of a conviction of the election for the MP and a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First (Constitutive) session, educates a three-member commission, on the proposal of the chairman, most of the votes of the MPs present. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission, on the basis of a report from the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of each MP's election is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the National Assembly's First (Constitutive) session finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). In agreement, and with the consultations carried out, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the Parliament's vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, the MPs shall be elected: 1. Aleksandar Marković, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – FOR OUR CHILDREN, 2. Ugljesa Markovic, selected from the IVICA DACIC Election List – "Socialist Party of Serbia, Unity of Serbia" – Dragan Markovic Palma and 3. Aleksandra Čamagic, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR ŠAPIĆ – Victory for Serbia. I would point out that, in accordance with Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, necessary for the proposal for the education of the commission to be voted by most of the members of parliament present. I am voting on a proposal for the education of the committee to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Choice with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I find that, unanimously, most of the votes, this proposal has been accepted by 235 votes. Since we have educated the Commission to establish the agreement of the People's MP's Choice Committee with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I ask the Members of the Commission to hold a session in Hall I immediately. We now interrupt the work of this part of the session, until the Commission's report to determine the agreement of the Parliament of the People's Parliament with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly. We'll continue our work after a 60-minute break. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the First Point of the Agenda. I remind you that, with the invitation of this session, you have received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly. Before the start of this session, you were presented with a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MPs' vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly. Does the Commission's rapporteur want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-08-03-0.u74271	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the Commission has been educated in order to establish the agreement of the People's Parliament's MP's election and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out in accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly compared the information contained in 250 credentials on the selection of the MPs with the relevant information in the Report on the elections carried out for MPs and found that all 250 persons who, in line with the above, had to be confirmed by the MPs' mandates. I thank you and wish you good luck in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-08-03-0.u74272	According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and Article 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of the Commission's report on establishing the consent of the Parliament of People's Parliaments to the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out for the People's MPs of the National Assembly, which confirmed the mandate of all MPs. Since the term of office of all Members of the People has been confirmed (two-thirds of the Members of Parliament shall constitute a term of office), pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia The National Assembly has been established. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. "I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant's loyal, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and man-made rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to Secretary General Srdjan Smiljanić through the service of the Protocol of the National Assembly. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. Dear Members of the People, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 22. The Rules of Procedure need you to educate the parliamentary groups. I would also remind you that the parliamentary group has been educated by the submission of the upcoming National Assembly through the Office of the National Assembly of the List of Members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list particularly highlights the president of the parliamentary group, his deputy, and that the MP can only be a member of one parliamentary group. This concludes the session of the National Assembly for the day. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. Thank you for your cooperation, and for today we have completed the work of the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Smilja Tishma, the oldest MP among the chosen in the last council. I thought, I expected you to bypass me any obligations because in my life and in my working life, I worked very hard in social organizations to create a better state and our country today. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly in this session and, before work begins, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in your future work. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, First (Constitutive) of the National Assembly until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one, the youngest, Members of Parliament, with four electoral lists, who have received the largest number of parliamentary mandates and by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, or his deputy. Since I am the oldest, or oldest of the MPs of the people, I have the privilege and the obligation to chair this session until the election of the President of the National Assembly to be assisted by the youngest MPs. The chairman is: Nikola Lazic, Dubravko Kralj, Sofia Maksimovic, Nandor Kiš, Srdjan Smiljanić and Branko Marinkovic. They're the two youngest to help me work. I ask the youngest Members of the people, the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 190 MPs attend today's session and that, in accordance with Article 105(1), paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the above provisions, the agenda is as follows: D n e v n i r e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of National Assembly President, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly, 5. The selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Articles 5 and 6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MPs gain rights and responsibilities in the National Assembly on the day of their mandate, that is what today means. Confirmation of the MP's mandate is carried out on the basis of a conviction of the election for the MP and a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First (Constitutive) session, educates a three-member commission, on the proposal of the chairman, most of the votes of the MPs present. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission, on the basis of a report from the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of each MP's election is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the National Assembly's First (Constitutive) session finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). In agreement, and with the consultations carried out, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the Parliament's vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, the MPs shall be elected: 1. Aleksandar Marković, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – FOR OUR CHILDREN, 2. Ugljesa Markovic, selected from the IVICA DACIC Election List – "Socialist Party of Serbia, Unity of Serbia" – Dragan Markovic Palma and 3. Aleksandra Čamagic, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR ŠAPIĆ – Victory for Serbia. I would point out that, in accordance with Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, necessary for the proposal for the education of the commission to be voted by most of the members of parliament present. I am voting on a proposal for the education of the committee to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Choice with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I find that, unanimously, most of the votes, this proposal has been accepted by 235 votes. Since we have educated the Commission to establish the agreement of the People's MP's Choice Committee with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I ask the Members of the Commission to hold a session in Hall I immediately. We now interrupt the work of this part of the session, until the Commission's report to determine the agreement of the Parliament of the People's Parliament with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly. We'll continue our work after a 60-minute break.
