ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, it is today December 10th, International Human Rights Day, the day when the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, which for the first time in history recognised the right of all people to live, freedom and security, without any difference, a day which marks the world as a reminder that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. As every year, this day is an opportunity to look back on the situation in our own country. Unfortunately, Serbia cannot boast of results that would be consistent with the expectations of all its citizens. Today, the government characterises, among other things, the collapse of rights, the absence of public dialogue, tolerance, freedom of expression and acceptance of critical opinion. While our state party is particular, our universality is shared. As humans, we have a man with his freedoms and rights. Respect for human rights has never been high on the country's priority scale and because human rights are perceived as an imperial concept of the West on which NGOs insist because of the money they receive. Serbia is creating an ethnic homogeneous state after Yugoslavia's collapse, excluding a compromise with minorities. The balance with minorities is necessary to support cultural and ethnic diversity. Political and economic pressures, censorship, have led almost to the full deprofessionalisation of the media. A large number of them have been reduced to a propaganda asset by the government. Pressure, censorship, spread of untruths and half-truths, creating parallel reality, inventing and insulting real and alleged opponents of the regime with Stalinist methods, vulgarisation, publicly written and spoken words, denial of war crimes and discrimination against vulnerable groups are the everydayity of today's Serbia. The Commission's report from the Council of Europe found that the involvement of citizens and civil society in the decision-making process in Serbia is very low, another major problem and an obstacle to full application of human rights standards at domestic level. The incomprehensible absence of progress in the area of rule of law, the fight against corruption and freedom of the media makes 2020 a year without a single open chapter in negotiations with the EU. In particular, those critical of the government, as well as those dealing with the face of the past and corruption, are hit. There is also a small number of critical-oriented media. The absence of rule of law makes it impossible, despite pressures from society, the functioning of institutions, especially the judiciary. The collapse of the idea of professionalization of institutions continues, taking on devastating dimensions. Voluntarianism and particisation have turned state institutions into a bastion of advances. Camping against that part of the civil sector that represents European values such as the rule of law, the market, human rights, impunity, lasting in continuity and content do not constitute novelty. During this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done almost nothing to improve human and minority rights. For the adequate representation of minorities in the public sector, the law prohibits and public use of national symbols, especially for Albanians, non-recognition of diplomats from Kosovo in Serbia, in addition to the obligations that President Vukic made with the Washington Agreement, the unconstitutional change of the ethnic structure of the population in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, which is carried out on behalf of the law on the basis of the pasivation of the address, is just some of the concrete cases of violations of human and minority rights. Dear citizens, 30 years since the collapse of the one-party system and 20 years since 5 October Serbia is far from building a modern, civil and democratic republic. Far from being a republic of equal citizens. Far from being a republic that fights discrimination against another, regardless of what the other could be a woman, opposition, Albanian, Roma, Muslim, agnostic and others. It is far from the Republic establishing equal treatment for a worker, unemployed, poor, uneducated, sick, retired, as it has for an all-powerful rich man. Finally, the extreme nationalism that dominated the 1990s essentially changed form. The nationalist concept of the state does not mean the establishment of a stable and efficient state, nor modern society. That's why Serbia is an unfinished state, because the issue of its future has not been resolved yet. Because of territorial aspirations that are still strong, Serbia is unable to implement internal integration. Today, unlike the authorities, we political opposition and citizens in this day to remind ourselves of Nelson Mendela's words: "Being free is not just about taking down chains. Being free implies, above all, and a way of thinking that respects and increases the freedom of others." This requires not only a different power, but a different republic. Because of all these phenomena that stand in the way of the country's progress towards EU membership, my question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is what measures will be taken to remove all these obstacles that prevent further and faster progress towards full membership in the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1422	Thank you. If I hadn't heard this sentence in the end, I'd have assumed you'd used this time to discuss it, but it's okay. I'm just asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1423	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is today, International Day of Human Rights and I wish to congratulate both the President of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on respecting human rights in Serbia, on the fact that Serbia absolutely does not want to discriminate against any national minority in Serbia. The fact that representatives of individual national minorities in Serbia have less value and that they deal with politics is their personal problem, but they must not discriminate against representatives of their national minority, because could a Serb speak on any territory or in any parliament as Shaip Kamberi talks today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Of course not. It is the respect of national minorities, it is respect for the difference between Serbia and other territories, compared to other countries. Dear President, numerous attacks and the spread of false news and provocative statements that primarily promote Kosovo independence and Albanian lobbyists are present these days. The new US administration also announces a new policy course in the Balkans and the promotion of independence, so-called "independence". Kosovo. Some of the recommendations of the Foreign Affairs Committee are to block Serbia's entry into the EU until it recognises Kosovo, use of diplomatic and economic instruments, including sanctions for achieving US goals in the Western Balkans and distance Belgrade from the influence of Moscow and Beijing. Except for prejudice, hatred and lies, nothing else can be expected of them. So, the same rhetoric of the same people, the same Albanian lobbyists, i.e. The lobbyist for Kosovo's independence that we could hear 10, 20 years ago. Nothing's changed here. The so-called Kosovo and strengthened Serbia are not at all equal today. Serbia is more geopolitically important to the United States and that is what worries all protagonists of Kosovo's independence. Serbia today is both the military and the political plan most developed in relation to countries in the region. She has strengthened her policy of military neutrality, independence, and as such must not be neglected in American politics. In addition to numerous statements by the US administration, the lobbyist of Kosovo's independence, we have also maligned reactions and comments from Pristina that confirm by who knows which way there is no political will for the necessary progress in the process of dialogue, so during yesterday someone who calls himself the acting president of the so-called president. Kosovo, Vjosa Osmani, with her flammable self-inflicted self-inflicted words, only confirms that Pristina is ready to bury any chance of dialogue, respect for any agreements, although Serbia is trying to find a fair and compromise solution. Reactions from Pristina by who knows which way they say there is still no political will necessary for essential progress in the process of dialogue. Time -- it's very bad to talk about what's going on today. ours and their victims. Victims are victims. And every victim deserves justice and every crime must be punished, but of course it must be absolutely true for everyone. A long time ago, Serbia points to crimes committed by KLA members of Serbs, Roma and all Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. At the same time, all we hear from Pristina is stories of Albanian victims and the deaths of innocent civilians in the so-called. Unsullied and honest fighting of the KLA. The peak of such haughtiness is likely to be a denial in the coming period that Serbs have ever lived in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. The position of both the president of Serbia and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is clear, as they mentioned you during yesterday -- should not go back to the past, but build a bridge towards a peaceful future. Such a Hague rhetoric, which attacks both the president of the state and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the people of the Republic of Serbia themselves will not pass alone. A dialogue has been announced between Belgrade and Pristina in Brussels. The most important issues Belgrade will insist on is the issue of forming a community of Serb municipalities, resolving property issues and financial claims. Serbia is therefore ready to respect both the Brussels and Washington agreements, because we are not going back in time, but are looking at a better future. A concrete question from the Prime Minister, Minister for European Integration, Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija – can current developments affect the start of the process of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and should the European Union finally lead a balanced policy by putting pressure on compliance with the agreements reached in the previous time period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1424	Thank you. People's heir to Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1425	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, means I will sit down this time because I will read witness statements in a corrupt case. So, I'm simply asking the MUP and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime for suspicion, and the city of Belgrade will file a criminal report against the N.N.A. this week, relating to the suspicion that the Belgrade city has been damaged by eightm euros paid to the Greek company "Sil" for fictitious consulting services related to the construction of the bridge through Ade. So, this information I'm going to read has been provided by a protected witness who is known to our investigative authorities and one of the media to whom he gave his statement, who testifies that he personally participated in talks with people close to Gilas, who openly sought a racket to build a bridge through Ade and that Gilas's people were paid about eight million euros for these fictitious consulting services. The witness describes, this is a very interesting process of corruption. The bridge was built by a consortium composed of three companies. On the basis of a contract with Por, two companies paid Poru money for consulting services, and Por then transferred the money to the account of the Greek company Sil, owned by Rajan Rajačić, a Serbian citizen, who has been in contact with Gilas' godmother Jesic. The money that the Slovenian and German companies had to transfer on the basis of these services was actually directed towards Gilas's orders, given that the consortium was assigned a job building the bridge as it was in the contract in "Sil". The witness provided media and invoices, contracts, copies of accounts proving that 2.5m euros were paid to the Greek company on behalf of these fictitious services as the first part of the eight tranche. The witness also says this – city official Zoran Jubrinoni, who was otherwise a functioner and DS, met with us personally and transferred the oral orders of Gilas to funds for alleged co-operation during the construction of the payment bridge to the Greek company "Sil". Mr. Rajcic, owner of the "Sil" was in very intense communication with Dragan Jesic, the godfather of Gilas. If we link the fact that Gilas was head of Jubrinoni, and his best man Jesic worked closely with Rajačić, the money flows taken from our consortium are clear, says a protected witness. Three people were carelessly making statements last week that will surely be the subject of the investigation. Gilas said a week ago, 4.12., that the bridge contract was signed in April 2008 and that he was not involved in this process at all about these consulting services, nor in the bridge process at all because the mayor became four months later. However, by doing so, Gilas made a lie that is easily verifiable, which will of course be the subject of the investigation. As the NIP minister, Gilas attended the signing of a bridge contract and as a minister for the NIP was directly engaged for two years in all bridge-related affairs, since it was in his job description, so it's strange why he hides it. If he had been involved in the world, the Belgrade city statement of 9.4.2008 shows what Mr. Dragan Gilas said when he signed the bridge contract. So he knows everything. In addition, it will be in the indicative prosecutor's office that in his statement of 4, a week ago, Gilas did not deny the existence of these corrupt consulting services, but said he was not involved in it, which is very indicative. He shouldn't have been wise enough to do this at all. We have a statement from former director Boris Rankovic – Gilasova and Tadic for eight years, who said two days after Gilas, that he knew only one consulting contract from 2006 and that there was no knowledge of everything else and that the money for this consulting agreement for "Sil" could not be paid from the city's budget or credit funds. The day after Gilas, who confirmed that he knew Rajačić as well as Rankovic, answered Zoran Jubrinoni, and he said: once a week I was seeing people from the consortium, I can't say I don't know Ryan Rajačić, he says – and I don't remember what my acquaintance was like with him. Of course I've been seeing Gilas, but mostly communication went through the director of the Directorate. The subject of future investigations must be these four former officials and Alimpic, who also signed the contract. He must be the director of the Greek firm "Sil", our citizen, Rajan Rajačić and Dragan Jesic, Gilasov's godfather and business associate, relationship with Rajačić. I'm done. I advise the authorities to determine the detention of these six so they don't affect the witnesses and that they don't eventually flee the country, and I remind you once again to pair up the data from this information I gave you about that legal robbery of the Directorate over the seven years that has damaged Belgrade by 290m euros. It's the mob. Arrest the mob. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1426	Thank you. Since no one's answering anymore, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Dragan M. Markovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government and their associates are invited to attend. Just to join the government representatives, of course, there is Minister Sinisa Mali, whom we should give recognition because of this large presence in the National Assembly and his associates Saša Stevanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Darko Komnenic, Assistant Minister, Ana Jovic, Assistant Minister, Miles Marjanovic, Head of Department Olivera Ružic Poparić, Senior Advisor and Dragana Nesic, Ela Ki Simic and Mirjana Lukic, Independent Advisors at the Ministry of Finance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kucevic, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic, Ardjen Barjami, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word with this case? Alexandra, I assume it's on behalf of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1427	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, we had the opportunity on the Committee yesterday to accept, in fact, the amendment of the Government relating to the redistribution of funds in the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and for a certain part of the funds by which the Minister of Culture and Information, Mrs Gojkovic, explained here in principle debate, relating to the defined funds and the transition from indirect users to direct users, and according to a special decision of the Government, about 700 million dinars for the film industry and the sum, in fact, is part relating to Article 1. Article 8 is, in fact, that table that interests us all, because there has been a change in these tables by Article 8, in detail, then it is logical to come in that summary table by Article 1 so that we are pleased to accept this amendment, since in principle we had a good explanation for why we are doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1428	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Janko Langura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1429	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the budget, I really don't know what I would add that my colleagues have not already spoken except, of course, the words of praise at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Sinisha Malo and, of course, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vukic. We are witnessing that in this difficult time for the whole world, and due to the worst economic crisis that has hit us as a result of the pandemic of the coronary virus, Serbia continues to progress. We have now had an example, when the most investigative German magazine "Bild" places Serbia in one country that has best overcome the crisis caused by the crown and has brought real measures. These are the things that and how all the citizens of our country can rejoice, because you know when one Germany faces a 5.5% GDP decline, Serbia remains on a minimal decline and remains the best in Europe, which is for every praise. I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as President Aleksandr Vukic on the extraordinary results. These parameters are not the result of some one-time work, no, that is exclusively the result of one continuous good work and leading responsible economic policy, and this responsible economic policy that I am talking about and led by President Aleksandar Vucic has led to our economic system being very stable, and that we could also bring real measures, as a fight against the crisis caused by the coronary virus. I'll remind you of just some of the measures we've taken, I'll remind you that we are in addition to the great help of the economy, that each employee has received an amount of over 1100 euros in aid from our country. We helped pensioners, additional assistance to all citizens of 100 euros, by giving so-called We are a helicopter of money and how we stimulated consumption and we directly helped our economy in this way, and we all remember very well that individuals wanted this measure of ours and how to use it to get cheap political points, which, of course, failed, because the results are one measure and how obvious. President Vukic said besides all these measures that Serbia will not stop there. We have now announced another aid to pensioners of 5,000 dinars, now 17 and 18 December in front of St. Nikola. We will continue to raise salaries to health workers, there will be more pay increases in the military, there will be more pay increases in the public sector, as we expect even better and more additional measures to help the economy. I would really like to commend the construction of two hoofs of the hospital in Kruševec and Batajnica, because, you know, we can now see that the construction of these two bird hospitals can be saved for our country at this point. Serbia is next to Russia and China, I must point out, the only country that has managed to build two brand-new birds of the hospital in one record time. Thus, President Aleksandar Vukic showed that the health of citizens is his first priority and that his struggle is to preserve every life and fight to save every citizen's life in the first place. We are now witnessing that a certain Ms. Marinika Tepic, who can't remember, I will repeat, is the lady who used to do drugs on a chicken farm in Moravic. It's the same one that brings out the most disgusting lies every day at the expense of President Alexander Vukic, as well as at the expense of his family. Today, we were able to see on Twitter one truly brutal attack on the children of President Alexander Vukic, one brutal attack which is another in a series of continuous attacks on President Alexander Vukic as well as on his family. I will now show you this photograph and this tweet, please increase this so that the citizens of Serbia can see this disgrace and what the opposition is serving today. Namely, a certain Jakša posted a photograph of the donkey on Twitter and wrote – what is the name of the donkey cub? Of course, it's an opportunity for Mr. Rask to answer that it's about Daniel or Vukan. I'll remind you that Vukan is only three and a half years old. This is just another one in a series of brutal attacks on the family of the president of the state. The only fault they have is that they are the children of President Alexander Vukic. They have been unfairly accused of all sorts of things, and the opposition's supporters have rarely called for their liquidation, and it's time to get in the way. That insolence can no longer be put up with. I mentioned a certain Mrs. Marinik Tepic. That lady gave herself the right to criticise the hospital the other day, Kovid Hospital in Batajnica. In the last two days, I've had more conversations with Dr. Maria, who's employed at this Kovid hospital, who told me that the conditions for working in this Kovid hospital are at the highest level possible, that this hospital is one of the best in Europe, and that, of course, all doctors are less likely to work, and that it's easier for them to treat their patients in such conditions. I would take the opportunity to tell Mrs Tepic that sometimes she thinks what damage it does to the citizens of Serbia by making all these most disgusting lies every day and asking her if she ever thought about how she could help the same citizens. Of course not, because she's only looking to protect her interests and the interests of the Gilas brothers. I understand that you have to tell lies every day, because during your abject reign you have proven that you are incapable of making a village infirmary. Not to mention the homes of health, the hospitals, the clinical centres, it's a mental noun for you gentlemen. I would also like to ask Mr. Dragan Gilas, why doesn't he now take the money he took from our citizens out of his deep pocket and make a hospital? Well, of course not, because if he ran such a policy, the Gilas brothers wouldn't have a hectare of apartments today. Of course, in addition to all these facts that I have stated and when doctors struggle daily to preserve every life, every citizen in this country, the opposition, we all know very well, a nice gesture, one human gesture of our citizens when every night at eight o'clock applauded our doctors, managed to spoil it. They wanted to take advantage of it, and they got that applause to spoil it. Of course, it doesn't prevent them from attacking the crisis headquarters every day despite all these facts. They are not prevented from making the most disgusting insults at the expense of Mr. Kon, at the expense of Mrs. Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, at the expense of Dr. Stevanović and others. What hypocrisy this is really about is the fact that this same Mr. Dragan Gilas has been attacking our colleague, Mr. Mark Atlagic, for days because of the truth he made. Immediately there, after Mr. Mark's speech, the great patriots found themselves offended, found themselves smart to account for Mr. Atlagic's even more diverse insults. I'll just remind you of some situations. We all remember very well when Mr. Nemanja Matic, a celebrated Serbian football player, praised the construction of the highway "Milos Veliki". At that time, Gilas' obedients and Gilasov and Solak's media in the worst possible ways triggered a move against the same Mr. Nemanje Matic, against the man who bled in the Serbian team's uniform, against a man who knows what it means to fight and represent Serbia in the right light, and that's the gentlemen you'll never know. We all remember very well when you attacked Mr. Nenad Lalatovic, one of the best Serbian coaches. For what? Because he said that Mr. Alexander Vukic is one hell of a way to run this country. You've started a hack against him that the citizens were sick and tired of reading your comments and looking at your portals. We will not forget, of course, when you attacked Mr. Jezdić in the ugliest ways since the opening of the same highway "Milos Great" which for the benefit of all our citizens, and now you find yourself offended that Mr. Atlagic told you the truth in your face. I'd look back on just one more thing that's very diabolical and very dangerous for our society. These superheroes, their false, self-proclaimed elites, as Dragan Gilas calls them, who every week from the Gilas and the Solak media are the most disgusting lies and insults at the expense of President Alexander Vukic, have managed to show all the things we gentlemen have long known in the last few days. Now I'm going to show you a photograph in which one so says entertainer, the only entertainer of Dragan Gilas, in my opinion a very bad politician, in a very misogynous way encouraged violence against women. Namely, this is Mr. Ivan Ivanovic's tweet, and I'm asking you just to show the citizens of Serbia, to let the citizens of Serbia see this. This tweet where Mr. Ivan Ivanovic corresponds to our colleague Pili on her middle finger speech. Under that tweet were the most disgusting comments, the terrible comments of Gilas' followers. Have you seen anyone from these tycoon media condemn Mr. Ivanovic's behavior? You're not gentlemen and you'll never see. I would like to ask Mr. Ivanovic, is this the behavior of his patriotism that Mr. Ivanovic is talking about? Is this behavior okay for a public figure? Is this behavior normal for you to respond to someone whose opinion you disagree with? I would ask, since Mr. Ivanovic is also in his, I am free to say to the political show, he is making even more insults at the expense of his colleague, Pilje, and he is talking about some patriotism that he does not know and does not know what patriotism is. Is this patriotism when he celebrates the anniversary of the Storm in his luxury apartment in Rovinj along with the Croats? Is this patriotism when this same Mr. Ivanovic in his political show invites a man who said that Serbia would swim in blood, and give the same man no less than a tractor? Is this patriotism when the television Mr. Ivanovic is working on shows the map of the Republic of Serbia without its component, without the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Is that patriotism when the same Marinika Tepic, who was admired, signed and demanded that Serbia admit that there was some genocide in Srebrenica? I, Mr. Ivanovic, would like to finally tell you that you and how you are aware that today's children's internet is available daily and at all times. And, Mr. Ivanovic, no child in the world can watch a public figure insult and humiliate his mother, as you did to our colleague Pilja. You must know that heroes, superheroes as they call you, Dragan Gilas, possess at least one virtue, at least one good quality, and I, Mr. Ivanovic, cannot find one with you. If you knew of shame, you'd be ashamed. Thank you, a decent Serbia has lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1430	Thanks, buddy. Before we continue to work, I'd like to read you a notice that is related to today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, today at a time when we are in a situation where we are struggling to preserve not only health, but economics and economics, thanks to the work of the Ministry of Finance and the work of the Republic of Serbia in general, we have the opportunity to talk about the development budget. We have already had the opportunity to hear in principle debate and I have already talked in principle about planned increases in wages and pensions, about the tendency for citizens to feel the consequences of the Kovid 19 epidemic to the least possible extent, but also about continuing to improve the standard of living for our citizens. At this point, we can say that the unemployment rate is about 7%, which is certainly a historic minimum for our country. It is also commendable that in the first ten months of 2020, nearly two billion euros in foreign investment, and this is an important factor in GDP growth, which also affects the better standard of living for our citizens. If we're talking about health care, we're aware that we've invested a lot of money in the treatment, now primarily from the Corona virus. We will also have new hospitals in Batajnica and Krusevec, and these are also indicators that Serbia is successfully fighting all possible challenges ahead of it. Only evil people, only failed politicians in the likeness of Marinika Tepic or Dragan Dilas, can criticise the construction of hospitals because they were unable to do so and would not, because they are not really interested in the needs of Serbian citizens. To go back to 2014 and remember the difficult fiscal consolidation measures that, first of all, were decided by Aleksandar Vukic, whom many said were unpopular measures and he himself was aware of, and then we were determined to fight and we fought, and Aleksandar Vukic first showed it, by putting his personal, party and any interests after the interests of Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Because of the irresponsible policy until 2012 when public debt amounted to more than 70% of GDP, we are still forced to correct mistakes and today we are forced to suffer certain consequences and continue to repay some debts due to liabilities and spending money without any order. During this year, the state stood behind citizens and the economy with 12.7% of GDP which we were not able to do before. So we've again shown that we can carry out the measures, because we have a stable and secure budget. This is supported by the fact that it will not deviate from the Serbia 2020-2025 plan, which implies investment of 14 billion euros in infrastructure by 2025. With that in mind, I would like, Mr. Small, to inform you of the importance of this program for the local population. I've talked about it many times in the tide, and I want to tell you as a council member of the City So in Nis, the Red Cross, that there are 23 villages in the territory of these municipalities, of which 19 villages have problems with water and sewerage, because the nets are incomplete or not started at all. I ask you this opportunity to keep that in mind, when making plans and when setting priorities where, how and when these projects are going to work. We want to show, not only the township of the Red Cross, but also the town of Nis, as a unit of local self-government, that in future work we can be good partners with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow a better standard of living for our citizens. Then we come to the conclusion that we all fight, each in our own way, each in our own jurisdiction, we fight here in Parliament, we fight people at the bar. If we remember the period since 2012, when the SNS took over and the responsibility to lead Serbia forward, until 2012, if we ask what we had, we had an unstable budget, we had no money and we didn't have any plans to build Serbia. But what was it? There was an affair, there was a violation of the law, there was private wealth, there was budget devastation, there was nothing good for Serbian citizens until 2012. But let's move on with the questions, who was it good for? For individuals who exercised power until 2012, for Dragan Gilas, who led Belgrade, for his co-workers to whom only affairs are tied, some of whom have been processed. Then don't complain about Gilas's media, if we ask from here, where do you get the money from, where do you get the flats and locals and where do you even get the idea that the citizens of Serbia don't care? We've come to a crucial difference between them and us. Those who led the country until 2012, looked exclusively at their interests, made themselves rich to the enormous borders, and that is the only reason they want to return to power, to continue where they left off in 2012. But I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will not allow them to do so because they want to live in a well-ordered and modern Serbia which they are sure can only be provided by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1432	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. By amendment, MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1433	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the entire world economy, and so on Serbia, face risks and uncertainty due to the pandemic of the Crown Virus, a little when the immediate future was as uncertain as it is now. Therefore, this budget must show some flexibility due to the uncertainty of the Kovid 19 pandemic. The budget for 2021 is developmental and social, because capital investment is one of the priorities, but it also needs to provide certain contributions, which are sectoral investments in upgrades, but also salaries, pensions and social contributions. Since this budget is partly and socially, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law, as social justice is at the heart of our policy. Budget revenues are mostly realistic, they are in real and given frameworks, indicating that budgeting of public revenues is realistic and carefully planned. The 2021 budget envisions total revenue and revenue of a billion 1,336 pardons, three billion dinars, which is an increase of 45 billion dinars compared to the estimated amount for 2020. The projected deficit in 2021 is 3% of GDP and public debt is reduced to 58.7%. As of January 1st 2021, the budget envisions an increase in pensions per Swiss formula, minimum earnings, an increase in employees' salaries to health, the public sector, employees in the military. The fiscal policy measures are also foreseen to further reduce the tax burden on earnings. The fiscal strategy states that the fiscal space in 2021 will be used to increase capital investments, additional investment in the health system, and as I have previously cited an increase in wages and pensions, for tax redundancies of the economy, which is the most significant measure of tax policy. All these measures are designed not to endanger the stability of public finances and the pace of public debt reduction, then to maintain the standard of living and help economic development, but also to ensure the flexibility of the reaction to new crisis impacts. The absolute priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia and further investment in building road and rail infrastructure, which will further affect faster economic growth. I must also point out that a package of economic measures to mitigate the consequences of Kovid 19, in 2020, created conditions for a faster recovery of the economy. I'm going to look back on a section of the health budget. The party I belong to, the SPS, advocates a health care system on the principles of social justice, i.e. the availability of healthcare for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. For this sector, 32.1 billion dinars have been identified, which accounts for 2.15% of total expenditure and expenditure to implement public policies. More than half of these amounts are donations from the Ministry of Health to the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The health sector includes a large number of programmes, and my colleagues discussed them in principle, where I will look back at two programmes. First, all praises for investment in the development of infrastructure health institutions, investment in their equipment, in medical devices. I will also refer to the programme of preventive healthcare, which is defined by 1.5 billion dinars, compared to the 2020 budget, when 121 million dinars are allocated for these purposes, if I am not mistaken. This is a major advance, because it finally came to the realization that preventive medicine is a very important health sector that has been unfairly neglected. The indicators themselves say that investment in prevention is less spending on the state than investing in treatment. In fact, one dinar invested in prevention is the same thing as 16 dinars invested in curatives. I will take the opportunity to say that my opinion is that we need to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act, which was adopted in 2019 in this home, which unfairly declared certain branches of preventive medicine. Time, practice and Kovid pandemic showed us that preventive medicine is and what an important health sector. The second sector programme I'm going to talk about, or the health sector I'm going to talk about, is the protection of people with rare diseases. For this purpose, three million dinars were allocated, which is 9% of the total funds for healthcare. And these funds are being transferred to the RFO. The reminders work in the 2020 budget, the funds for these purposes amounted to 2.4 billion dinars, and in 2019, 250 million dinars. This shows that public awareness and the state itself of rare diseases is much higher, but still not high enough to help all individuals. In a letter I received from NORBS – The National Organisation for Rare Diseases of Serbia says that, in their opinion, the Commission for the Treatment of Rare Diseases formed at the RFZO for these purposes needs to allocate 5.4 billion dinars. Since the entire budget for health care is lower by 2.7 billion dinars, I don't know for which programming activities could be over-programmed by a missing amount. It should also be borne in mind the financial exhaustion of the health sector in this pandemic-induced crisis. I will remind the public that in Serbia 6% to 8% of the population has a rare disease, which is half a million citizens. I also note that 30% of children with rare diseases live less than five years. We are also witnessing numerous appeals in the media to help these children in the media. The most common consequence is the end of life and permanent disability, as well as the threat of the entire family caring for that person. Therefore, through national policies and legislation, special support should be given to families whose members have suffered from rare diseases. I sincerely hope that the missing funds for these purposes will be found in the budget rebalance for 2021. Finally, the main objective of the 2021 budget, aimed at the health sector, is to preserve and improve Serbia's population's health and sustainability of the health care system, and is defined according to the health policy objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1434	Thank you. The word has a minister, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1435	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, all of you, honourable Members of the People. Mrs. Ivkovic, there's only one thing I'd like to do, one piece of information you've provided, because it's not true, I'd like to correct it. You're talking about health leaves, so you mentioned that the ministry's budget was reduced, etc. If you look at the total health leave for next year, it's 386,3 billion dinars. Ministry of Health, RFZO, Ministry of Defence, Military Health, Covid Hospital and Fund solo. The biggest part of that budget right now is the RFO, 353 billion. Why am I telling you these numbers? Because 386.3 billion for next year is more than 311 billion, which was a plan for all these institutions for this year and is larger than 289 billion from 2019. So, just in a year, from 2019 to 2021, you're going to have 100 billion dinars, so an enormous number, a larger investment in health care, and that's without investments related to the Public Investment Management Office where I read all the projects that are being done two days ago, and that's an additional 15.2 billion dinars. Next year money was provided for the Institute for Mother and Child “Dr. Vukan Čupić” equipment, Institute of Oncology, equipment also, “Dedinje II” works, General Hospital in Arandelovac, Municipality Hospital in Loznica, Institute of Infectious and Tropic Diseases in Belgrade, General Hospital in Surdulica, Novi Sad Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and Home of Health Novi Sad, Home of Health Valjevo, Veliko Gradište, Vrnjačka Banja, Institute of Public Health Kraljevo, Home of Health Majdanpek, General Hospital Smederjevska Palanka, General Hospital Vranja, General Hospital Kikinda, Pirot and Prokuplje, a total of 15.2 billion. On these 386,3, we come up with a huge amount of health-related money, which shows the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia to further strengthen the health system. We've invested a lot of money not just this year, but in previous years. We did a historic thing, so in four months we built a whole new hospital in Batajnica. Here's a dozen days from now, and there's a bunch of hospitals in Krusevec, so huge things. We also managed to raise salaries to medical workers in April 10%, and then plus a one-time aid of 10,000 dinars, and here's now from January 1st, an even 5% increase in their profits. I just wanted to make it right for you. Otherwise, if I'm not mistaken, you also mentioned rare diseases. I had a special meeting with the director of the RFO and with the people who deal with these diseases. We together established a budget for 2021 and the money they asked for was in the same amount and defined in the 2021 budget, so we fully respected what they asked us to do. It is very important to me that the citizens of Serbia understand. Everything we can do for our health care, work to save lives, work to strengthen our system, get the necessary equipment, the necessary medications, and reconstruct and build what unfortunately these before us haven't painted once since the day that all these hospitals and institutions were made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1436	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1437	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am very pleased that you have just reported to this amendment, in fact, you have given an excellent introduction and I must use it and thank it, first of all, and your efforts, the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the efforts of our prime minister, Ana Brnabic, and above all, thanks to everything that the Serbian people and the state of Serbia have done, President Aleksandar Vukic, who has been practically since the beginning of this pandemic, so since March of the month, it seems to me that every second, 24 hours, seven days in the week, has been dealing with this fight. We won this fight, in fact, on two levels. What you mentioned about health centres and systems that we have strengthened, which we have built for years behind us and especially, this billion that we will invest in future times, just as we continue to develop medical centres, hospitals, homes of health and all that you have counted, of course, which is currently and now in construction has actually made it possible for us to fight for the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because if we had not had an economic victory, that we had no economic outcome, that we had the situation we had in 2010, 2011, 2012, I am not sure how we would have had the situation today, and you know that many people wanted for Serbia, all kinds of scenarios. They wanted the Italian script, they wanted the Spanish script, it was all those who fought, in fact, at the moment the entire nation rose uniquely and rose up in the fight against the Coronus virus, one part of the opposition, decorated in the leadership of Dragan Gilas and his puppets, not for the health of people's lives, but for the victory of the Coronus virus, for any way that would shake the state system of Serbia, which would shake and make Serbia's health system bow down and disable, practically, the struggle for the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It was those who wanted these scenarios that we looked at in some other, perhaps even more developed countries in Serbia that you didn't see, because the Serbian and Serbian states won in a Serbian way, which is work, effort and diligence. If we hadn't had fiscal consolidation in 2014, when our pensioners with the most hearing, indeed, recognized that at some point they had to help their country, we wouldn't be talking about today that during the crown of the crisis, when the whole world, practically, falls to its knees in economic terms, we can raise wages, we can increase pensions, we can build hospitals, medical centres, we can import vaccines. In fact, there is no limit for Serbia when it comes to the lives of its citizens. All of this wouldn't be possible if some Dragan Gilas at a time when 619 million were quite simple mathematics to come and put into his pockets, it wouldn't be possible, because, you know how, we saw on a case of certain, I say again, a puppet, because it seems to me that everything that Marinika says, everything that Miroslav Aleksic says, everything that all these people who are around Dragan Gilas, who are practically just tools in everything that Dragan Gilas thinks is, we saw that their calculation and methodology are always the same. Whatever was added or taken away, and mostly they were subtracting, we came up with 619 million that Dragan Gilas was putting in his pockets. We also had the opportunity to hear this budget attack, how projected 6% of next year's growth is being denied by different, even some institutions. We had the opportunity here to listen to what their arguments were, and we saw that there was nothing but political pamphlets written by those to whom Dragan Gilas dictated what should be written, and we know very well who this is about. We also saw Miroslav Aleksic the other day, and you, ministers, made an excellent observation, a very funny calculation, and that is the calculation that actually led Serbia to the fact that from 2012 and 2014, we, on the other hand, really had to take a household account of our budget in order to enable Serbia to create new jobs, open factories and what is really the most difficult thing for us today, and this is the rise of our health system, and they did not manage to turn, but they did not manage to build absolutely any one. Well, my colleagues have noticed, it would be good if Dragan Gilas were 619 million, which we know of, and you heard today Mr. Bakerec, who knows how much we really don't know about the business of Dragan Gilas and what will only be discovered in the future. I heard today that even the court banned the conversation, that is to say, on this issue of the Dragan Gilas commission on the Bridge of Ada, but it certainly only says that we have to get to the truth. If we need to talk about it here, in this room every day, we'll talk about it too. We will discuss not only Dragan Gilas, but we will fight every form of crime and mafia and all those who brought Serbia to its knees. Where would Serbia be today if we inherited a healthy budget? It is certainly to get even better results and to certainly have the opportunity to cope with perhaps less effort, with less denial for some of the things that we have in front of us today. But to return to Miroslav Aleksic. I was extremely interested in his calculation, which really defines how the whole click actually thinks and in what way they actually plan on going on and what it really is in their head that our budget, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the public funds that whenever Dragan Gilas somehow comes to them, it seems to me that the citizens are in fear that they will be left without them. So Alexic told us, in fact, how he was taught, that is, how his boss Dragan Djilas actually taught him how to count. This looks like this: 31 billion dollars, and it talks about public debt and budgets, when 31 billion are reduced, or 15 billion dinars are taken away, you get 16 billion euros. It's all quite... Of course, it's been dozens of years between that, so we understand this calculation that is quite certain in the pockets of those who have learned, and Aleksic among other things, in the meantime, that counts that way. We know, it's clear where that money ends. What I would ask next, Alexic, and he had the opportunity to perform various functions within the public authority, among other things, since we saw that the bill did not know or at least not that calculation that was healthy and that would benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would ask – what about dozens of euro mills that blended into private pockets while Aleksic was raiding the public offices, and I will remind you, was also the president of Tristenik municipality? What about the apparent robbery during the construction of the sports hall in the elementary school in the village of Poljna, murky shops in the JKP "Počevina" headed by Miroslav Aleksic for two years? What about the unintentional spending of loans taken by the municipality for the alleged construction of an industrial zone through the company West Morava, amounting to as much as 60.68 million dinars transferred to the company and never used for the industrial zone? I remind you, Alexic was the president of the municipality at the time. Oh are the data provided by the official auditor in his report. So this isn't anything she said or picked up from the Internet portal or Twitter in the way they do it and how they deal with their policies. So, these are all the auditor reports and I'm going to ask the prosecution one more time if we should wait for them to ban us, like in this case Dragan Gilas, when we can't talk about the commission he apparently got to build the Bridge on Ada, is the same silence clause provided for Miroslav Aleksic? The auditor also found that the local communities of Tristenik Municipality during the haughtiness of the municipality's president, Miroslav Aleksic, paid for and recorded fuel consumption, although they had no cars at all. So, from the local community, to other companies that are publicly owned by the Republic of Serbia, and hence, one terrible network of lies, deceptions and crime, which is a pure thief, who has contributed to the fact that six workers in Triestenik have been rejected for seven years by part of the profits that have been made on self-increasing, and the money has never been paid to the local communities that have managed these companies. The auditor also found that it was actually a water park project, i.e. aqua park, for which the state only paid over 55 million dinars for the first stage of work. The poor Alexic, practically, you can't scratch for anything he touched, and there's no trace there, an obvious clue about the thief's identity. It's particularly interesting, but I'll leave it for another time, because now we're really talking about the budget, and when you talk about money and the Marinika Tepic case, especially the Dragan Djilas case, you can't even mention family ties. In the case of Miroslav Aleksic, it is very interesting and special consideration would be given to the family-based fund from which Aleksic's father-in-law, Ljubisa Knezevic, moved to the National Employment Service, and then with his brother-in-law and daughter-in-law, the son-in-law of Miroslav Aleksic, who remained in the fund, made millions of contracts, so millions belonging to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, all of this we mention here are the parts of certain reports that were in front of the prosecution at some point, and this time I ask the prosecution to really do its job, to start working and to deal with the mantras in which way journalists who are in charge of writing when they reveal the truth objectively, how they will forbid writing about it, but to deal with their work and to carry out evidence, to perform witnesses they obviously have and who are willing to speak and finally get to how Dragan Gilas acquired 619m euros, in which way each of these puppets, which is next to his laps, stood in serious millionaires. I am sincerely looking forward to a law that we will consider here in the next period, about the origin of the property of politicians, where we will be very clearly able to, hopefully, examine how they all came to their millions and their wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1438	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP Nenad Krstic, after the amendment, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1439	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since I come from one of the southernmost municipalities in the state of Serbia, the Shop, and I would like to stress that the policy of Alexander Vukic, which we represent and support, has been supported by 95%, which says that only with Alexander Vukic's policy can we move forward. This is the budget for every resident of the Republic of Serbia, and for us, the MPs and the parliamentary group to which we belong, we give full support. I want to apostrophe a few facts. I believe that the amendment submitted by the MPs of the United Valley is without any basis. If the entire Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government has 460 million to distribute funds in competitions for local self-government units, and that the co-ordination body for only three municipalities has 297 million, I think the funds should be transferred to the Ministry of State Administration, since both Trgovište and Presevo and Bujanovac and Bosilegrad are in the same category of underdeveloped. This is only a way to promote Albanian structures, or their parties, so that they can function more easily on their territory. I believe that these funds are not used for the benefit of all citizens in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji. I don't know what about the funds when it comes to the Bujanovac municipality, because 70% of the Bujanovac municipality's territory is covered by Serb villages. The funds for these environments are significantly smaller than those for Albanian environments. Also, I think that if we have the same categorization of the local self-government unit, I repeat that the Municipality of Trgovište belongs to the fourth group of undeveloped and devastated areas, there is no reason for such a transfer. If the entire ministry has 460 million to distribute, for three municipalities of 300 million, I think Mr. Cambery is a little over-requested in the demand for additional funding for these municipalities. I will also refer to the fact that when Mr. Kamberi is a little bit, I come from southern Serbia, so I have to present a few more facts, said pasivisation, so he can't be at one of the addresses where the 50 Albanian shed is registered from Kosovo so that they can increase the artificial population of southern Serbia, as far as the Albanian population is concerned. Also, I want to point out one more thing, as long as the Serb community participated in the executive, legislative authority in Bujanovac and Presevo there was another. As long as the Serbs were represented in the local government in Presevo, it functioned. What happened? Local self-government units have been disbanded, although 90% of the council members belong to Albanian populations, i.e. Albanian parties. I would also like to point out that the Coordination Body is just a flow boiler that is funded by projects that are served by local self-government units. If the Co-ordination Body were directly financing projects in all municipalities, it wouldn't be a problem. It is here that three municipalities receive far greater resources than the other municipalities found in the fourth group of undeveloped. I believe that the funds at the Capital Investment Co-ordination Body, 297 million, should be transferred to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and all under the same roof together to redeploy funds so that other municipalities can use funds and develop their units of local self-government. I welcome the 2021 budget, given that the minister has decidently made, and I welcome capital investments, because the benefits of Serbian citizens will certainly be seen, and primarily in increasing pensions and profits and, of course, increasing our country's GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1440	Thanks, buddy. Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1441	Madam Chairman, I think you were obliged to interrupt the speaker because he injured Article 106(1). - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The search is being conducted on the amendment of the Government, not on the amendment of our parliamentary group, and I think the previous speaker made a mistake. As far as the Co-ordination Body is concerned, the existence of the Coordination Body is a 2001 obligation of the Republic of Serbia when a programme and plan of the then federal and republican government to resolve the crisis in the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja were adopted, and as such it is certain that it cannot be annulled because of one speech. Yes, eight million is lower in the Coordination Body this year than in the planned budget last year, but we have reduced 20% of the co-ordination body's funds for capital investments this year. The municipalities received 10 million from the current budget reserve, but if Bujanovac was taken down 23 million and 700 somewhere, he received 10 million again this year, Bujanovac was damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1442	Thanks, buddy. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. I owe you one explanation. Do you even know what the amendment proposed by the government is? Have you read that amendment? The second thing is, you've been replicating your colleagues, and in the second part you took advantage of what I've given you the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, so you've just misused the word for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1443	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, we in the SNS and in the principle debate have stressed that we will strongly support the 2021 draft budget and voting day, of course, we will vote for it. The draft budget makes it clear that this budget is precisely planned, ministers, designed to respond to the challenges of the global economic crisis, too, has its development component, but also a significant social component, i.e. it is aimed at raising the standard of living for our citizens. This is best discussed by the planned pension increase and the planned increase in the minimum wage price, as well as the increase in wages in the public sector, without jeopardising macroeconomic stability. Minister, I'd like to subdue some things right away. So we have a 2020 that marked the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, which makes the whole world, in a way, in an emergency situation or in an emergency and subsequently economic crisis. The crisis has rocked and threatened to destroy a much stronger economy than the state of Serbia. Nevertheless, we stand out over 330 billion for capital investments, for highways, for corridors, railways, railways, railways, traffic, etc. Despite the terrible economic crisis, we raise salaries in the public sector, we increase the price of minimum earnings, we increase pensions, and we don't increase debt compared to GDP. I ask – is there another example in the world, is there such an example that some country in this crisis, caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, increases wages and pensions? I admit I don't know about any such example in the world, but I'm asking you, are there any such examples? Now, if someone's trying to tell me this isn't a success, I have to admit, it's either extremely malice or it doesn't know anything about it. You, ministers, as well as our authorised representative, Col. Tomic, have presented the most important elements of the proposed budget, in all segments, but what I would specifically single out are actually greater separations for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, both when it comes to equipment, vehicle procurement, the modernisation of arms and military equipment, military technology, and when it comes to repairing the material position of members of the Army. That's where I'd agree with the Secretary of Defense when he says - if we want to have an army, we have to have soldiers. I think that's one of the top priorities. I think that is very important, that we must keep soldiers who will be well equipped and satisfied with their material status and cannot, in this respect, without commending the Serbian president's initiative and about an additional 10% salary increase for members of the Serbian Army. This increase, as we have heard, will not be linear to everyone, but, let me say, will be affected by those whose receipts so far have been the lowest. So, soldiers by contract, professional soldiers, corporals, corporals, whether or not, junior sergeants, officers, etc. So we have a regular 5% increase for everyone in the public sector, and then another 10% increase for these categories that I've listed. You'll admit, at this point, it's not a little small and it shows the state's determined attitude to take care of its soldiers. So these people are day and night on the defender of our country, not running away from the challenge, do not run away from danger and deserve to be given special recognition and special respect, and it is therefore important to send a message that the state highly appreciates the sacrifice of its soldiers. All that we've done so far, all the results so far, all the successes, all the plans for 2021, all that's good, everything that's affirmative, everything that's constructive, everything that's constructive, you won't hear in the news, you won't hear in the information shows of some media, it's mostly those media that are controlled by Dragan Gilas, that I don't name them now, know well the citizens of Serbia who are media, there are quite. For them, this, how can I tell you, Minister, will not be news. This won't matter to them. It is important to them, and they will do, if possible, to remove a sentence from the context from us, from the MPs here, so that they can mount it in their contributions, so that they can continue to lead a monstrosity against the MPs of the SNS. All they do in the last days and weeks is actually campaign and hacks against individual SNS MPs, primarily I think of Mr Atlagic, as well as our colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja, as well as other SNS MPs. And all with one very corrupt and very perfidious replacement of thesis, in which the victim is actually made guilty. Here's what it looks like. I have chosen only a few titles from the portals of those media that are under the control of Dragan Gilas, and Serbian citizens know well what the media is, so I will not say what the media is. If I may, I should ask the cameraman to show, “Atlagic doesn’t exactly come out of his hands to be normal. ” So this is the title, this is an article on the web portal of an influential media in Serbia, I won't say which one, but under the control of Dragan Gilas, "Atlagic is not very good at being normal." Professor, I apologize for reading this, but I want the citizens of Serbia to see who's actually the victim here and who's to blame. "Atlagic is not very good at being normal." The same media, second article, second title: "Marco Atlagic profile of one recipient". Repeatedly, since the cameraman does not want to increase this: "Marco Atlagic profile of a recipient". Other media, but also under the control of Dragan Djilas, says, "A certain Atlagic attacked an actress." Let's move on. Another medium, also controlled by Dragan Djilas, says, "Marko Atlagic: Doctor of insults". Another medium, also controlled by Dragan Gilas, says, "The assembly has become a viber group for insults." Earth, swallow us: a director commented, I will not mention his name and name. Another medium says: "I would have cried even more – the front page is, Marko Atlagic is the main topic – if I had known about his presence in the convoy." Now, there they are trying to twist the mockery of the fact that Mr. Atlagic shared the fate of the Serbian people in the criminal action "Storm", so he says – I would have cried even more if I had known of his presence in the convoy. Another medium, this is now on social networks and it's sponsored, you'll notice, and that's a special topic, Minister, for you, in some future period, if it's possible to deal with a lot of sponsoring of social media posts, and that's a very expensive work. I just want to run for one of the topics that you should deal with in the future. So, where do I get the money from various portals, in my humble opinion, I think it's thousands and thousands of euros for the daily sponsoring of their social media publications? Do they pay taxes on that? He says: “Today, in the Assembly, there is a push-out note for a certain Mark Atlagic, who is in charge of the promoter’s spitter. ” Another portal, also sponsored on social networks, I don't know of which money, says: "The SNS payer in the Assembly earned 28,000 euros in our money." Watch out how lame this is. Be careful how much this doesn't have any scruples or morals. He says -- the on-call SNS spitter in the Assembly earned 28 000 euros in our money, and then they add up all of Marko Atlagic's receipts, total monthly receipts, in all mandates, and then they calculate and show that Marko Atlagic earned 28 000 euros. Then who's the target here? Who draws targets on their foreheads? Who's the victim here? Next, some Rakic, the deputy president of what remains of the Democratic Party, says, "Atlagic has returned the Assembly to the Radical Age." I guess that's what she was trying to do in some way to offend him. Imagine, says the party's vice president, fighting some two groups, and killing each other in a meeting! Well, she found someone to honor. And a bunch of such and similar articles, directed only and exclusively to campaign against SNS MPs. I would like to congratulate you, Mr Atlagic, on my personal behalf, and I also believe in the name of most MPs in the National Assembly, Mr Atlagic, to thank you for the extraordinary courage you have shown and to congratulate you on your endurance and on your desire to fight together with Alexander Vukić and with all of us and continue fighting for a successful, better and orderly Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1444	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is Boris Bursac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1445	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, despite the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus all over the world, including in Serbia, have found themselves in front of us these days very promising, but also optimistic draft laws. First of all, I am thinking of a draft budget law for 2021, but also of amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. These proposals envision a strong recovery of Serbia, but also a slight economic growth of 6% of GDP next year. So, when the world's largest economies record stagnation or mild recovery from 3% to 3.4%, Serbia is heading towards 6% of GDP growth. Look, it's not my random prognosis, it's official data from all of the world's relevant institutions, like the IMF, like the World Bank, like the European Commission. When I talk about the 2021 draft budget, it is important to note that it is directly directed in two directions – towards raising citizens' standards, as well as increasing capital investments. What is also important and what I must stress is that this draft budget is in line with our government's pre-set objectives. So, it is the fight against the crown of the virus and strengthening the health system, the fight for the interests of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against organised crime and corruption, the preservation of independence and independent decision-making of Serbia, the rule of law and the acceleration of reforms, especially on the European path, as well as Serbia's economic progress. Every penny our country saves, it directly invests in investment, but also in a better standard of citizens. The evidence of this finding of mine is the fact in the draft budget that says that as many as 330 billion dinars have been allocated for capital projects. The same budget proposal, i.e. amendments to the Budgetary System Act, envisions an increase of 5.9% in pensions from January 1st, a 5.9% increase in minimum earnings of 6.6%, a 5% increase in health workers, as well as other public sector employees, to reach the desired level from 1 April 2021 to 5%. Thus, this increases demand for goods and services and supports the level of economic activity and thus achieves this projected growth of 6%. Also, I must stress that such budget proposals would not be possible without previously agreed constructive and perhaps difficult measures. First of all, I mean fiscal consolidation, first of all, I think of four consecutive surpluses that the Republic of Serbia had, but also of a package of economic measures aimed at easing the effects of the virus's covids during 2020, which is the fact that conditions for faster economic recovery have been created, but also at achieving this mild growth in 2021. I must stress that in the first 10 months of 2020, we have an inflow of 1.9 billion euros from foreign investment, which is even over 60% of total investment in the entire Western Balkans region. We have thus proved that Serbia is the development centre in the region, but also that it is attractive to foreign investors. I sincerely hope, Mr. Minister, that this level of investment will continue in the following year, but as a representative of the Zemun municipality, I hope that a good part of these investments will end up in Zemun. The important fact is that these proposals and their own evidence that we are not giving up on the promises we made to the citizens in the election campaign. So all the forces are working to meet the "Serbia 2025" plan. Investments in infrastructure projects continue, new foreign investments are attracted, we are working on salary growth and pensions, we are working on building numerous traffic stations, railway infrastructure is reconstructed, we are trying to get every village in Serbia to get a water and sewerage network, invests in education, invests in new sports centres, builds and equips many health facilities. We had a chance to see how one of the most modern hospitals in Batajnica was built in just four months. It is also aimed at strengthening and stability of the dinars, but also at strengthening and equipping Serbia's army, as the only guarantee of peace and stability in the region. So this draft budget meant all aspects of its being, i.e. functioning and doing its best to be a leading force in the region, but also to overcome some members of the European Union. I myself, and I hope my colleagues will also support these proposals in the hope that they will be the foundation and pillar for strong, modern and healthier Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1446	I thank my colleague. By amendment of Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1447	Dear Vice-President, Mr Mali, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Honored citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 8. The Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the 2021 amendment, I support the amendment. Why? Because this correction allows us to schedule the financial resources allocated to Kosovo and Metohija properly, in order to realise the policy established and run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of Kosovo and Metohija on the incentive and on the request of many citizens, many citizens have come forward to intervene. What's the word? In fact, former MP Balsa Bozovic reported from Maldiv again in one media controlled by Dragan Djilas and Solak, who said, quote -- everyone knows that Kosovo was definitely lost in 1999, finished a quote. And not only that, in the same media under the control of Dragan Gilas and Šolak accused the current government of conducting a large Serbian policy in Belgrade – Podgorica – Banja Luka. This is how Balsa Bozovic placed himself in defense of the Serb and Serb people in the diaspora, wherever she lives. And not just that. In the same text, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, rather than fiercely attacking the SPC, as you saw. I must say, according to Resolution 1244, Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to an oath former MEP Balsa Bozovic took, I think, twice as much in this high house. However, he forgot that on July 27th of each year, Pristina celebrates the date. Why the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Because she got a legal argument from the International Court of Justice to push her independence to the end. Thanks to Gilas Jeremic, she got it. There are others who were at that time. Albania's leadership considers Gilas's Jeremic and Balsa's Jeremic to be the creator of the most important paper in the hands of so-called. Kosovo's independence. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister and Madam Vice President, Balsa Bozovic is a pathological liar. Look, I don't have a problem with saying that and proving it to you, or you're gonna get a fake news distributor. That's not just me, Mr. Secretary. That's what the European community says. In a study called – Mapping False News and Disinformation in the Western Balkans, done for the European Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee, it is said that the largest distributor of false news in the Western Balkans in the opposition is Balsa Bozovic. Dear People's MPs, so I ask Balša Bozovic to at least apologize for all the lies, for all the insults he has spoken in the last at least four years about the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his brother, his family, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the individual ministers, especially Dr Alexander Martinovic and Dr Vladimir Orlic, Milorad Dodik, and especially Sinod SPC and many others, not to mention. This is very important, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as I am now going to say, and distinguished MPs, Balsa Bozovic or your Bozovic, as he will, has established the Academy of Democracy in the Western Balkans with a centre in Novi Sad, imagine, probably for spreading disinformation, as the European community warned. The centre of his Academy is in Novi Sad and, behold, one of the main lecturers besides many is Božić Bogicevic, a well-known citizen whose voice is broken by SFRY and is not the only one. There's more. I'm not gonna list them all right now. You know very well, distinguished citizens and distinguished MPs, that very often when I talk about media attacks, starting with the President of the Republic to ordinary citizens, I always try to bring out the facts. For all those lies that have been made not in my name, I can do so further, but other honourable Members of the people, I will end up with one quote, and before I say that the criticism of the media is good, but the criticism, I underline, is based on the truth of the facts. Everything else is a criticism. It is a distribution of false news, such as Balša Bozovic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and the electric political rabbit Dragan Djilas – Marinika Tepic and many others. To all of you, gentlemen, who are engaged in the distribution of false news, especially those who have sworn in this high house, that they will spread the truth, and not a lie, I answer the quote from 1953, the chief of staff in the "New York Times" which I quote -- and let all those who are these days and these years, ala Balša Bozovic, Dragan Djilas and many others who have been spreading lies, I quote -- the job of the journalist is to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to abuse, to worship the golden calf and to sell their own country and people to earn bread. Everybody knows that. We're the tools of a rich man's servant behind the scenes. Who's hiding behind the scenes of Dragan Gilas? Let all those analysts, so to speak, be recognized. analysts and journalists who do not present the facts these days and add further to that quote – we are puppets, they draw ends, and we dance. Our talent, our opportunities, our lives, the property of other people and the last sentence, we are intellectual prostitutes, finished quote. And finally, once again, I ask Balša Bozovic for all the insults he has spoken and spread lies in this high house, especially about the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his brother and his family, the honourable MPs, Dr Aleksandr Martinović and Dr Vlad Orlic and many others not to list them, the MPs, to gather so much courage, to apologize at least. So I'm not saying this, this says, you've seen this study of the European Community, who's lying, is stealing. We used to learn that, or our students and students learn that in logic, in high school, I don't want to talk anymore. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is no force to stop MPs from carrying citizens' interests and defending the truth in this high house. Well, I'm not gonna let a Dragan Gilas shut me up, let him tell the truth, let him deal with me wherever he wants, so he couldn't do it in The Hague. Here I am also ordering him the chairman of the Robinson Court and if his authority is now telling him, my smallness at the entrance of the Faculty of Philosophy in Nis, eight days before she left, did what she did with the car. Let him serve his honor, we won't do it. We will not spread false news, but rather deal with the truth and no one can stop Serbia from modernising in these difficult times of the pandemic by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of MPs in this high house and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I know they're in pain now, my political opponents, but the engine of accelerated mobilization is the president of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. I know it hurts, but you can't stop me from saying it, say it, whether or not it is, and I have to finish this. You critics, or critics who say in Gilas' media, under his control that I said in this high house a sentence that the time will be measured by the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, of course I did, but you forgot other things. I have said since his coming to power in this high house, that you see, as MP Markovic said, how you have abused, since his arrival and before coming, what happened before the arrival, what happened to the state - destroyed, infrastructure, economy, etc., and by coming to power Serbia goes into modernization. Not to count now, to see some journalists under the control of Dragan Gilas falsify. Of course time will be measured. So, before coming and after, and his arrival is the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. Now that I've taken the floor, allow me, because Mr. Sinisha Mali, you often say and invite yourself to 2014 and that exposé. Of course it is, thank you, because you're safe, responsible and best minister. They've been in pain for the last 20 years, which you notice and what you know and what you're probably one, not likely, but certainly the creator of that document. That document is very important. On 200 and some sides. Journalists, so-called I've been petrified for saying it's the best exposé, the government program since the 1804th year, and the one who writes daily fiction, comes here in front of this bench and asks how do I know. I'm saying, you need to study all the exposés, how much you've done, two months and go to the Maldives and to the sea. So, exactly what you said, that's the point, that's a twist and that's what time is going to be measured by. Prior to Alexander Vukic's arrival in power and after his arrival, when Serbia is experiencing reforms and modernisation and is being saved from bankruptcy. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1448	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is from the MP Nikola Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1449	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, I propose that the amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the 2021 Budget Law be adopted, as these amendments aim to better coordinate for the realisation of capital projects, and one of the important capital projects is the modernisation of railways, the transition to renewable energy sources, efficient energy efficiency and cleaner fuel, as well as improving living conditions on KIM and the functioning of all institutions in our southern province. Serbian citizens must know that despite today's current pandemic caused by the coronary virus and the biggest economic crisis that has hit the whole world, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided for the adoption of the 2021 budget exactly as it is, and that is the development budget covering all capital investments that are of great importance to our country. In addition to these capital investments, the government of the Republic of Serbia has increased pensions by 5.9% since 1 January next year, in the public sector it increases salaries by 3.5% since April by 1.5%, leading to a total increase in the public sector by 5%. We are witnessing that in the health care that today is the foundation and that protects our lives, we have done a lot of work and that wages have increased through various stimulations to all healthcare professionals, but we expect an increase in salaries and healthcare for all healthcare professionals since 1 January 2021. The serious investment of our country in health care and health system suggests that the priority of all priorities is the health of citizens and the care of citizens. That is why this budget envisions a huge investment in infrastructure, hospital construction, renovation and reconstruction of existing hospitals, as well as the provision of new medical equipment. Mr. Minister explained that together with the RFO and the Ministry of Health, he made a very important decision, as far as prevention is concerned. I would like to welcome this proposal, because prevention is very important in order to avoid and detect serious diseases at an early stage. In particular, the budget has put an emphasis on the economy, the creation of new values, as well as service activities. After a set of economic measures that we have had since April of this year, which were aimed at just preserving production capacities, our entire economy, maintaining living standards and ensuring the liquidity of all businesses and linear assistance that I have talked about before continues economic development and continuing economic measures that are directed at individual sectors, but are also directed at private sectors, which is of great importance. The majority of the budget is just aimed at supporting the economy, major investment, the development of entrepreneurship and the improvement of business infrastructure. The power of a country is seen in how strong its economy is, and how strong its army is. For years, we have invested in Serbia's Army, a dedicated industry, which, from an inherited almost ruined state, has grown into a serious, professional army that has returned its glow, and the domestic dedicated industry has justified its existence and has proved to be of great importance to our country. That's why the 2021 budget, compared to 2020, has defined funds for nearly seven billion dinars where this budget allows for additional equipment and modernisation of our army, but also an increase in the standard of living for members of the Serbian Army. With a draft budget law for 2021, the MUP also has defined funds higher than in 2020 by almost 4.3 billion dinars, which also places an emphasis on the accelerated improvement of the material status of employees in the MUP, but also on the modernisation of personal equipment and material resources. In particular, I must stress that the state of Serbia cares about KIM and our citizens living there, but also cares about all Serbs in the diaspora where serious resources are allocated to preserve our integrity, cultural heritage and improve our lives. In the end, I would like to conclude that regardless of the situation today and the consequences of the pandemic, and thanks to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 when we carried out heavy reforms, led by today's President Aleksandar Vukic, we have just created these conditions for a budget that is higher in all areas compared to 2020 and that, in addition to the biggest crisis, we will have the lowest GDP decline in Europe under the projection of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission. I would add that this budget lays a very strong foundation and is based on the "Serbia 2025" plan. That this budget is exactly the nation-wide budget, but that is also why it is the target of on-call critics, various tycoons, various Gilasovians who are making budget money that used to end up in their pockets when there were increasingly richer and Serbian citizens increasingly poor. Unfortunately for them, Serbian citizens remember the period of their rule well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1450	Thank you. The word is Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1451	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm reporting for the amendment, but I'll look back a few years. In 2014, I became a national MP. Since then, I have been on the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. It's a very important year for me, but it's also a year when we started implementing the difficult economic measures of fiscal consolidation. That's when we were in the budget deficit. After difficult economic measures we came by 2016, four years in a row we have a surplus in the budget. We also met in 2020, her first quarter with a surplus as well. The only ones who believed in such difficult economic measures were citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And I'm gonna use this way to thank them. In 2020, when the world was ruled by the pandemic, our country reacted to economic measures and in this way, not because we... We were ready to act that way, because we were so economically strengthened, we achieved economic growth and we achieved one of the best results in 2020, in the year the world struggles to save people's lives and the economy, in the year of the great pandemic. Our money is stable, our inflation is stable, and of course our unemployment rate is stable. We have a 2021 budget ahead of us. In addition to well-designed public income and public expenditure, citizens' standards as well as capital investments and investments are also taken into account. In parallel, we will increase pensions, of course minimum earnings, as well as salaries in the public sector, but we will also take care of investments in infrastructure, highways, railways, energy plants, as well as investment in strengthening the defence and security of the state. In addition, this proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget will create conditions for the faster recovery of our economy and the achievement of considerable dynamic economic growth in the period when the whole world is affected by the Kovid 19 pandemic. This finding is confirmed in its reports by the IMF, as well as by the World Bank. The proposed budget will also be stimulating for foreign investors, as significant funds can be seen in 2021 will be allocated for regional development, I would like to say to reduce the disproportional gap in our country's past decades. It must not leave out a certain part that is set aside in the 2021 budget for KIM institutions and institutions. When all of this can be added, with this budget projected for 2021, public debt will be under absolute control, it represents a particularly qualitative dimension, macroeconomic stability and business environment in our country. Dear Ministers, we have a goal ahead of us. We have six of them, and one of them is strengthening our country's economics. We are aware that we cannot do this without the private sector, so the Serbian government and you as a respected minister, in this year when the pandemic hit us, reacted very quickly and efficiently with economic measures. You've been very helpful to the private sector. You have allowed the private sector through the Development Fund to have the possibility of a loan, to raise a loan at a very low rate, a credit rate that is about 1%, not around, but exactly 1%. You've made it possible to pay three whole minimum wagers and 60% of the two minimumers. Now you've helped and delayed, of course I won't forget and postpone tax and contribution payments and you've made it possible for 24 wars to pay that tax. Then, together in agreement with the National Bank, you made it possible to fight for credit both physically and privately, in fact, legal persons to postpone the war on credit. Now you've given plus these measures to economics, one minimum of hotelers, hosts, tourist organisations and rents to organizations. I expect and our President Aleksandar Vukic announced that in 2021 we will also help some economic measures in the private sector. Because without a strong private sector, we will not be able to meet one of the most important objectives and that is the economic strengthening of our country. Our goal is to achieve Europe's greatest summation in the next two years. The plan ahead of us is 2025 which, of course, we will achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1452	Thank you. Olja Petrović applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1453	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would like to say at the very beginning that in the voting day together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children to whom I belong, we will support the amendment to Article 1 which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted, for the same reasons as the Proposer stated in his explanation. What I want to point out and what we see, since the SNS came to power, has been acting responsibly towards every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who deserves to know where and how their money is spent. We can also see this in this debate through the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, as well as the draft final budget bill for the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which has become a practice since last year. Recently, data appeared, and first of all in this high house was discussed by counterpart Mirkovic, and today, counterpart Bakarec and co-worker Christmas and urged them to be listed by the competent institutions, that a consultant firm in Greece was paid to as much as 2.5m euros, and then a total of eightm euros in money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia for so-called. help build a bridge on Ada. I have to point out that the company that's mentioned isn't even in construction. I am now thinking, and I share this thinking with you, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how many of these suspicious costs were during the rule of the tycoon that were in power before the SNS. I'm thinking about how many of these suspicious costs were during the tycoon rule that were in power before the SNS. I am thinking, perhaps because of these and similar, at the very least, unwarranted spending of funds, Serbia, before Alexander Vukic and SNS arrived, was in front of bankruptcy with an empty state register and with locks on companies that employed thousands of workers. Have our citizens lost bread because of these spendings? Could it be that instead of building kindergartens and hospitals, the money went into the pockets of Dragan Gilas, who, in just a few years' time, was in power, put in his pocket for us ordinary citizens of unimaginable 619,000,000 euros. I wonder, and I believe that you, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in this period, for the first time in history, have taken on the greatest burden of the crisis and thus made it possible for the economy to continue to live. Does anyone wonder if it would have been possible if the crisis had happened only a few years ago and before the SNS came to power? The answer is that it certainly wouldn't be possible, if we hadn't led a responsible policy in the past years with Alexander Vukic, that we hadn't gone through a series of difficult reforms, and that we hadn't treated our finances domestically and thus achieved a surplus in the budget four years in a row. When we look back and create a retrospective from March of this year, we see that the state reacted in due time and reacted resolutely, that the negative effects of the crisis fall to a minimum. The state has realised a number of aid measures, but it does not care, so in mid-December, another minimum profit will be paid for all those in the catering industry, which includes catering workers, renting agencies, tourist guides and hotelers, and besides, another aid will be paid, one-time pensioners worth 5,000 dinars. The country's total aid along with these new measures and since the start of the Kovdi 19 pandemic will be 700 billion dinars or six billion euros, which is 12.7% of our GDP. There are few countries in the world that have implemented such strong and strong measures. In addition, our public debt is below 60% of GDP in the budget for this year and next year's budget. If we have responded well, not only do we say, the IMF and the European Commission also say. Serbia has seen the largest growth in this period, i.e. the smallest GDP decline, and it is planned that the GDP growth rate is 6% in 2021. As of January 1st, there will be an increase in pensions of 5.9% as well as a 5% increase in salaries for healthcare workers, as well as an increase in all public sector employees of 3.5%, with an additional 1.5% increase from April next year. Compared only in 2011 to 2020, nurses' salaries increased 63%, i.e. by 22,300 dinars, while the doctor's salary increased by 54.% and after this last increase would be around 103,000 dinars. Also, an additional increase for soldiers will be 10% since April of next year. I note that compared to 2012, earnings in Vojsca were increased by more than 40%, and besides, the Army is now equipped with the most modern means. Never more budget funding for 2021, is not foreseen for capital investments of as much as 330 billion dinars, which is 5.5% of GDP. It will continue to build roads, although we have already built 350km of roads, it will also continue to invest money in new industrial parks, as well as the reconstruction of railways such as the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway, but also the fast track from Belgrade to Novi Sad. What may be most important at this point will continue to be invested in health care. We have received two new Kovid hospitals in Batajnica that have already started with patient reception and in Kruševec, and only two other countries in the world can be praised, which is China and Russia. In addition, the 2021 budget also allocated funds for the construction of new health homes in Loznica, Arangelovac, Smederjevska Palanca and Vranja. Also planned is the continuation of the completion of the KC in Belgrade, as well as the construction of KCV in Novi Sad and KC in Kragujevac. For as many as 22 health institutions, reconstruction contracts have been signed, including the General Hospital in Piroth from which I come, totalling 5.2 billion dinars. The next year will begin construction of Belgrade's subway. I know that many citizens don't believe in building subways because they were promised this every year from 2009 to 2012, when the citizens' money was leaving, so maybe for 35 properties Goko Gilas in Belgrade's most recent city centre, which is measured by hectares and which we recently learned about. All these investments that are being realised encourage economic growth, people are being employed, and on the other hand they encourage private investments, so we had 1.9 billion foreign direct investments in the first nine months, which means that more than 60% of all that has entered the Western Balkans came to Serbia. In the last two to three years, we have been ranked number one by attracting foreign investment. Serbia precisely because of its crisis behaviour has shown that we can take care of stability, take care of the economy and thus become even more attractive to all future foreign investors. We will continue to lead Alexander Vukic to build a strong and economically strong country for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1454	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1455	Dear chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have a development budget ahead of us. When we analyse this draft budget, we can only come to the conclusion that both the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia took care of the interests of Serbian citizens, unlike some previous period before 2012, as regards the level of Serbia and as regards the city of Belgrade before 2014, which Mr Mali also knows very well as the minister of finance and earlier as mayor of Belgrade and has become familiar with various malversions and corruption affairs of his predecessors. I am primarily referring to the former mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas. Today we have a budget where the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are viewed exclusively. It is seen to be invested in health care, in education, in infrastructure, in all things necessary, in increasing wages and pensions. So this budget and this increase in pensions and this addition that our dear pensioners will receive, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia confirm that our oldest citizens, our seniors who have been building our country for decades and who have worked honestly during their working days, have been congratulated on leaving our younger people a regulated country. However, on their way, the orderly country was torn apart and wanted to destroy people such as Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and their political counterparts who still today are trying through their media in any way possible and threatening President Aleksandr Vukic and his family and insulting the Serbian Parliament, and to insult and attack my wonderful colleagues from the MPs' club, who, especially our younger and experienced ones, who want only what our task is, to work in the interests of both the Serbian and Serbian states. Let's get to the sectors. What makes me particularly happy is investing in health care. Analyzing this budget, I see that and how it's done, every dinar invested in health care is a dinar to save someone's life. I am particularly pleased that significant funds will be invested in the reconstruction and completion of the renovation of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, as well as clinical centres from other health institutions in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and other cities. Also, unlike before, when we have had various affairs and thieving and various thefts when it comes to road construction continues with Serbia's networking regarding modern, modern traffic routes, to connect the same and the west of our dear Serbia. Also, Serbia has shown with this budget that it takes care of both the Serb people and the KIM institutions, as well as the Republika Srpska brother. Serbia, as well as previous years, has allocated significant funds for investment and for Republika Srpska, and as for those parts of BiH where the majority Serb people live, which are located in the Federation of BiH. Of course, one of the biggest such infrastructure projects is the construction of a modern airport in Trebinj, which will only strengthen and strengthen Serbia and Republika Srpska's ties. I also want to commend all these investments that will be invested in the field of culture and sports. It was shown, and what Minister Sinisa Mali spoke of the day before yesterday, that literally all Olympic sports will be invested not only in sports programmes but also in the construction and modernisation of existing and new sports facilities and not only in Belgrade and Novi Sad, but throughout Serbia, which I hope the citizens will know they appreciate. In the end, it was also about enlightenment. I have seen that certain financial resources will also be invested in the renovation, reconstruction and construction of preschool and school institutions throughout our country, which confirms that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic and that they are taking care of our young. And with this budget, we have confirmed, and with this brilliant presentation of my colleagues from the parliamentary group and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Sinishi Malo and all the representatives of the government who spoke here in these three days, about our budget, it is confirmed that Serbia always has two times. Serbia has chosen this first time happily during these elections, and this is the way of the future, the way for our children, the way of respect for state and national interests and the way to stop both the mafia and corruption. Of course, we had a second time, this is the way of Dragan Gilas, fortunately, the citizens of Serbia have recognized the right path, that is the path of Alexander Vukic, and I hope that in the coming period the citizens will know that they also appreciate what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic is doing, that the budget should be filled, that the budget should be developed and that the economy of our country is taken care of, not that the budget of the Republic, cities and municipalities as Dragan Gilas and his associates have done, that the budget is used for discharge, for the sake of citizens and the state to fill their own pockets. So, Minister, every honor in this budget, given that the pandemic, caused by the coronary virus, hit not only Serbia, but Europe and the whole world. You have also shown thanks to the support of the president of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that a small Serbia, compared to the rest of the world, can lead a great financial policy and be at the top of Europe, as far as financial stabilisation is concerned now that it is difficult for us. Just keep it up and of course I'll vote for this budget in the voting day. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1456	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milljana Sakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1457	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have had the opportunity to, on several occasions, through statements from the most responsible people who lead our country, get confirmation of the significantly increased resources that have been allocated year by year in the field of social policy and health, as well as of the policy that the state has been constantly leading in these areas for eight years. Perhaps only now in these circumstances have we become aware of how important it really is. Today is the International Human Rights Day. At this point, I want to talk about the funds from the budget, which are defined for the support of people with disabilities, to raise the quality of their daily life, to achieve their rights, to look at opportunities, as well as more involvement in all areas of social life. The population of people with disabilities has been seen with different problems, and when someone says that what stands out is little or insufficient, it must be borne in mind that these investments have been significantly increased from year to year. Anyone who wanted to deal with this subject in more detail and to follow these givings in nominal terms knows exactly what I'm talking about and I wouldn't bother you with the numbers right now. This budget thus plans to increase educational and promotional activities related to improving the situation and rights of persons with disabilities. The number of units of local self-government in the accessibility award is steadily increasing, which will also contribute to better integration of people with disabilities, and there is room for subsidies for people with disabilities. I come from the middle, from the local self-government that, following the state's intensities and attitude towards people with disabilities, does a lot of work in this area, and I can proudly say that the co-operation of competent state authorities with local self-government, specifically with the town of Loznica, is extraordinary. The city of Loznica could, in that sense, be an example of good practice. As I belong to the disabled population myself, it was my intention to express satisfaction with the efforts that the state makes and encourages competent authorities and local self-government to make people with disabilities as visible as possible to create all kinds of conditions to meet their needs. You'll agree with me, they're no special needs, as used to be said, those are the needs that every member of our society has. In the end, it's up to us to create a society of equal odds for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1458	Thank you, Mrs. Sakic. All congratulations on your first address to the National Assembly. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1459	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I would first of all like to commend your relationship with this House of Commons. For the sixth or seventh time, you have been here in front of the MPs in the National Assembly, perhaps more than the president himself. As far as this is concerned, it is important to bring one spirit of transparency into the whole process of adoption and budget and final account for the previous year. As for the previous day, when we discussed the final account for 2019, it is certainly important to point out that in 2019 we had a year of infrastructure, we had a year when we and how much we worked on all those projects that were on hold for years. I'll remind you, that's the year we finally finished Corridor 10, so the eastern and southern arms of Corridor 10, we ended up completely Corridor 11, so the highway "Milos Veliki", Belgrade – Cačak. It took me only two hours and 15 minutes today from Zlatibor to get to this whiskey house, and four or five years ago it would have taken me four, four and a half hours. These are the results people value, that's what's measured, that's the results behind which they need to stand. We are also saying that for 18 years we have not had the opportunity to see the final account here in the National Assembly, and that is the contribution of the previous government that has established a new practice, so every year we see what the government has done, what the ministries have done and how the money of Serbian citizens has been spent. So, in addition to finishing two important corridors, we started building the Moravia Corridor. So, 800m euros have been allocated for the stock that will connect Western, southern, eastern Serbia. So, we're going to merge everything that was necessary many years ago. The corridor, apart from costing 800m euros, will contribute to the development of the whole part of central Serbia. We also have a large investment in the corridor, in the Ruma-Sabac highway. That's the year we started that car road. Šabac – Passica fast traffic, all this started in 2019. So it's a special pleasure that we had a chance to discuss the budget yesterday. After all, that year we had a surplus in the budget of 33 billion dinars and when some wonder how we were ready to meet the 2020 crisis, because we had a good surplus in the 2019 budget and we had, therefore, four years back surplus. So these are the results that we could stop at, and that's why we had money to finance everything we needed in 2020 when the coronary crisis took place. So we managed, to remind the public, to single out 700 billion dinars and to start all these projects that were needed that year, 2020, and to give money to the most affected sectors -- businesses, our citizens. We managed to give a serious package of support and economics and the health system in response to the crisis. After all, it led our country out of a crisis. We have managed to talk about good results today, of all things minus 1% of GDP, which is at the best level with all the countries of Europe. Our economy didn't feel a more significant blow to the crisis when it came to the crown. Of course, we also have a new package of support measures. Seventy-two thousand people employed in Serbia will receive a minimum, which has been hit in certain sectors. First of all, I'm talking about hotel and tourism. I'd like, Minister, to find another way to help the economy that is truly these locking measures, first of all I'm talking about the caterers... I come from that sector, which is why I have to say. I think the government needs to sit down with the representatives of the catering associations and find a way to further help overcome this crisis. They are the most affected by previous measures, namely these 17-hour lockdowns. I think that's where we can find ways. You said that taxes that have been coming in since January can't be written off, but maybe we should find some way to possibly postpone it because we actually have another additional blow coming in January. So it seems to me that many employers will decide to fire workers if they are forced, given that they come to pay all those expensive taxes and contributions that have been delayed over the past year. Therefore, I think you should sit there and talk to the representatives of the Association of Hosts to find the modality to overcome that large, possibly number of fired workers. It's not in our best interest. So, unemployment needs to be maintained at the current level, and I think there's really plenty of room to talk about it. When it comes to the 2021 budget, we spoke here, a solution has been adopted that will continue to contribute to the capital projects that will be adopted here and that we will implement in the coming year. So, the two priorities you said yesterday, we will, we will deal with our citizens and we will continue to run a socially responsible policy. We'll raise salaries in the public sector, raise salaries and healthcare workers and our soldiers and the police. I can see that some are particularly shaken about why our army is getting paid. Well, wages are just being raised because the army is a pillar of a state. So, the army must have big salaries and that's why it's certainly a good measure to go up there, so that our soldiers have adequate profits. We're also talking about adopting a big investment cycle next year. So, 330 billion dinars we'll adopt here tonight and move on to the realization of all that is necessary for our citizens. So 330 billion dinars, or 5.5% of the budget. We allocate a large amount of budget for capital projects, for capital investments. So it continues next year. Although we are in a crisis caused by the coronary virus, we will continue to raise GDP and we will have projections, as the IMF itself says, and we here that this growth will be 6%. We want it to be bigger, because it seems to me that next year it will show how much we have managed to contain this wave of crisis the first to occur this year, and that is why for next year, we can say that the projection will be 6% of GDP growth. As for the Minister, criticism by some of the quasi opposition... We can't call them opposition, we can't call them in parliament. So they hold press conferences in front of the parliament itself. Yesterday, that Alexic said... So, mixed up a man's dollars, Euros and dinars and said the next thing. In 2012, we left a debt of 15 billion dinars, and today the external debt is 31 billion dollars. So he carried out that expert formula that we owe as much as 16 billion euros. In all this mathematics, although it has mixed the euro, dollars and dinars, it has again missed about 17,5 billion euros. Imagine that math of someone who pleads to lead this country, who performs from some position of criticism, a failure in that account that was optional? So, in front of the National Assembly, a man was talking about something he must have been up to... I guess he was getting ready for something, and then he came and said, "17.5 billion euros." So you missed a man in your account. So today they're telling us about our duty. That's what I saw was the biggest criticism, somewhere saying Serbia is in debt. Watch out for this hypocritical relationship between Dragan Gilas and his satellites saying that Serbia is in charge today, not to mention that today we are forced to return all those expensive loans they took on green interest, at green interest, 7.25 was the bond they took in 2011. Today we refinance that bond with only 1% interest. So that's how we host the public debt, there's no talking about continuing to borrow the country. I'll remind you, they left us 78% of GDP in public debt. We reduced it below 50%, and even with these new responsibilities, that public debt will not exceed 60%, which is at the level of the most developed European states, which is at the level of Mastricht, after all. So we have absolute politics at work today in Serbia. No one is talking about plans, programmes, what they would like to do today in Serbia. I'll remind you, the SNS came to power when she ran for her program. If you remember in 2011 we published the White Paper – “Programming to Change”. So that's what we've been running for 2012 in the elections. We told the citizens we were taxing -- we want a better life, we want new investments, we want everything that hasn't been done in the past decades. For decades nothing has been done that we listed in that book. With this program we performed in the 2012 elections. Citizens voted and defined that SNS, then Tomislav Nikolic, later and President Aleksandar Vukic, as head of government, led all the reforms needed for Serbia. So we came to power by criticising, arguing, saying what we didn't like, saying what we wanted to change, saying what the problem was in Serbia, and ultimately, the citizens voted it. In the end, we managed to get Serbia out of the crisis. They can't do it today. Can you imagine Dragan Gilas or Vuk Jeremic coming out to the public and saying -- this is not good, this budget is not good, we're pushing for more hospitals, more miles of highways, more schools, more kindergartens. The citizen would say, well, my friend, you've been 12 years old and you haven't done anything, you've left us a public debt of 78% of GDP, you've filled your private pockets, we hear you have dozens of properties in the heart of Belgrade, and you can go out to the citizens today and without any shame, and you're talking public debt, you're talking about doing something better. So they know that in the way that in normal states they come to power here they have no chance, that they can't animate anyone to vote for something that's absolutely already been seen today. So 12 years they had a chance. They can't say today what they would do better than us when they showed they didn't do anything, that they were only able to fill their private pockets and in no way affect the economy of Serbia's progress and development. Therefore, today they have no legitimacy to discuss these issues, but once you have no way of talking about the budget, meaningful criticism of things that should be done in Serbia, then you are dealing with someone's family. Today we heard the mention of Vukan again, mentioning Daniel, mentioning the militia, putting psychological pressure on President Alexander Vukic, thinking that that way he would be hesitated. They're wrong, I think it's clear to everyone, they think that maybe, possibly, some new Chaba Der, as a colleague of Jovanov mentioned here, to carry out this task, to finally remove that obstacle, so President Alexander Vukic, who is so disturbing and thus to come to power. So there's no need to discuss it further, they've told their story. We're adopting a development budget here. In 2021 there will be years of accelerated development, accelerated reforms, we have one budget that is projected at 6% of GDP. Minister, I want to make this growth of the economy even bigger because we showed the previous years that we can deal with the consequences of the crisis, that when it's hard to show that we can do the best. Once again, we will vote for this budget and thank all the MPs for listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1460	I thank the People's Messenger Dabic. Since I've been signaled by the Rules of Procedure, I need to notify everyone currently in the system, and the system is full, that I have to delete the list. I'll just ask you to wait, since the priority is to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1461	Thank you, Vice President. I'm advertising Article 106. I'll rely on you in an explanation of what he means, and he says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. The debate is in particular, about amendments, about quality, there's no dilemma. However, I do not think that there was an evil intention to call the speaker of the assembly the way it was done. I don't think he has any malice aspirations, but for the sake of the public who heard this, I'm saying that the president of the Serbian Parliament, even when he's not sitting there, is being replaced by you or by one of your fellow vice presidents, certainly has obligations regarding the work of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, and from me commendation for the Minister of Small, is the time he spent in the Assembly long and high quality, but let's not try to make it a parallel, even on condition that we might want a few seconds of media space. So I thank you and pray that we talk again about facts, not some personal attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1462	Thank you. I took over the presidency for half the speech, and I didn't hear those allegations you made. We can look for a rock note, if you think it's important. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. I'd really like to ask the speakers if we could get back on the agenda. The word is Zoran Tomic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1463	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we discussed the previous days of the 2021 Budget Proposal and the accompanying acts, and I can absolutely say that it was created in accordance with all the rules that each budget should be dealt with, which is that it is objective, that it is realistic and that it is absolutely feasible. Why can I say that? If we also look at the discussion we had when it comes to the final account for 2019, that is, the implementation of the budget for that year and for the previous few years, we will see in fact that the people who created that budget actually did it according to all these principles and that what was promised by the programme and the plan of these budgets was realised in the previous period. For this reason, I am absolutely sure that when it comes to the next year that this budget will certainly be developed, but it is also socially responsible, that the state of Serbia will have a real GDP growth of 6% that has been forecasted, and this is all thanks to the successful measures implemented in 2020, when it comes to fighting the pandemic, which is also spoken of by Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic at a session of the Finance Committee. We have determined that we are one of the few countries that has responded in the right way, at the right time, because it was not then reacted, as has been done in many other countries, the minister said that the fall would most likely be of at least 6% and perhaps greater. The fall certainly entails other consequences that are seen in the recovery of economies that would last a lot longer than it is now. For that reason, I'm sure that the next year we're coming out of these problems and the absolute state is continuing that growth trend of the economy that it had in the previous period. What is important is to point out when this budget is at stake, which is that we have never had more defined funds for capital exposures that are the engine of our economy's development, but also the engine of the development of all other areas of our citizens' lives – culture, education, sports, health. What is very important to say, which is also the Fiscal Council commended, is that this year the state has invested a huge amount of funds and is planned for the next period, when it comes to the health sector. Thanks to these timely decisions, we received within four months one hospital, in ten days another hospital in Krusevec, and that is where my colleague and I from the bench come from. This will certainly contribute to further development of our health system, because when this pandemic is finished and the fight against the coronary virus, these objects, that infrastructure, that equipment remains, will become an integral part of the health system and will be used for other purposes to preserve the health of citizens, which is a very important component when we talk about the development of the economy. More than 2.8 billion euros is indeed an impressive figure to be invested in the development of our country, and as a person from Kruševec, I am particularly pleased to see the Moravski Corridor singled out in the budget, which will be the most modern highway, not only in Serbia, but also in the region. It is fully digital and will allow for the entire area, along the West Morava Basin, which has about half a million citizens, to develop, because this highway is not just an asphalt that we're going to put on and allow us to go from point A to point B. He has the accompanying components with him. It is also an economic zone, i.e. an industrial zone that will be formed, and when we talk about my area, it is actually a zone between Kruševac and Cicevic, between Kruševec and Trstenik, which is also a very important thing when it comes to the development of the economy, when it comes to the development of entrepreneurship, especially for young people, and this is one of the accentes that the state has put in the next period. I am also pleased that we have a component when it comes to the Ministry of Justice that is moving with the preparation of the project of moving the court building to Kruševec from centre one to center three, where in fact all the courts in Kruševec will be covered in that palace of justice, both higher and municipally and infringing. In fact, I mean, when we look at Kruševac as he was before 2012 and now, Kruševac had only one centre by 2012, although according to the city's development plan he was supposed to have a centre one and a centre two, it's a square of skeletons. Only with the arrival of Aleksandar Vukic and Bratislava Gasic as mayor, Kruševac caught momentum and began to develop, so today we are not only talking about the development of the center two, which is already a place for people to rest, which is and how developed, but also about the center three, i.e. The village of Old Airport, which is largely being built, where six new traffic stations have been built, where investors have already bought crying and started building their business-building facilities, and one of the important parts will certainly be the new Court of Justice, so that a good part of the city's life will be transferred to the center of three. This is one example of successful co-operation between the state and local self-government on this project, joint co-operation. We see that the budget also plans an increase in pensions of 5.9% per Swiss model, that we have an increase in earnings both in the health sector and in the public sector. In the health sector first 5%, and in the public sector in the beginning, in January, 3.5%, then in April 1.5%, which is an important component, because in addition to the struggle to preserve the health of our citizens, one of the items this budget tells us is that the state will continue to fight to preserve domestic demand, namely domestic consumption, which is also one of the essential components of the development of the economy and the development of our economy itself. It is important to note that we have an increase in the minimum profit price from 172.5 dinars to 183.9 dinars. Also, the important measure that the state implements and speaks about the continuity of policy is to improve business conditions for attracting investors, so that the state has increased the minimum amount of earnings, i.e. the non-taxable amount of earnings from 16.300 to 18,300 dinars, which is a stimulant to businesses, or reduces their costs. It simply gives them reason to invest that money in investments, in development, etc. What's also important to say is that the budget is also talking about the development of a knowledge-based economy. It's something that separates countries that develop today from other countries, which is that the state struggles to keep its experts, its young people here. As a result, scientific and technological parks were built in the previous period, starting-up centres were built and this is something that the state and this budget will finance in the next period. All that is predicted is the consequence of the credibility that these institutions, which bearers of these functions, as is the minister there, as the President of the Republic have, which is actually the trust of citizens. For what? Because what was promised and achieved in the previous period. Just to get back, just one statistical and comparative analysis, if we look at the percentage of unemployment, which is otherwise statistics that are publicly available to everyone, we will see that by 2012, the unemployment rate in Serbia was 23.9%. We in this period not only reduced that unemployment to a single-digit number, but he said, as the minister said, in the third quarter of this year, when we were still struggling with the pandemic, it was 7%, which is a really great success. Let's just see how we have a trend in profit growth, so the goal set before us, that the average income in the Republic is 500 euros achieved this year. We have an average pension growth. When it comes to public debt, the state has successfully fought it, and had it not been for this pandemic, the trend of the reduction of public debt would have continued, which is certainly, and with all these measures now taken, below those 60% that the Mastricht Agreement and the Mastricht criteria envisioned, and what some EU countries are not meeting now, but in fact their debts have gone significantly beyond one of their country's gross domestic products. We also talked about the implementation of the 2019 budget. In 2019, we had a real growth in the economy of 4.2%, while in the period when there was a previous economic crisis, which Parliamentarian Arsic would say – which was a small baby compared to this, unfortunately, we had a significant decline. The authorities at the time said the crisis was a chance for Serbia, and in fact it was a chance for Serbia to be destroyed. What is also an important component when it comes to attracting investment and what investors love, which is the stability of the macroeconomic state, which is actually two indicators. One is the exchange rate, which today is stable for many years and speaks in fact the amount of inflation that was 1.7% in 2019. I'm just going to remind citizens that in 2008, it was 11.7% and in 2012, it was 7.8%. So this is also a very important component and the result of the work and of President Vukic and his team in the previous period, which is why they have this credibility and which is why we can freely say that this overall budget is absolutely real and feasible. In fact, the elections held on 21 June, where over two million voters supported both the president and us who were on his list, are actually evidence of who was fighting for the state. I want to say that when we discuss here, when we present facts and what has been achieved in the previous period and, of course, as MPs who are the voice of the people, the topics that interest the citizens, are also the malversions and affairs of the people of the previous regime, we get not direct answers from them, but indirect, through their people, in their media, such as this here, I wouldn't say cartoons but scribbles, here, like this one. You saw the last one, when it comes to the National Assembly, where the insult and dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of the MPs of the people, and of course, when one of us dares to say something or mention it here against them, we are also called on social networks, where, behold, miracles, what previous colleagues have said, is a "medium finger" and these are their arguments, it is their political struggle. When you look at those so-called. argument, it's clear exactly what it's about. It's about just showing hate here, talking about their mental frame and actually not wanting to get into a political struggle in a fair and correct way that involves discussion and exchange of opinions and arguments. What I'm simply trying to say is that we, as MPs, are certainly not going to be afraid of this kind of behavior, especially today, when it's International Human Rights Day. This is one of the important things, because obviously we do not have the right to express our opinions, that only they have the right and in such a vulgar way to do so, simply to say that we will continue to do our work in accordance with all the laws and that we will be that voice of the people and that we will absolutely all that our citizens are interested in here, respecting, naturally, the Rules of Procedure on Labour. I would just take the opportunity in the end to, because, behold, they deal with insults and because they throw us at insults, to quote my distinguished colleague Dragan Barisic, who often knows how to say, "When they insult Vukic and us, we will fight them back." We did it on June 21st, we'll do it every next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1464	Thank you to MP Tomic. As you have announced, a colleague from Kruševac, Dr Dragana Barisic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1465	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, indeed today is a very important topic for us, a subject in particular that is related to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we are simply all aware of how much this has been done in the previous period. You know for a fact that in 2012, we inherited a country that was in front of bankruptcy and I am not surprised at the anxiety of those who would force themselves into this home, the home of the National Assembly, so, as colleagues and colleagues Christmas and Tomic and everyone else say, they are not afraid to attack not only the president of the state, Mr. Vukic, not our ministers, but all of us sitting in this high house. I simply, listening to my colleague Sandra Christmas today, had to check in and remind our citizens about Mr. Jeremic's "traitor" Mr. Miroslav Aleksic, a former counterpart from the parliamentary benches, but also a fellow citizen from the neighbouring municipality, the municipality of Trstenik, as I come from Kruševec. Namely, it is a man who is a fraud in every sense and he found two days ago to criticise the budget of the Republic of Serbia, found that he criticized Minister Mali, and this man during his reign, and by 2016 he was the president of the municipality of Trstenik, he was angry with Trstenik that he had simply, for four years now, been struggling to restore that municipality and bring it back from the brink of destruction. I'd have to remind the citizens, I've talked more than once in this house, but it still needs to be reminded of what this man can do. The man from the Anti-Corruption Agency's website, i.e. to prevent corruption now and at the time when he was president of the municipality received salary, only cared about his personal budget, not about the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Tristenik municipality, so he was compensated as the president of the municipality of 107,216 dinars - at the time of 2016. Otherwise, the municipality of Trstenik was then a devastrated municipality, and it was only by order of the State Auditing Institution that reduced the miserable salary. At the time, he was a member of the Supervisory Board, the Kruševac Oil Plant, received 40,258 dinars per month, a member of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise “National Park – Kopalnik” 17,355 dinars per month, to all of this. Before coming to the post of President of Tristenik Municipality, it is a fictional place for him in the Directorate for Planning and Construction of Trstenik - 72,000, and before that the imaginary place in the public company "Počevina", from where it is. I would also remind our citizens that this man, a colleague of Sandra's, had already said it, not only provided himself, but put his father-in-law Ljubisa Knezevic and mother-in-law into the position of president of one Supervisory and other Management Board of the First Petolite. You know how far that factory came. There was no Mr. Gasic, Mayor of Kruševec in the period from 2012 to 2014, after the Minister of Defence, the current director of BIA, to return the "First Petoletka" as defence minister and to revive all of this, I really don't know what would happen to Triestelics and even the citizens of Triestenik. As far as his trust is concerned, it was shown to him by the citizens of Triestenik, where he received two votes in the Medvedji elections. So, not 2%, but two votes. So it wasn't literally the voters who voted it, it was some random passers-by. As serious as he was and his colleagues from the club, he also says that they proposed amendments for the 2016 budget where they wanted Santa to enter through the chimney in the Assembly. They were so serious, and imagine what they'd be like if God didn't let them come to power. About what he did with his father-in-law, Sandra already mentioned. So, they set up a Fund to improve human resources, and in the middle of the winter, he, as president of the Triestenik municipality, has allocated funds in millions to provide allegedly compensation for people who, through temporary occasional jobs, will clean greenery in Tristenik in the middle of winter. It's really weird. As far as Mr. Aleksic is concerned, I must remind myself that in the middle of the pandemic, it means when citizens of Serbia fought and when we are still fighting, when the state reacted adequately, when the President of the Republic advocated to get what was needed, along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he started talking through his listeners from Tristenik that he was supposed to settle in the rooms of "The First Five-year-old" migrants on the orders of the BIA director. People who are terrified of the evil crown that is around us and simply everyone, with increased measures, responsibilities and caution, we have to fight this monster and, of course, with a good response from the state, we manage to fight better than many countries in Europe, I am now not surprised that it was overlooked by BIA a few years ago and then invented that BIA allegedly sent a drone to his terrace. Otherwise, this drone boasted that it had it in, I think, the catalog “Idea” or I don’t know which market. When the press called him and asked him about it, he said, "Well, I was joking. A 40-year-old man makes jokes about things like that. When it comes to him, I'd have a lot to talk about. Not to be too long. You know for a fact that he took a tractor from the Ministry of Agriculture by subsidies, and that ministry has spit more than once in this room. What I must add, since he now knows to come before the Assembly building and hold press conferences, to criticise this budget, and we know how he worked while his party was in power, is probably wrong for him to no longer sit in these benches and can't be registered, not to attend the sessions, and to register regularly, holding conferences in the hall. It's all documented. They can show their fellow cameramen. So, in the previous term, he regularly came in, held conferences in the hall, watched to present any untruth to the ministries designated, whether for certain individuals who were thorns in his eye, without entering this hall and not working in the interests of the citizens who, behold, gave him so much support when he was here. Another thing about this monster that hit us, he said on April 28th this year that the results in the fight against the crown of the virus in Serbia are the weakest in the Balkans. I would inform him that it was not true and that perhaps the result of both the health ministry and the Republic of Serbia and all that was bad when the party he belonged to then ruled, because he was changing the party as he arrived and eventually sold Jeremic to be his vice president. I would inform him that in Serbia now the health system is 16 places, and when his party was in power, G17 plus, and his Serbia minister was not even in competition. One more thing, we now have conditions to treat in our country and our citizens and to open up both the hospital and everything else, while his minister was at the place of the Ministry of Health from the party he belonged to and Alexic went for a routine operation abroad. So much for that. I think it's really clear to the citizens, and to Alexic himself and all those who come out of this alliance for Serbia's destruction that the citizens don't want them and that's why they behave like this and they don't know what to do anymore. In voting day, Mr. Minister, we will certainly support this budget and I believe that this amendment has rightly been accepted, the other two, and that this amendment to Article 8 has been rejected by law. So I want you to move on even faster, even stronger, even better for our Serbia, and these losers certainly went where they belong, to a political dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1466	Thank you, Mrs. Barisic. Before we proceed with the presentations, I have one question for the National Service of RTS, which organises the transfer of the session today – is there any decision for which MPs from the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – for our children censored at the Public Service? If there is, I'd like to get accurate information when that decision is made and by whom. That is what I ask for the obvious reason why today, strikingly every time, absolutely every time any of the MPs from the Legislative Group of Aleksandar Vukic – raises any paper for our children, wanting to show something, the same second changes the position, so that the contents are not shown, so it goes to a broad plan. This may have been best seen during the presentation of MP Aleksandar Markovic, who was literally raced by people who are doing technical transmissions. The moment Alexander Markovic picks up some paper, it's a whole joke. The moment Aleksandar Markovic puts down the paper, he returns a large piece of paper, you see the MP Markovic raising the next and the second he disappears from the frame and the content he wanted to share with the public because he thinks he has something important to tell Serbian citizens. It seemed literally comical that this was happening literally ten times, and then it continued with MP Tomic and MP Barisic. So I have to ask this question which is a good indicator of who, with all the lies that we are exposed to every day on the subject that there are supposed to be privileged by members of the parliamentary majority or government in any way by the media, faced with the practice that it seems that the very people you falsely accuse are censored and that is not less than any of the national service, so we would like to get precise information, this is an indication of how much freedom and the right to self-organize, today, which was completely unimaginable in some years behind us and that's good and that's good, but it's clear that we should try to show Serbia's citizens things in a way that we think is best or should simply organise ourselves differently in our work? So, thanks for the answer, I believe we'll get it. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1467	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. I'd depend on what you said. In Serbia, it seems as of this morning, we also have Gilas the prosecutor, and Gilas the judge, and Gilas the editor-in-chief of the public service. Gilas seems to be the master of everything in Serbia that he imagines, only what he lacks is the budget. There is no budget, full of cash filled by advances, supported by Serbian citizens led by President Aleksandar Vukic. Heavy reforms, serious reforms, hard work, trying and fighting for the interests of this country while the tycoon, the judge, the thief, the criminal, the so-called. Editor, judge, prosecutor, what not, Dragan Gilas, just sitting on the side, spit on us, asked for something to catch up with, to rip a word out of context, a sentence spoken by MPs in the Assembly, to make some story of his own and ride around the hump of all of us. Well, that's enough of that. We have had enough of this, not only for us MPs from the list of Alexander Vukic – for our children, but for all of it, there is enough for the citizens of Serbia. Every day, everyone here communicates with the citizens and asks us how far? How long will a thief like Dragan Gilas censor everything in Serbia? How long will he wonder about everything in this society? How long will he threaten without being punished for it? As long as his scum on social networks is gonna do whatever he wants and there's no answer to that? So, where are those independent institutions? Where are all these independent experts who receive astronomical salaries of 300, 400 grand a month? Where are the various associations? Where are these NGOs? Where are all those human rights experts? Do we, as the peoples of our family, have the family of President Alexander Vukic? Does a little three-and-a-half-year-old Vulcan have any rights in this country? Does he have the right to grow up peacefully, safely, safely? Do they have the right children of Alexander Wolfie to their childhood? Does Danilo have the right to go to the bar and watch the game? Does Milica have the right to go to school, to live decently, normally? What are these kids' faults? What are our children's fault, all the children in Serbia? What's wrong, what's wrong, what's wrong? Because Dragan Gilas is gone, little did he have that budget of the city of Belgrade that he ruined, so it brought him to a billion and 200 million minuses, so then the mayor of Sinisha Mali had a very difficult task that nobody believed would be possible to achieve, so the debt of the City of Belgrade was halved to 600 million, right, Minister? We only remember how they covered up these debts, so they said that the debt of the City of Belgrade is not a billion and 200 million, but 150, 200, 300, those debts of public enterprises will not be counted, it is not important. About not talking. Let's not talk about what it's like in "The Vodovod" besides having a legal service have engaged law offices in order to take the money out of the Vodovoda budget. Let's not talk about Bojana Lekic, how and why she was hired for PR services in "The Waterway". What, "waterway" doesn't have a PR service, no one to write a statement? Let's not talk about these public service and pay-as-you-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-rounds. To all of this, then SNS MPs must not show the truth. No, but a professor at Mark Atlagic University will call all sorts of names. Professor Atlagic is here for them a doctor of truth because every word he says is true in this assembly. The truth hurts cheaters and thieves the most. I've repeated the word thief so many times today because they said it was forbidden. Since this morning, a court of law and some judge in the image of Dragan Gilas has made a decision not to say he's a thief, that you can't say that they hired various companies for commissions behind whom who knows who's behind, and we know, there's a thief named Dragan Gilas, why don't I say? So where's a billion and two hundred million people in the City of Belgrade? Gilas is the image, image and opportunity of corruption. All he touched on Belgrade's leading city was the image and opportunity of corruption. We have that bridge on Ada, 500 million euros. It could've been five times longer and a bigger bridge to make for that money. There's also a replica of Therazi, made of cloth. I don't know what that replica was for Serbian citizens? For what? Let's remind ourselves what the Terrace looked like in the thirties of the last century? Thank him, he didn't have to do it in rags. The terraces aren't made out of rags. "Hetherland", we haven't forgotten that either. They're talking about human rights, some of them here that they sent, so they took care of children who had certain health problems. They take millions out of the budget, put them in their dirty pockets, and then fly around the Maldives, set up a variety of additional NGOs, it's little to steal only through tenders, public procurement, it takes a little bit on projects to take, right, ministers? How many tens of millions of euros per ministry went from projects to various texts? I remember that the Ministry of Agriculture was one of the former MPs paying for his texts on the daily newspaper. What was that for? The man wrote some stories about the recovery of agriculture. I don't see that this has contributed to the development of Serbian agriculture back then, but it has been making dramatic progress since 2012, since so much has changed in this society. Everything's changed, everything. With Alexander Vukic's arrival as First Deputy Prime Minister, then the prime minister, then the country's president, everything changes in Serbia and everything moves for the better. You had an army that only existed on paper, we didn't even have planes, we had an Air Force just on paper. No plane that can fly. But that's why their planes full of steam flew out of Serbia every day. Nothing was their problem, planes, helicopters, it was flying all over the place. A bag full of steam, great. We had the boulevard of King Alexander, they tell someone about cutting down trees. Hundreds of thousands of trees were planted in Belgrade in previous years. They cut up the whole boulevard in a few days, dug up everything. Every street they worked had to be paved up multiple times because they forgot there was something else they needed to do. There's multimillion-dollar thefts everywhere. They did, and we've seen that in the last few days, they're copying things to both the president of the Republic and his family and brother Andrew, they're talking about some fields, oranics, but they just can't tell where they are, and for their apartments and villas we know every address. You know where every apartment is, and that's none less than 100 square meters, in the most attractive locations. So let's sit down and count the average salary, if two family employees work, how long it takes a decade for one villa that Dragan Gilas has to make, it's absolutely impossible. Where are all those agencies that are investigating and investigating? I guess they'll come, we hope that moment we find out the origins of the property. We have a law, it'll apply, let's hear from where? So if you're such a successful magician, let's go to the circus and send you, show the kids how to make it out of a million-euro pigeon. Enough distracting citizens, on their portals. Enough to threaten to hang someone, how someone will kiss corpses, how someone will get shot in the back of the head. Perhaps now this public service is also stopping, this exposure should not be heard threatening the president of the Republic and his children. We also have "Pazl Grad" on Vozdovac, a colleague of Mirkovic, the head of our committee group, talked about it on Vozdovac. You did, watch out, "Watch out for the city," it's nice to take care of the kids, I really support it as the father of two little girls, I love it when kids have arranged parks, they have playgrounds, they have walks for our citizens, it's all wonderful. But, you know, when you build a watchful city where children need to spend some time with their parents, then it has to be safe, to be safe, and it doesn't exactly have to be budgeted to do so, because who knows how many of those guard cities were legal, and it could have been made out of that money that was invested in "Watchel City" on Vozdovac that was never released into work. How to let go if someone died there. Is there another story about human rights and children's rights? How many parks were taken away from those children to make a combination of the city's watchdogs who would never live, and thank God it wasn't because then, God forbid, he worked in our time, so if some kid had been hurt there, said -- here's how the advances worry the children, injured a child where we didn't even have a civil license, nothing, not a single paper, but the money was lying in the pocket of Dragan Gilas, and always in the pocket of Dragan Gilas, no matter whose name it is being taken there, they knew it. It doesn't exactly lie to be called Dragan Gilas, but there is also Gojko, and who knows who Gojko exists, how many different brothers, godfathers, friends, relatives, cousins by theft, by corruption, by the crime that crippled this country and made our children miserable decades ago, and now it's time to say enough. Enough messing with all of us. I can't help but get upset when I talk about it, when I imagine how many billions were taken from this country and then they say, "Well, is there enough room for children in kindergarten?" Well, don't tell me about kindergartens. The city of Belgrade had to pay back millions of fines for you charging more expensive kindergartens than can be charged. Today, the city's record number of kindergartens and this Belgrade-run leadership, led by the SNS, is right. We've restored schools, hospitals, what it's all about, rather than citizens. You know, when you have on the other hand one click of mobsters and thieves, led by Gilas who are used to just rebuilding villas, building villas, apartments, expensive for them and their friends, and they're not normal situations where hospitals are made. How to look forward and celebrate when Aleksandar Vukic opens a hospital, attends the opening, equipping these hospitals, investing dozens and hundreds of millions of euros in how they rejoice when it means there is no money for their villas and apartments. They're gonna miss it. There's not a lot of the thirty or so things we've learned so far. Who knows how many yachts there are, expensive cars, who knows how much money they launder, usually more than a dozen times as much as they know. Six hundred and nineteen million, can we all be aware of how much money that is? With 619 million what we could do in Serbia. This government and the budget that is now set out for me guarantees that our children, all children in Serbia, will have a stable 2021 year, the year in which Serbia will continue to develop primarily infrastructureally, so that more investment will come to Serbia, in order to truly be champions in attracting investments next year, and this guarantees then a safe life for children in Serbia, better health services for our oldest citizens and, of course, for all others, it guarantees higher salaries, higher pensions, again in the coming year as the increase is now going. These are the topics we can discuss. Normal subjects. Should the tax be one way or the other, more or less, but they don't care. In the days when talking about the budget, about the most important topic in the Serbian Parliament, they forbid us to say that someone stole money from that budget, that someone was stealing citizens, we can't say. Now, we can say, and no one will ban us from speaking at the Serbian Parliament for the hundredth time today -- Gilas, you're a thief. The worst thing in history that has happened to Serbian citizens is Dragan Djilas and those are his gods, the crazy Djordjevic, who doesn't know how to get off Twitter and doesn't know anything else. People would spit on him if they saw him on the street. It's a good escape from the street to go to Twitter there they can't reach, and they're not coming down from social networks, because they're only safe here and they can write their own messages of support, where they can give their lunatics directives what they're going to write and how to threaten. I say again, you have the full support of MPs from the list Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, you have the full support of Serbia's citizens above all for the work you do. I spoke to a major Belgrade businessman a few days ago, who says -- indeed, I am not in politics, but all that the government has done, the Serbian government has given for the last five or six years a huge boost for businessmen in terms of the placement of its products, sales of profits, people are satisfied, paying their employees. For the first time in Serbia, when I talk to people, I see more attractive and more income in the private sector and these are the real things that have been done for the benefit of Serbian citizens. I am convinced that by voting this budget that we are going to adopt, we are doing well for our country in the following year and that we have a certain year of stable, high growth, new progress and that the citizens of Serbia will be able to recognize it again when the time comes and that those who are not dealing with anything other than the plan to bring down Alexander Vukic, punishment again in some subsequent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1468	I thank the MP Filipovic. With the fastest possible interpretation of democracy I would ask you to return to the agenda, I know that you are all, I think, most experienced MPs, to define political messages so that we do not use slang from the street to raise the reputation of this institution. Next, the word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1469	Thank you. Of course we accept the proposed amendment to the government, and as far as the Budget Law is concerned, I must stress that this is the most significant law that the National Assembly has discussed over the year. It is a law relating to budgetary resources, a law relating to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and of course this is a law that requires time and which requires MPs to deliver their opinions and say everything they consider necessary, as regards the law and the amendment on the budget. I must first say that Serbia, regardless of the Kovid 19 pandemic, which took hold of the whole world and our country during 2020, comes out of this year as an economic winner, as one of the best countries in Europe in economic terms, but also as one of the countries in Europe where no citizen who had a problem with Kovid 19 remained beyond the health system. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia who needed medical care, hospitalized, or received treatment that is completely free of charge at our health institutions. Of course, Serbia's economic best standing in Europe is not just us, according to the IMF, it says the International Labour Organisation, which in one of its Employment Reports and Kovid 19, i.e. the consequences of Kovid 19 on employment, said that the Republic of Serbia had the most comprehensive and comprehensive package of measures both towards citizens and businesses, which, of course, led to the preservation of jobs and, of course, the reduction of poverty and the survival and strengthening of all economic branches, i.e. to the recovery of our economy and momentum in the third and fourth quarters of 2020. Of course, I have to say that, Mr. Mali, I think this third budget of yours here in the National Assembly, that as far as the financial part of the error is concerned, in a financial sense, is zero. I must say, you are compared to those critics, you are an intellectual gromad in the economic sense of that word, and that the parliamentary group will certainly support this bill. I say this for the reason that Serbia and based on the 2019 final account report, which clearly shows that Serbia had a budget surplus four years in a row, regardless of the impact of the Kovid 19 pandemic on our country on the historical minimum of 7.3%, during the time of Dragan Gilas, unemployment in Serbia was 27%, that the gold reserves in the total foreign reserves represent 14%, that today the Republic of Serbia has a currency reserve of 35.4 T, that inflation within the target average limits, i.e. between 1.5% and 2%, that the dinar in 2018 was the second strongest currency. All this deserves attention, all this deserves to be told to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because, of course, success is, the citizens see and the successes we, the MPs of the SNS, or the parliamentary group of Aleksandar Vukic – we also want to present to our children publicly. Of course, there are also those depicted in the image of Dragan Dilas and his right-hand man Marinika Tepic, who, since they do not have politics, but have this express sense of hatred for everything, especially according to the success shown by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the most monstrous, harshest way to attack the family, i.e., above all, the children of our President Aleksandar Vukic. I often thought of the words of the patriarch Paul, who said: Let us be men, never inhumans. I guess that's not true for Dragan Gilas and his pals from the yellow tycoon company. They most likely belong to this other group, which is a group of inhumans. As for our President Alexander Vukic, I must say that for the first time since the war under the rug, Aleksandar Vukic has drawn the problem of Natalie and natal politics in Serbia in 2018. For the first time, he spoke publicly to the citizens and publicly said that it was a matter of nationality, a question of the future and the survival of our country. For the first time, Aleksandar Vucic proposed, and the National Assembly and adopted these legislative changes, where it is also possible for foster mothers who are farmers, to have the right to maternity leave, to have mothers who work on temporary and occasional jobs, also have the right to have maternity care, to have mothers who are working on work contracts, also to have the right to maternity leave, but also to increase the parental allowance to all mothers and thus to have a single payment of 18,000 dinars for the first child, for the second child of 10,000 dinars in 24 months, per month, for a third child of 12,000 in a time period of 10 years, and for a fourth child of 18,000 dinars in a time period of 10 years. Has anyone ever done that before, uh, Alexander Wolfie? Never anyone. That's childcare, that's birthright. I want to say another encouraging news, in our largest GAC in Serbia, in the People's Front, this year, 7,800 babies will be born. It's the most babies in 20 years. Of course, I would also like to point out that our parliamentary group, the motto of our parliamentary group, is to fight for life, fight for more jobs, fight for economy, and the motto of Dragan Gilas seems to be death, because he and his policy are in league with a deadly virus, which is the Covid 19 virus. I would also like to emphasise, and of course, these funds have been projected in the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget this year, and they are in the department's division of labour, employment, combat and social issues, but I must stress that there is another ministry in the government, which is the Ministry of Family and Demography, that the issue of demographics is actually a multidisciplinary issue and that the question of children is in many other sections not only in the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. When it comes to the most vulnerable, and these are children again, Dragan Gilas remained in debt to the families of 400m dinars at the time of government in Belgrade. Today, families receive directly at the expense of the day and precisely in the estimated amount of their maternity allowance. Also, Dragan Gilas, at the time of his government, kidnapped both the most vulnerable and the poorest, whose belongings were defined in the division of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and also shortened them by 120 million dinars, and these are people who were just looking for bread money. Dragan Gilas had nothing to give them for that either, but he had enough from the budget to fill his private pockets and make a fortune for 619m euros. There's something else I need to mention. Has anyone mentioned our heroes, our fighters from Koshar and Pasik before? Never anyone. Dragan Gilas and this yellow tycoon group and robber, were ashamed of our fighters who defended our country in 1999 and some of them gave their lives. Alexander Vukic bows deeply to all those and bows down to all those young soldiers who have lost their lives in Kosharam and Pasik, but he also respectfully refers to those fighters who have survived and who fought this most terrible battle to defend our country. Has anyone before Alexander Vukic, the criminal bombing of NATO aggressors, which began on 24 March 1999, lasted 78 days and during which many children were killed, and among them little Milica Rakic, a baby on the nose, among them pregnant before birth in Nis and other innocent citizens, had anyone called that action his real name? Nobody. Dragan Gilas called it an action – a merciful angel, probably to court those who may have supported him in power. Finally, of course, the 2021 budget is also developed from a point of view, first of all building infrastructure projects, and that is where I have to list projects that are related to the protection of these most vulnerable groups, because at the time of the execution of its government, Dragan Gilas did everything he could to rob these most vulnerable groups. This budget also provides for investments in infrastructure, social protection institutions, social labour centres and, of course, many other projects relating to the IT base, the information link between the social work centres and other institutions, so that the centres are in the service of citizens and that centres do administrative procedures for all those who can through the connected system instead of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1470	I thank Milanka, especially for some additional information of an interesting topic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1471	Thank you. I don't want to talk about the exotic characters I'm hearing about here. They're the past. Thank God they stay there. It doesn't matter to me anymore. They should be important to the prosecution, unfortunately they're not, which shows only where our judiciary is. It's just amazing that for such crimes that have happened here and such corruption, they're not on the defendant's benches, but they're actively involved in politics today. But what to do. It's something we need to get used to. Again, it is also proof that all the stories of how politics, or the government, influences the judiciary, are meaningless and that on the contrary, in our judiciary are mostly those who were chosen at the time of this gentleman we are talking about and who are still keeping them here and not processing them, but what are we to do? I'll talk about the future. I honestly think it's very important that we talk about what's waiting for us, because a positive campaign is something that's much better and something that citizens want to hear. My soul hurts, Mr. Mali, and you correct me if I'm wrong, January and February 2020, there were months that announced to us a huge expansion of our economy, if there were no idols, we would really have had a complete explosion in terms of economic development because we had a growth of about 6%. A little bit of land recorded that. If God has punished us somewhere, he has punished us, in fact, all of humanity, but he has punished us precisely because we have come to an idol and because this economic activity has been suspended by a significant part, because it is impossible to work normally in such conditions. I have carefully read Prime Minister Brnabic's statement about receiving the vaccine. That's true, unfortunately, people, the world is cruel. Rich people can be treated, poor people when it's their turn. Unfortunately, 96% of the vaccines have already bought all the rich countries. The question is whether or not we're going to get there in time to have a mass vaccination. Reading Mr. Loncar's statement yesterday, today and Mrs. Brnabic, it's hard to be before the second half of next year. You know, until then, this economy has got to work. The fact is that rich countries are racing to take the vaccine first, just to activate their economic activity. Anyone who gets a month is in great advantage. That's what it's all about. We have to get to those vaccines at any cost, just to somehow develop our economy. At least we're on this micro plan, but here in the Balkans, it belongs to us, Mr. Mali, which is to be leaders in the region. And that's what we are and that's what all economic indicators show and there's no shame in saying it. When someone says -- well, I don't know, Serbia wants to spread its domination, that we want to expand our economic domination. I think we're entitled to something like that. And I think that Serbia should spread its economic domination to both Montenegro and Bosnia, and to Croatia, Macedonia and wherever it can, because we have what to offer, we have what to produce, we have a workforce that is very good and why we shouldn't do it. So, please, and you know for yourself how critical I was of certain measures the crisis staff brings. Please consider it because the economy has to work. I understand all the measures completely. I also support what will be limits at the borders, that you can't just walk into Serbia, that you have to go into quarantine. We have to prevent the spread of the infection. Let's not limit business hours anymore. That's ridiculous. Let's introduce stricter control of respect for epidemiological measures in economic operators, especially in catering facilities, but let's not stop the caterers and small businessmen from working. What you're gonna give him till five o'clock to work, we're burying him. These big markets and malls, they might survive, but that little businessman who owns the store won't be able to survive, he has to fire people. I understand the state's giving economic aid. That's very significant. He'll give a minimumer, but he can't do it till the end. It's not enough if you don't have business activity. So I ask that these measures be considered because this seriously strikes the economy. Unfortunately, in all of humanity, so, Serbia is no exception to that. So, once again, I appeal to the people of the Crescent Headquarters. I appeal to rationality. And that crisis staff, and the doctors and everyone is getting paid out of the budget. The budget is filled with the economic activity of this country. If we deny the businessman, what are we going to charge the budget from? I ask you to consider that measure, to allow it to work normally, and to strengthen the control of respect for epidemiological measures. Otherwise, I support that for this so-called. The New Year's Eve has no organized celebrations, no epidemics are allowed to spread. It's all something I absolutely support, but I can't accept this because we're really going to bring ourselves into a serious economic situation. Please respond because you are the Minister of Finance and you manage this country's budget. I have to admit, you've really done it domestically. Why am I saying that now? We can build a hospital covid today. I see here a certain lady who's changed a dozen parties and who does what with some state-owned economic operators. There goes the story of how a pig hospital like this, like this, isn't good. My people, in their time, at the time of the government of the lady in question, who singled out the money from the circuit budget, say she paid for the banana shorts. I don't know if you know? It's the game you play in Banatu. They even had a world championship. She singled out money from the province's Sports Secretariat to pay for the Banatian Shores. In their time, a human health home was not built. You can imagine that in their time we were plagued by an epidemic. People would lie on the street, I guess. Someone here is successful, someone has managed to save some money somewhere and invest and in four months we get an extraordinary covid hospital. Why do I say extraordinary? God didn't let us ever have to do that, that we made hospitals for other purposes, because we needed hospitals to be made, but the only two forces that were made by a pig hospital were China and Russia. Russia's poorer quality than Serbia. That must be commendable, my people. And because you've been homely looking after the budget, we're able to do something today, but so I'm asking you to talk, try to find some measure, keep filling the budget and the country running. We all depend on businessmen. I have to say how far Serbia has come otherwise, especially here, because Serbia has been developing a private sector. At a time of government, the ones we keep talking about here, which aren't worth mentioning, people from the private sector fled to the state sector. It's a disaster. We destroyed a private in their time. I think only 30 percent of the private was part of the budget. It's a complete disaster. Today, on the contrary. We have a problem that even the state sector can't keep more people because they go massively into the private sector. Let's not lie to each other. Why is it a problem to choose a director of a public enterprise? Because in order for a successful manager to answer, he also requires a high salary, the state, the question is, can he give us as high a salary as any successful manager can at a private firm can make? What comes to the competition is how credible it is and how much we would really take care of a company. I really want to commend you here, because the private started here, people, to work. Young people no longer think about going to the state sector when they graduate from college, but think about opening up their own companies, companies or already having some private initiative. They're starting to think clearly. Every normal is always for a private initiative and that's something you've managed to do. We changed the system of thinking in Serbia. You know how it used to be? If you're party-like, fine with the state firm, what you're doing, it doesn't matter. Do you have any productivity here at all, and that doesn't matter, and the private pays for it, right, finances all the time. Now it's the other way around. Indeed, the private sector is developing significantly now. I'd just like to ask if you could keep your voice down. Here, I won't talk much longer. Mr. Mali, I'm glad that when you expose and explain how pointless attacks on this country are, how truly from an economic point of view you explain to people in one simple and plastic way and something people understand. As a graduate lawyer, I've always handled the economy with one rational logic – the cheaper you produce, the more expensive you sell. It's kind of what people understand best. When they tell you here-- well, yes, our employees work for, I don't know, small wages in foreign companies, I just want to explain to people how stupid it is and how pointless it is. The fact is that our employee here at Simmons cannot have the same salary as the worker, as far as "Simensa" is concerned in Germany. It's impossible for him to have that kind of salary. Why? Because our employee has not seen modern technology for 20 years. You know, in 20 years and a few years, as long as it's been over, we've had sanctions here, later that thieving privatisation, etc., in 20 and a few years, people haven't worked, they haven't seen modern technology, and then when they tell you, they did, but in their time they were getting paid, and they were getting paid for not working, because they've ruined all the companies. The rest were naked walls, the sockets didn't stay in those companies, but they paid and bought social peace from the budget to people who didn't do anything. That's how they destroyed the earth. They've been raising loans that we pay back today to buy social peace. Today, on the contrary, that worker is going to the factory. In the morning he gets up, cheers the alarm clock in 6:30 in the morning or 6:00 in order to get to work, to work there, and to get paid for the work he was hired for. Is his salary adequate? It is for our terms. But it's not just about pay. This employee of ours who comes to this modern company today, who came from the West or wherever he's from, learns new technologies, he's dressed there. Later, when he leaves the company, he can start his production. It is a multiple benefit that we get from it, with each of these companies coming here having a product "made in Serbia", paying taxes here in Serbia. Multiple benefits from these companies. When someone says, "Well, why do we subsidize foreign companies and not subsidize our own companies?" Oh, that's not true. We also subsidize our companies that have a market somewhere. But, I'm sorry, I'm very sorry that Serbia doesn't have Mercedes or no BMW, and I'm very sorry that Serbia, for example, has no Bosch or Mile or something. Unfortunately, it's a very strong German company, but I hope somewhere, sometimes we'll reach that level of development that we have, at least half, that could be found somewhere on the market. Of course I'll subsidize to have such a company here, because it's making me multiple benefits, because the tax pays here, the worker trains me, brings me new technologies, which is all one benefit and profit for this country. I'm just asking you to keep doing that. It's incredibly important that foreign investors come to us. It's of extraordinary importance, because, as you can see, that's exactly why we've achieved our budget. It's a very difficult time for us. I'll finish this. We were able to see yesterday what was going on in the U.S. Congress for listening, where the avets who had destroyed us here in the 1990s had re-emerged. It's as clear as the day we're about to get ready. It's clear that with the new administration, I'm not sure we're going to have such a good relationship, I'm speaking to the American administration, as it was a relationship with a previous one. I hope we will, it's all a matter of lobbying and good relationships, interpersonal and so forth, but I would still ask that we allocate more significant resources to our security, above all this intelligence and counterintelligence, and certainly to fight crime and war and to modernise our army, because who knows. Look how suddenly it just bursts out of some of the frozen conflicts of conflict. Here, we had recently Azerbaijan and Armenia. We had one frozen conflict, still. I hope it doesn't freeze, and hopefully in the future we'll think exclusively about the development of our economy, that we'll think about new factories, how much we've earned, where we've been employed, if we can find a better job without thinking about conflicts. But, you know, unfortunately, the whole world is in conflict, this crisis affects everyone. After a major crisis, there are always conflicts and we have to think about it, people. I think that's why we're gonna have to make extra savings and investments for something we might, don't God, be black days. I hope it doesn't come to that. Of course, I'm going to support this budget, because I think it's a great revenue side that's bigger than last year is something that's very commendable, but I'm going to ask that the next situation be considered. Again this morning, I read an absolutely amazing attack on the children of the President of the Republic. That's who knows what attack, but that kind of defamation of family, so getting into somebody's children's political conflicts, it has to be stopped here once. I seriously suggest, and somewhere to think about it, to change the criminal legislation in that segment, to criminally sanction, to in fact incriminate this type of crime – slander to the family with a specially qualified form if this applies to children. You know, when someone gets that kind of maybe even prison sentences, they might not even think of that kind of thing doing any more. It's rude, it's shameful and scandalous to anyone's children, as much as you don't love someone, but it's embarrassing to have children and family put into political conflict. That's what inhumans do. That honorable man in any conflict, and even if I don't know how much you don't love someone, kids never touch each other, or family touches. It is shameful and indeed for every condemnation. I'd like to ask you to think about it, that maybe this crime is in place, because I don't know how else to fight some inhumans who do such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1472	Thank you. The system's still full. There's also a lunch break planned. I planned to give the word Ljiljana Malušić, who will understand that we will make an exception and give the word, I think the first presentation, colleague Marija Todorovic, is in a mild state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1473	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, it is my honor to speak of the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget, given that this budget is, above all, a developmental despite the crisis that has affected the whole world due to the pandemic of the Coronal Virus. What is most important is that our country has rightly responded to this crisis, so we can proudly talk about further development and progress in our country. I must point out that this budget, the 2021 budget, is the most important budget for our country, since this has been a difficult year for the whole world. What is most important to us is that for the first time in history, the state has taken the burden of the crisis upon itself, so that it has made it possible for our economy to live in a timely and efficient manner. We had two budget rebalancings this year that allowed the state to provide assistance where it was most needed, so I will only allocate some of the most important measures of assistance to the private sector, such as the payment of three minimum earnings, then the disposal of taxes and contributions, the moratorium on the repayment of loans, the assistance to adult citizens of 100 euros, the aid to health workers of 10,000 dinars and now announced assistance to the pensioners of 5,000 dinars, as well as assistance to hotelers and hosts and tourist agencies in the amount of one minimum profit. In addition to all these measures of assistance, we have made it possible by budget rebalance to build two covids of the hospital in Kruševec and Batajnica, of which the covid hospital in Batajnica receives patients already largely, and the opening of the covid of the hospital in Kruševec is expected in a few days. The budget for 2021 is certainly a logical trail of what was done in 2020. As the state responded in time to the crisis, as I have already said, and how we managed to preserve macroeconomic stability, so in 2021 we enter ready to continue Serbia's further planned development. As I have already noted, the 2021 budget will primarily be developmental. The state has the budget space to raise salaries and pensions, so as of January 1st, we will have a 5.9% pension increase, a minimum labour price increase of 6.6%, an increase in health care workers' salary of 5%, an increase in salaries to other public sector workers of 3.5%, and a further 1.5% increase is expected from April 1st. Also, we have announced salary increases for soldiers from April 1st to 10%. What is most important is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that the 2021 budget envisions that GDP growth will be about 6%, that the deficit will be under control and that macro-economic stability is fully under control. Serbia's public debt remains below 60% in 2021 and there will be room for further cuts, suggesting we keep macroeconomic stability under control. All of this clearly shows a new different picture of Serbia than we had until 2012. At that time, those who were supposed to deal with the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia's budget used for their own wealth, so today they cannot count their millions, as well as their apartments, whether they have 29 or 35 apartments, but I believe that our respected citizens cannot help but wonder how so many assets are acquired and therefore, between the redistribution of the budget and Dragan Gilas, there is certainly the electoral will of the citizens of Serbia, who give full support to those who work in their interest and care for them. When during the crisis, the state is shown to be stable, it certainly shows that we are becoming more attractive to investors, so in 2021 we expect 2.3 billion euros of foreign direct investment, the unemployment rate remains 7.3%, the historical lowest recorded. What I would also point out is that the 2021 budget forecasts for capital investments of 330 billion euros, which accounts for 5.5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I will only remind myself that only 3% of the budget was allocated in 2010. It is this high level of capital investment that should allow us to achieve the planned growth rate next year of 6%, as well as the planned high growth rates for the coming years. What is very important for our country is that Serbia continues to realise the 2025 programme in 2021. As someone who comes from the municipality of Bruce, one of the most important projects for our municipality is certainly the construction of the Gondola Brzeće – Mali Karaman, which we could hear yesterday. Our country has provided a guarantee of "Uncredited Bank" on the basis of this long-term investment loan. As I have already mentioned, as someone who comes from the municipality of Bruce, the municipality of whose territory this gondola is being built, I know very well how long this investment is expected in our municipality, for years, so I can say freely for decades our locals have been dreaming about this investment, because there was no connection with vertical transport from Brzeća to the center of Kopalnik, which was certainly a great shortfall for our municipality. What I'd like to say is that building a gondola is the largest tourist investment in our country, and in the last few years and that it is worth 27m euros. I'd say this investment is of great importance to our municipality and by building this investment, Bruce is getting a new chance to develop. The municipality of Brus has made great efforts to build approaches to the starting station in Brzeć, as well as parking at the starting station in Brzeć, and I will emphasise the extraordinary co-operation between the municipality of Bruce and the Public Enterprise of Serbia on land expropriation and other accompanying things on the construction of the gondola itself. Certainly, the construction of the gondola will revive the whole of Brussels side of Kopalnik and what's most important is that this is just an initial investment and we expect it to be only one in a row, that it will start many other investments. The importance of building a gondola for our municipality is immeasurable, and I would stress only some of the most important advantages, such as increased number of tourists in the town of Brzeća, then higher price of building land, higher number of tourists and accommodations, then rural households get a chance to place their domestic products that are really big in this place, and that they offer their private accommodations. The municipality of Bruce will be presented as a significant tourist destination, and what is most important for our municipality is that young people will get a chance to get a job. The work on gondola, I can say, has entered the final stage and in a few days we expect the gondola to be released to work and to receive its first skiers in this winter season, of course with respect to the protection measures prescribed. What I would end up saying is that in the voting day, I will certainly support this draft budget, as well as all the accompanying proposals, and I think it is clear that it has once again proved to be clear from this budget proposal for 2021 that our President Aleksandar Vukic is leading a very responsible policy towards the citizens of our country and that is why he gets the majority support of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1474	Thank you and congratulations on the first very substantial presentation. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour and continue our work at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Ljiljana Malusic was next reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1476	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, of course I will support the amendments proposed by the Government, because the government is really doing great. What does that mean? That means we've had a surplus in the budget for four years in a row. And speaking of budgets, it's one of the most important laws, in fact, the most important law, along with the budget system, the final bill, to be passed in this high house at the end of the year. The budget planned for 2021, with all receipts and revenues, is 1.336.3 billion dinars, which is more than 45 billion dinars compared to what was projected in the 2020 budget rebalancing, or by 3.5%. The budget, said Mr. Mali, as my colleague, the gromada of finance, a great man, is based on two pillars, and above all it is a better life or standard for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then investment projects by 2025. The budget is developmental, which means capital investments will be 2.8 billion euros. Fantastic. So we'll continue to do infrastructure projects continuously. Then inflation foreseen in 2021 is 1.6% and public debt should be reduced and 58.5%. What is very important to point out, as regards the improvement of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is certainly an increase in wages and pensions, and since 1 January we are going to increase 5% for healthcare workers, pensions are going according to the Swiss model, the increase is 5.9%. In the public sector, salary increases go from January 1st, 3.5% to an additional 1.5% from April 1st, a total of 5%, and for security forces also from April 1st. That's how it works. That's how the responsible state works. Speaking of pensions, 5.9% is an increase for pensioners, according to the Swiss model. That should be pointed out. It should also be said that this year the average pension was 27,764 dinars, and that in 2021 it will be 29,402 dinars. The average pension will be 430 euros in 2025. The average salary is now 510 euros, and in 2025 it will be around 900 euros. Good for the government of the Republic of Serbia, that's the way it works. I must stress that, given that we had the monster that came after us, the bastard who destroyed us, I mean the world, I don't mean Serbia, which is said by the distinguished Mrs. Argel Merkel, that we will best pass how we behave responsibly and what we have done for our country. There's a hospital in Batajnica, 930 seats, 250 for intensive care. Unfortunately, it's intense and it's very bad news. I beg again and appeal to all men to wear masks, to protect themselves, to be responsible. If we don't, that hospital will be full. We'll be finished with another hospital in Krusevec, but, my fellow citizens, fellow citizens, friends, be responsible, because there's 500 seats there, if we have seven to eight thousand a day, it won't help us either. You know what the problem is? The problem is that in Belgrade we only have two hospitals right now, because of irresponsible people. I'm not saying, there's everything, there's a crown all around us, but let's be responsible and cut that monster down. We only have two hospitals in Belgrade, the Clinical Center and VMA, where we can treat ourselves from normal diseases, ordinary ones. This will pass. There'll be vaccines. The Republic of Serbia has provided free vaccines for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Good for that. They pay everywhere in the world, but here they don't. To contain this monster somehow, she didn't come back. I have to point out, not to go too far, because I am emotional when I talk about it, among people who are no longer alive are my friends, there are many infected around me, my friends and relatives, but I also have to say a few sentences about infrastructure projects. We're really doing everything we can. In a few years, we built 350 kilometers of highways. We're going on with the construction. Next year it will be finished Preljina-Požega, 30.9 kilometers, Sremska Raca-Kuzine is being built, the highway will be completed in 2022, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica is built, 77 km, the Moravski Corridor 112 kilometers and the mass of highways and first row roads. As far as the railways are concerned, I think it's the most exciting part. Over 50 years, no one has invested a living dinar in the railroad. For the first time. A 800km rail has been reconstructed, will be reconstructed for another 300km by 2025. We bought 48 new trains, bought 16 wagons for cargo locomotives. We're doing really well. I will certainly support all the financial laws, and above all, the budget. Once again - citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please be responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1477	Thank you. Next on the list is MP Petar Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1478	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have come forward for an amendment proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which relates to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021. I must first say that I am extremely pleased that the budget for 2021 is the budget of continuity and the budget that will continue all the good that has been done in the Republic of Serbia during the rule of the SNS. It is simply amazing that Serbia will have enough resources in 2021, in addition to this huge Kovid crisis and a huge pandemic that has not only affected health, but also the economy and economy to continue huge infrastructure projects, to continue to invest in the economy and economy, and thus significantly increase the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, but also significantly increase both salaries and pensions for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Only with a responsible and stable policy are we today able to have one stable budget which, despite all the crises, will remain stable and which will likely have a significant surplus next year. What's important to note is that it wasn't easy. Every real host in Serbia knows that first if he wants to do something good for himself and his family, he must save enough funds in his budget first, and then invest those funds. The previous authorities, and especially the authorities from 2000 to 2012, did not do so, but they over-indebted themselves and eventually became slaves to these duties and left us with a country on the verge of one ambience, which is why the prime minister, and now the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, who made serious budgetary and economic cuts and who managed to stabilise our economy, our economy and our budget, and now to lead a major economic economic progress of the Republic of Serbia. As a young doctor, I am particularly pleased that since 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the whole state has had one serious plan for the progress and improvement of our health system. You know, from 2000 to 2012 the health care system was in total ruin. We had medical facilities that weren't good, infrastructure weren't good for patients, we didn't have enough medicine, we didn't have enough equipment, and we didn't have enough doctors or medical workers, and that was one huge problem. Since 2014, there has been a serious investment of the state in the health system and a serious investment in the health institution itself and all health workers working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It was not easy, but it was something necessary and now it has proved to be a serious investment that we launched in 2014, giving Serbia's health system the opportunity to survive in such a big problem as the crisis. Something I would like to point out is that, by means of a 2020 plan of the Republic of Serbia, or 2025, the Serbian government has defined as much as a billion euros in the health system, which is extremely important. Simply, there is no part of Serbia in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not invested in a health system, whether it has been restored to some hospitals, whether it has been renovated departments or the entire hospital, or if we have begun to build entirely new hospitals and health centres, such as Nis Health Centre, the Health Centre of Serbia, i.e. KC Serbia, Tirsh's clinic and many others. Prokuplje, a city from which I come, in 2021 in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ends a large health center that stretches to more than 30,000 square metres and will have a fully modern modern equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, not only Probučana but also all inhabitants of the Toplic district. In this way, we will provide the Toplicians with a modern health system, but we will also significantly relieve the Nis Clinical Center as a therapeutic health institution to which all these patients are gravitating. What's very important is that we all realize that the health system is not only made up of buildings, it's not just appliances, it's that they're the most important part of the human health system, the healthcare workers that work in that system. The problem of healthcare came from 2000 to 2012 because we didn't hire new doctors, we didn't hire new nurses, and thus we created that in the health care system there is a big gap between the old doctors who need to retire, they are specialists and young doctors who are not ready to take over their work. You know, in the health care system, it's not that simple to hire a doctor and let him work right away. To have a specialist who's willing to keep working and to fight for patients, it takes a long period of time to get him to school. First you have six years of primary education, then five or six years of specialization, and when the doctor finishes specialization, he is not fully prepared to take over the job, but he needs to spend a year or two years with an older and more experienced colleague from whom he will learn something else and who will find himself there to advise him in any doubt. This means that you would have had a specialist in the health care system for 12 to 14 years and that is why it is necessary and very important for you to have a continuous plan for the development of the health system. We have not had such a plan of the health system, i.e. the development of the health system since 2012. The initiative of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Ministry of Health, of course, began hiring the best medical students. We hire the best medical students every year. These students get jobs at once, get specials, get doctoral studies. And by doing so, we fight to keep young, best medical students in Serbia, to get specializations from the fields they want and to continue to do scientific research. In addition to students, the best high school students are employed each year. In the course of this year alone, we hired nearly four thousand young health workers. These are all those health workers who are today carriers of the fight against the covidemia and without these young doctors, without these young nurses and technicians fighting the birds would be much more difficult and believe me much different. The former authorities, i.e. ministers, did not employ new doctors and health workers and were saving on sanitary material, needles, syringes, vats and many medicines, especially during Minister Milosavljevic. At that time, almost no new medication was introduced into the health care system for the treatment of severe illnesses or some completely new drugs that are very expensive. A major problem with the health care system has arisen when wages are significantly reduced to drivers who work in the health system, or drivers who work in homes of health and hospitals. They didn't realize how important drivers are in the health care system. The driver is not only the man who will translate the patient from point A to point B. In emergency, in emergency medicine the driver was educated to provide first aid, to help the team in rescue situations, in car accidents when there are resuscitations or any difficult conditions. We in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the SNS when it came to power we significantly increased salaries, not only for doctors and nurses, but for all employees in the health care system and I am glad that in 2021 there will be years of healthcare workers when their salaries will continue to increase, which is very important not only for the health care system but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to say two things for the very end. First of all, the vaccines against the coronary virus, and as just a young doctor, I don't understand how suddenly, especially the opposition people and some of their associates, are so much of an idea that they're raising dust against vaccines. You know, vaccines saved civilization. The world's most severe diseases are saved by timely vaccination. Serbia is a country along with the Torlak Institute that exported vaccines to third-world countries. Now I'm just wondering, why suddenly the need to spread fear among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when the vaccine is an ideal medicine, one of the best medicines that we can prevent from being vaccinated. Suddenly they began to spread stories that Serbia would receive the vaccine first for Kovid 19, that we would be guinea pigs to be tested, and a few days later we see world news that the first state to move is Great Britain, and now it is joined by Canada and other countries. Does this mean that they are now guinea pigs for these vaccines or that it was false news that they tried to place, to introduce one fear and panic among citizens and to reduce the importance of Serbia's health system, and we all see how good the health system is important to one country. For the very end, as far as the budget is concerned, I'd like to mention the town of Prokuplje. The town of Prokuplje is one of the most beautiful cities in southern Serbia, the city that was destroyed from 2000 to 2012 by the looting privatisations that were on the territory of all Serbia. In Prokuplje, huge companies, including the FOM-painted Metal Factory, were known Conditoral Company Hesar and many others. These companies were destroyed and sold, and the money was lost. Thousands of citizens of Prokupira lost their jobs and had to fight daily for a piece of bread for themselves and for their family. Today we can boast that Prokuplje is a small industrial centre, that in Prokupje next year we have a continuation of large and very important investments among which is the reconstruction of the high school, the construction of a completely new library, the reconstruction of cinemas, the translation of small markets and many other projects. The most important project that will mean not only Prokuplje, but also for the entire Toplice is the Niš highway – Pristina. It is a highway that will lead the Cup to a business map of Serbia, which will allow Serbia to become very competitive for attracting foreign and domestic investment because companies investing in Prokuplje will be directly increased on the highway connecting Toplice with Europe and Toplice with ports in the Adriatic, which is very useful for exporting products. That's very important. The city of Prokuplje, in order to be ready immediately for such an economic expansion in our area, has begun to build a modern industrial zone that will have all the necessary connections and that will immediately be ready to offer to all foreign investors. That's why, Minister, as well as the entire government, I am asking you today to help us find that industrial zone as soon as it's ready to find investors and get investors into the Cup right away because the Cup isn't just the key for the Buyers, it's the whole Toplice. That's why it's very important. For the very end, I would ask you all as a health care worker in front of the profession to follow the measure, to wear masks, to keep your distance and to help me and my colleagues deal with the crown. We have a huge number of patients every day. Our health system isn't as ruined as many people are trying to show it. We don't keep patients in the hallway. All our patients have oxygen. They have all the necessary medications. All who are in hospital treatment include double or triple antibiotic therapy. Modern medicines that are being used throughout Europe are included, but it is very important that, by following the measure, we reduce the total number of patients, to relieve the health system, and to welcome the vaccine against the covids, thereby completely preventing the further expansion of the corona of the virus and being ready to rise economically as soon as the corona stops. In voting day, I will fully support the 2021 budget plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1479	Thank you. The next on the list is Violeta Okokolić's folk letter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1480	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the government has tabled three amendments to this draft budget law. The amendments to Article 3 shall be amended accordingly. The draft budget law refers to the loan agreement with the French Development Agency, which you discussed last week and which was signed last week, which concerns financing the modernisation of the railway in Serbia, as well as the loan for the efficiency of the public sector and the green recovery. Since these amendments submitted by the government are an integral part of the budget and the draft budget for next year, I must also look back at the draft budget for the following year. This draft budget for next year details all micro and macroeconomic developments, all projections, all planned risks, all possible expenditures, but what is very important for citizens to know is that this budget was created on the basis of the real planned revenues for next year. I would also say that with this draft budget, the government has not only made the right measure and balance, but has completely exceeded the expectations of all of us, by seizing up to 35% more money for capital investments than last year. This is also important for our citizens to know, because investment in capital investment is actually the basis and condition for the growth of gross domestic product. That's why next year we can plan from this gross domestic product and raise pensions by Swiss model and raise wages in the public sector, but raising and making minimum profits for our citizens. Given that I come from the tourism sector, I am particularly pleased that the government has been able to respond in due time when it comes to this particular sector that is extremely affected by this entire pandemic of the coronary virus. Hotel support was extremely important. I am extremely pleased that the government has managed to grant direct subsidies to help hotelers, amounting to 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room, because the fact that city hotels were in fact the most affected by this pandemic of virus coronarys in the absence of foreign tourists, in the absence of business travel, in the absence of all those conventions and organisations that were to be organised in our cities. Also, there is a public invitation to grant subsidies to encourage tourist agencies and tour operators to cover the costs of security, travel guarantees, and a few days ago the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and you respected ministers announced additional assistance to this sector, and in the amount of one minimum wage for workers in tourist agencies, renters agencies, hotelers, caterers and a very important sector, i.e. part of the sector to tourist guides, to them this assistance will be extremely important and thank them on behalf of and tourist agencies, as well as all workers working in the tourism sector. On the one hand, this pandemic of the coronary virus and how it affected the work and business and hotels, as well as tourist agencies, and on the other, and how it positively affected the development of domestic tourism. The fact is that this year's service providers in domestic work and in rural tourist households had their hands full, is also the fact that in October they were looking for a place more in our spas, and the famous "Forbs" has declared Serbia as one of the five priorities of the destination that should be reminded immediately after the end of the pandemic of the coronary virus, and therefore I think that every investment in the tourism sector is important and how significant and multiple costful, and I am glad that next year it continues with the award of a voucher for accommodation and summering in Serbia, which is additional money for this because it is the right measure and the first incentive for the development of domestic tourism. President Aleksandar Vucic has defined, and in her exhibition, the prime minister defined the six priority goals of the new government at the special session of the next Assembly, which are the fight to preserve the health of our citizens, the fight to preserve our interests in KIM, and then continue to work on accelerated reforms, continue to strengthen Serbia's economy, fight against crime and corruption, but also an independent decision on Serbia's independent and independent decision-making. It is good to hear these goals from time to time here so that in all the challenges facing the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a year and a half we can measure the effects of government work right here in the National Assembly and while some who are now representing themselves as leaders of the opposition managed to measure just how much money they put in their pockets, so we counted millions and reached 619 million, then, how much real estate they acquired, so they reached the figure of 35 properties at the most exclusive locations in Belgrade. The fact is that we can only expect from this government how many new kilometers of highways they're going to build, how many new factories they're going to open, how many schools and hospitals they're going to reconstruct and how much they're going to affect the raising of the standard of living of all citizens. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, I will certainly support a set of budget laws for these reasons that I have listed here, as well as those I have not stated, because I have not arrived, but also the draft budget bill for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1481	I would especially like to point out that this was the first presentation of the People's Parliament and I wish you a great deal of success. Next up is MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1482	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, this is the time they will learn about in schools. This is a major health and economic crisis and this is something we haven't been to. The economic crisis is different from everyone else. To have enough money today, NBS reduces the interest rate referencer, transport is the essence of the economic crisis. A different crisis than everyone else, are we going to have a flood of money that we already have today, hence inflation, an increase in interest rates and MPLs, or are we going to have a deficit due to lack of traffic, deflation and an increase in unemployment levels? Or when the crisis is over, we'll put it all back to square one? This is an economic crisis that will be taught in schools, and what will be written in textbooks depends on how we are experiencing today, each individual perception of the economic crisis. It took three years for the 2008 crisis to reach its peak, three years for the 1929 crisis to reach its maximum, three weeks for the 2020 crisis to meet where we are and we don't have a clear picture of what today's economy in the world looks like. One economy grows and develops, others are in technical recession, as GDP growth is below 0%. It is clear that some countries are trying to extract their economies through primary emissions, but the question is whether the central bank is powerful enough to get out of this crisis. Other companies disappear and fail, we just have a different picture. On 27 March 2020, the EU said - we have a two-week programme of economic measures, after which everything will return to normal. It's December. Nothing's normal anymore. This is important because these are the initial assumptions for the 2021 budget. It is the time in which we live, the time in which we create the budget and it is not disputed that the budget is the most significant legal, economic act of a fiscal space, means the entire space where Serbs live in the Balkans, but the budget is a real and planned category. You, Mr. Minister, have clearly shown in previous years what smart planning of the Republic of Serbia's budget looks like. We've been smart enough, we've had enough knowledge that we've never been able to rebalance the budget since 2015. In a difficult time, in a time of fiscal consolidation we could have predicted. We could have predicted because we changed Serbia and what some of us needed before us to do in the 1990s, in 2000. They didn't, we started from scratch to change Serbia's economic order. The budget is the time when you draw lines and times when you say what we did in the previous time period. From 2015 to 2018, we saved the Serbian economy. In 2019 until March 2020, we harvested the fruits of high economic growth and low unemployment. Since 2020, since March, we have been running a social policy on how Serbia can survive in difficult times of health and economic crisis. It is undeniable that we have invested a significant part of the financial resources in health, it is undeniable that we have had protectionist measures in the area of economy, it is undeniable that we have defended the social status of Serbian citizens. And we did it. We succeeded thanks to you from the finance ministry, the NBS and the president of Serbia. What did we do? We've made our GDP in technical maybe recession, but the best GDP in Europe right now. We made us have a low unemployment rate, and we made money measures, primarily, a stable rate of dinars, that is, we don't have inflation. We did it because we knew what we were doing and it cost us six billion euros. When they say this crisis has no consequence in Serbia's economy, they do. If we hadn't had an economic crisis, if we hadn't had a pandemic, we'd have a 6% growth and probably two, three billion public spending, personal spending more in Serbia. If it hadn't been for the economic crisis, another factor wouldn't have had a deficit. It's normal, it's perfectly normal for us to have a deficit in terms of the economic crisis. But we certainly wouldn't have it if it wasn't for the economic crisis. So in 2015, we changed Serbia as this generation and it's an integral part of the budget, because the budget and the generation thing, it's made up of what we inherit from previous generations, what we earn as generations and what we leave behind for future generations, or we're going to owe them. The generation gap says that since 2015 we have earned these six billion euros to pay for the crisis costs this year, that we have earned probably two more years to pay another 12 billion economic measures because this crisis does not end in 2020. Today, when we talk about the rules of economic policy, we usually say that we have to stick to some of the principles defined by the EU, so we say that we have to be at 3% of the deficit, that we have to be at 60% of the public debt. This is a crisis time, a crisis non-region, it wouldn't surprise me at all, and we have no reason to say we're going to have a 3% deficit. We can have a larger deficit without any problems, we're economically capable of bringing it up in 2021 and 2022, probably in 2023. EU countries that tell us about principles and rules today are in huge problems where MPL is growing in all EU countries where public debt is growing and we practically have three more years of such monetary policies and economic and fiscal policies to catch up with them. Where she'll be then, it's a matter we shouldn't discuss. In fact, with the 2021 budget, we should keep doing what we did in 2020. To defend three key economics levels of unemployment, inflation rates and defend social gross product. We will continue to do so with the measures we bring and which we will bring about the budget rebalances that are likely to be in 2021. We should never forget it's not easy. The budget consists of micro-economics, the problems that our employees of private jobs have, should never be considered to be an integral part of Serbia's economy, the Republic of Serbia's budget that is not easy, is a major crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at the results of 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and the results we did in the crisis time of 2020, it is clear that the Serbian Government has full support in the Serbian Parliament and Serbian citizens for measures that deliver good economic results. That is why there is nothing left for us in the Serbian Parliament but to vote for this crisis, a difficult budget, but a budget that will make Serbia stronger from this difficult time, as well as in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1483	Thank you. National MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1484	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, distinguished fellow citizens, at the very beginning I would like to commend the current course of discussion as one of the very contentable, very constructive from which our fellow citizens could see the clear measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will take in the next period that has been embodied in the draft budget for 2021, which will allow us to continue with economic growth, to continue with economic development where we have somewhat stopped in this difficult year. The pandemic of the coronary virus has set a difficult task for the whole world, the task of preserving economic activity, the task of preserving jobs, the task of preserving the living standard of the population. In response to the challenges posed by the health crisis ahead of the economy, the government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared a package of economic measures to support the population and an economy of six billion euros. A package that will greatly help the recovery, i.e. the continuation of the development of our economy. A package that's 12.7 GDP. This package of strong support, I think, I'm pretty sure, much more developed and richer countries haven't applied. Definitely, in the current crisis, this package of measures that is still under way has produced very good results. So there's no reason why it shouldn't be in the next period. We are proud of the fact that in times like this, we have managed to preserve employment, so we have managed to preserve jobs, and that is the fact, and it best illustrates one piece of information, which is that in this difficult year, employment, or unemployment, has been reduced to a record low of 7.3%. So, once again, these measures have already produced extremely good results. If it wasn't for our downfall, it would have been at least six percent. In this way, their effect is good and we will have one of the best, or best economic results in Europe or a more precise decline of one percent. However, through the tycoon media, Dragan Gilas, self-proclaimed elites and failed politicians criticise, without arguments, attack by President Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia for measures of support carried out, although they have apparently produced good results according to all criteria. I don't know what we were supposed to do by them, whether we should have let tens of thousands of workers lose their jobs, stay on the street, run out of income. The government and President Vukic chose a fight policy for every man, a battle policy for every job, and we did it. So, in terms of never trying in the last few decades, we've managed to keep our jobs. This is what SNS distinguishes from former owners Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others, who didn't care about the people, who didn't care about hundreds of thousands of workers who left on the street after the robbery privatisations, while they at the same time became homelessly rich. For the Serbian Progressive Party, each preserved job, every newly opened job, is a great success, and it will also be the star of the leader of our policy in the future. The economic policy implemented by the government and the president during the previous period, during this very furtime, has shown all its justification and purpose. So despite everything, despite the global situation, we will continue to move towards the realisation of the plan that we have outlined, which is "Serbia 2025" when we want to reach the level where the average salary will be 900 euros and the average pension of 430 euros. A significant step in this direction will also be envisaged to increase earnings, raise pensions and raise the minimum labour price from the new year. In recent years, the state has paid great attention to health care, fortunately through reconstruction and construction of new hospitals, through the acquisition of medical equipment, through the repair of the material position of health workers, who will have a special place in this increase in earnings since New Year's Eve. So their salaries will be up 5%. I'll remind you that only in the last year and a half this third raise is for medical workers. So last year they had an increase of 10-15%, doctors 10%, nurses and technicians 15%. This year's salaries to medical workers have increased by another 10% and since the New Year will have a 5% increase, not to mention the one-time assistance that healthcare professionals received on two occasions this year. On the other hand, many EU countries are not only unable to raise salaries to their workers, but there are those who are trying to make certain savings at the expense of their healthcare workers. Such an example is Croatia, where recently doctors who work in the most difficult conditions, I mean doctors who work with a bunch of patients, who risk their health, get 20% less profit. So doctors who bear the greatest burden of this battle in Croatia have received 20% less profit, while we pay healthcare workers to grow. Of course, salaries will be increased for other public sector employees as of January 3.5% and after April by 1.5%. What is important for Serbian citizens to know that pensions are being paid today from real income, and not like in 2008 when former authorities for artificial pay-up and pensions were taking expensive loans that we are returning today, which are likely to be paid back by our successors. In 2021, this budget shows that we will continue to promote economic growth, primarily through tax redundancy, but also through record capital investments. Despite the pandemic of the coronary virus, no single project planned has been questioned. On the contrary, we planned new capital projects, and the funds were provided, so the budget for 2021 envisions a record 330 billion dinars. So, many important projects will be realised across Serbia, but I will look only for a moment at one part of our country, the Podrinje, which in times of former owners was devastated, devastated, where people from their cities and villages were moving out in lack of employment, in the absence of quality infrastructure, and today, in Podrinj, the situation as well as in all of Serbia is changing. What I, as a Lozničan, want to point out with special satisfaction, will be continued in 2021 with the reconstruction of the General Hospital in Loznica, that the construction of a bypass around the Loznica is worth about 600 million dinars and is particularly important, the continuation of the works on the construction of the Ruma – Šabac – Loznica car, i.e. the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic of Šabac-Loznica, which will mean a lot both Podrinj and Loznica, and generally raise the quality of people's lives in these parts. Thanks to President Vukic, with all the necessary preconditions provided by local self-government in Loznica, we today have two factories "Adient" and "Mint", which will employ about 2,500 workers in full capacity. At the end of this traffic station, we will additionally open the door to potential new investors to come and to our city and generally to Podrinje. Also, as far as I have seen in the 2021 budget, significant funds have been planned for the reconstruction of bridges, for the construction of bridges, so all bridges, i.e. all the border crossings on Drina, will be reconstructed, where we will thus ensure a better connection with our people in Republika Srpska. The new bridges will be built on the Sava, and at Sapca there are already works under way, a new bridge will be built on the Sava in Belgrade. However, I must again mention to Serbian citizens the hated name of tycoon Dragan Gilas, who criticises all projects that are being realised or will be realised in Serbia, as well as in Belgrade, including this bridge in the city centre that is planned to be built. I suppose the reason is that in the performance of the work, in these jobs, Dragan Gilas cannot participate as it would be the case with the bridge on Adi, as it has been, in the last days, exposed, where the data surfaced, if he had taken bribes from the contractors at the level of several million euros. I sincerely hope that the judicial authorities under the law will examine and determine how and on whose order they have paid in just one tranche of 2.5m euros to the Greek firm, it seems to me to be called "Sil", whose representative is a Serbian citizen, who is once again a close friend of the godmother Dragan Gilas. I will remind myself, or I will call for a sentence from some of the previous sessions, colleagues of Aleksandar Markovic, that whenever it comes to swindling around apartments, about real estate, about similar jobs, somehow it always turns out to be the name of Dragan Gilas, his associates, friends, godfathers, etc. Whether the judicial authorities will finally do their job in accordance with the law and instead of prohibiting the talk of thieving and malfeasance by Dragan Gilas, whether they will once determine what was going on here. On the other hand, Serbian citizens know that well. To leave Dragan Gilas with judicial authorities, let us hope that the case will soon be settled under the law. Serbia today is both a politically and economically stable country, a country that investors recognise as a country with a favourable business climate in these difficult times, at the time of the pandemic. I will underline one piece of information, in the first 10 months of 2020, 1.9 billion direct investment in Serbia, which is 60% of total foreign investment in the entire Western Balkans region. We will continue in that direction in 2021. It is not an accident, because I will remind you that the Financial Times in the last two out of three years has classified Serbia as number one in the world by attracting foreign investment. He's saying something. So, these economic indicators that I've expressed, I'm not just saying I, not only am I, nor are my colleagues, the prominent international institutions confirm that, and these are things that are undeniable. At the very end, I will vote with great satisfaction for the draft budget, for these amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because by adopting this budget through the measures provided for in it, we continue the safe path towards the implementation of the 2025 plan, so the road to Serbia in which we will live on the salary of an average of 900 euros, pensions of 430 euros, in a country with even more bridges, roads, hospitals, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1485	Thank you. Since there are no more reported under this amendment, we move on to the next one. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. According to the lists, the word has been made by MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1486	Thank you, Mr. President. When we talk about amendments, given that this amendment is a government, of course we will support it, I personally and the SNS parliamentary group. In my humble opinion, the budget is a home wallet with a large number of householders, with great needs and great demands. It's not easy to manage with great needs, great demands, but it seems to me that this government, the president, is doing very well. In order to have a good budget, we have to have a successful income side. There's little talk about the revenue side, but if we have a good income side, we have basically a good economy, which is what we all aim at having a good economy, then we have good income, good pay, good realisation and raising citizens' standards. Speaking of housewives, I think agriculture deserves a lot of attention, and this budget is what's done. In this year, 60 billion dinars or 5.2% more than last year's budget were allocated to agriculture, and in absolute terms it is 3.6 billion. We all know that agriculture, our peasants, whenever it's most difficult, they carry crisis moments, from war conditions and all others, and it turns out that even in this pandemic of the crown of the virus, they do it very well. Basically, agriculture is in the food production final. When you look with attention to agriculture both towards relations and financially with attention and with the opportunities that this budget allows, I think our agriculture will also advance from the current level. It's mentioned here a lot of the standard. Most often we mention that personal standard. It's salaries and pensions. Great. Even in the perspective that we will have 430 euros average pension and 900 euros average salary. In order for the overall standard to be good, a general standard must be met. When those two cross, then you get a common good standard. The general standard is to provide our citizens with good infrastructure. It primarily refers to roads, water, electricity, sidewalk, public lighting, sewers, etc. This general standard we see for ourselves that this budget and the previous budgets are much of anticipating investment. If we raise that general standard, we have thus raised the personal standard of all our citizens. When it comes to that, I'll say something about roads. For example, my municipality of Koceljeva is located 30 kilometers from highways or future highways. It's from Milos the Great 30km, from the future Ruma-Shabac highway 30km and the future road to Valjev, i.e. to Iverko, it's 30km. So it's a very good position on the highways. In order for these highways to have full significance, they need access to highways to be renovated, to build and make that network of lower roads in one good condition so that all places have one good access to highways and fast roads. So I suggest, I have said this before, that the state road from Koceljeva to Milos the Great via Ub renovate, to get Koceljeva a good traffic to the highway, until the roads to Šapec are built, or Valjev. The reconstruction of the state road from Koceljeva to Osecina, i.e. to Love, has been started and some seven kilometers has been done. I suggest that this trip, meaning Koceljeva via Lower Black and Kamenica to Osecina, is speeded up, to renovate. From Osecina, of course I propose via Pecka, Proslop to Ljubovija, i.e. the new bridge on Drina to Bratunac. I think it's an interesting car that we should be treating in a way that we have in western Serbia that's got this vascular cookhouse that's going through the inside and it's going out on Drin. I think the time has come and the time has come for us to have to go down to the level to do those less significant roads or rural roads. We mainly have a dissociated system of settlements in Serbia, i.e. in the rural area of Serbia, including Vojvodina. In order for the people to remain there, they must have a basic good infrastructure. Local self-government should work on that infrastructure, but I think the state's help should come at a given moment, because if we do major traffic, and we don't do those capillaries, then we haven't got that close enough to the citizens, and our goal is to bring all citizens closer to having a good path. Of course, this also applies to water, it also applies to good electricity, telecommunications without which today, practically, is not possible to function. So I suggest that, in today's and the next consideration of road construction, we also consider the ways of the lower order. Water supply, maybe water is the most important infrastructure, and given the world's movements, water already existed and there's a strategic thing that... drinking water will be the one that will define the development of one environment, because whoever has enough drinking water I think he thinks his perspective is guaranteed. I'll say something about a regional water line that's tied to the battery of the lube. Accumulation of the stuborol is complete. And if I'm not mistaken, it's about 153 or 155 trillion cc's of water. That water has not yet gained its full meaning. She's in accumulation, she needs to be processed and allowed to be used by the population. That's where the government and the president of the state launched one action. One city and six municipalities will practically be supplied with this water system and that is one serious action. I think that's a lot of work done and done, but we're just about to finish our design and all the paperwork that's been going on so that it can be built, that's to provide the funds. There is the town of Valjevo, Lazarjevac, Ljig, Ub, Mininica, Lajkovac and Koceljeva. All these environments do not have sufficient amounts of water or lack sufficient perspective water. I think that's where the Lazarets stand out, but all the other municipalities have a great need for water supply. For these reasons, I suggest that we use the soon-to-be accumulation of the Rovni pillar to power this one city and these six municipalities as soon as possible. Of course, as a purifier that needs to be worked on a cave in Valjevo, etc. I don't think wearing all this in these times is easy, but a stable and growing economy in Serbia has only been able to bear this burden of the coronary pandemic virus and remain the best in Europe for economic growth this year and in forecasts for the next two years. What I want to conclude with today's address is to say that, in addition to all the givings and stimuli given in this year, every adult citizen has been given 100 euros, it is a well-known thing, but no ruler in Serbia since the beginning of Serbia to the day of today has given every adult citizen 100 euros. So, not a single one. It's the first time that's happened now. So, the people are very pleased. A small number, of course, and everywhere, but the only ruler is Aleksandar Vukic, who has made it possible for every adult citizen to give 100 euros at this time of crisis. I thank him on behalf of all the citizens who have received these 100 euros, and, of course, on my own behalf and I want progress on this Serbia under the leadership of our President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1487	Thank you, Mr. Matice. As the MPs asked questions, people's MPs, Stojmirović, Arsic, Pupovac MPs, etc, were reported in our records, so that you too would have information. The word is Mr. Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Chairmanship of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Sinisa Mali and her fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about amendments to the draft budget, we are talking about perhaps the most important topic for us, perhaps the most important task of each National Assembly. When we talk about the budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like, above all, to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the excellent amendments, because through these amendments we will carry out many more projects in the coming year. In particular, money will be redistributed in a much more efficient way when it comes to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, but these amendments give us the opportunity to make much better arrangements with foreign investment funds and banks, in particular with France when it comes to modernising our railways, but also when it comes to the Green Efficiency project, that is, the recovery of our public sector in this direction. These projects will only be much more favourable because these amendments, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, will introduce a specific financial instrument called Hexing. Hexing involves a financial instrument used in public transactions, in various transactions, but also in investments, and it will allow us to protect ourselves from any risk. Hexing in a literal translation would mean setting up a fence, or building up. In this way, we will fence ourselves from any risk in the future, especially with regard to potential credit borrowing or broadcasting of government securities of value, or bonds. When it comes to hedging, it implies using certain financial derivatives such as options, folds and futures that will allow us in a much more rational way at the beginning to fix a certain price to avoid any possible negative extranalia when it comes to various fluctuations in prices, exchange rates or interest rates. This is a very useful instrument, and certainly many Western countries, and the United States, it and how much they use it. Since I talked about the results in the previous presentation, especially on the economic and economic plan, which we have achieved since 2012, and to this day thanks to the efforts, ideas and vision of Alexander Vukic and his team, today I will talk more about some key items for the budget for the coming year. We anticipate an increase in wages and pensions, as well as minimum earnings. Salaries will be increased in the public sector of 3.5% in January, 1.5% in April, for doctors in January 5%, and pensions will be increased by the Swiss model of 5.9%, of course by the Swiss formula that includes inflation in its calculation. There is also an increase in minimum earnings from an average of 30.137 dinars to 32.216 dinars, which can be said to be about 2,000 dinars higher, especially in these conditions of the crown crisis. The planned economic growth will be about 6% for next year, and most importantly, our exports will increase by around 9.6% compared to the previous year due to the increase and strengthening of our production capacities, but also thanks to stronger external demand and growth in the euro area. As for the 2021 budget, total revenues are projected to be 3.5% higher than those foreseen by the 2020 budget rebalance. The growth of income income from income taxes, additional value taxes, donations, excise duties and also vehicle registration taxes is also foreseen. This available fiscal space will be used in the best possible way and we will focus it on capital investment and public investment, because this is the best basis for dynamic economic growth, and yet we will maintain stable public finances. In the next two years, we will have the biggest growth in Europe. That's according to IMF projections. Also, a larger inflow of foreign direct investment is expected in the coming years, and this all contributes to the achievement of our 2025 plan, envisioning an average salary of 900 euros and pensions of 430 to 440 euros. We believe that economic growth is the most important segment of one country's economic development, so we will increase that non-taxable part of profit from 16300 to 18,300 dinars, and in this way we will disburse businesses, allow new jobs to be opened. Capital investments in next year are record. The capital investment will be invested 2.8 billion euros, will boost the economy, our manufacturing sector, traffic, the tourism sector, construction, and this will be followed by strengthening overall domestic capacity, production capacity and domestic demand. As far as our monetary policies are concerned, our inflation is and will be low, about 2%. The reference interest rate is the lowest of 1.25%, which further encourages credit activities in our country and our exchange rate will be stable, around 117 dinars for the euro, which contributes to the preservation of the stability of our prices, and public debt in the coming years will remain below the level of the 60% master. In this crisis year, it's important to mention, we've increased the gold reserves to 35.4 tons, which is a very big result and a great success for our country. Based on this, we will, in an additional period, especially our NBS, work to dinarise the entire financial system in the Republic of Serbia. As for some concrete projects, I would refer to a very important project. We signed an agreement with France, but also an agreement with China to build a subway. Finally, the subway after almost 100 years. The first mention of the subway, which is our decades-old dream, was since 1938, and when a certain Mr. Ratimir D. Nikolic in Belgrade's municipal newspaper, means 1938, he predicted the construction of a three-line radial network with a common station under the Terrace. It's very important to me because I come from the township of Chukarica, I'm proud of Chukarican, and I worked in the town municipality of Chukarica as coordinator of the Youth Office. I can see that importance for Chukarica, especially Makish and the Maquis field. Why? Because this agreement provides that the first line of the subway will go from the direction of Makish, across the city center to Miriev. This will contribute to more domestic and foreign investors investing in Makish, and it will eventually become one of the most luxurious parts of Belgrade, as it will allow for the development and economic activity of Makish, new schools and kindergartens will be opened, and it will be an additional project for Belgrade that will very successfully show up. This is exactly how, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia are managed by one republican budget, and let's just remember how, let's say, Dragan Gilas did it and how members of his political tycoon regime did it. Just imagine if a SNS official had made 619m euros or if his brother had more than 30 properties in Belgrade's strict center at the most luxurious locations, imagine what kind of media hack and harangu would have gone through, what kind of warm rabbit would have made the income in this way, but since that's Mr. Dragan Gilas, nothing, is it? That's why I'm calling on the control authorities, the competent authorities, to deal with this topic. His brother Gojko Gilas has more than 30 properties in Belgrade's strict centre, and he is not known in business circles, in business circles, no one knows him. Then how do you explain all this wealth, that he, through his companies, has so much property through his brother's companies, which can be measured in hectares? When we talk about some concrete projects, works, or works of Gilas, Mr. Dragan, you have an example of the bridge on Ada. How is it possible that an engineering, construction-like bridge in France, which is a little larger, costs three times less? How is that possible? That's something wrong, isn't it? It was the budget of Serbian citizens, or citizens of Belgrade. We have now learned that a consulting agency advised him, first we talked about the amount of 2.5 million, and now we have learned that he has paid eight million euros to the consulting agency to advise him to carry out this magnificent project, which he contributed most to, or contributed to his budget. I ask the authorities - how is that possible? Mr. Gilas Dragan, while mayor of Belgrade, built containers that could not be emptied on Vratsar, Old Town, in the very centre of Belgrade. These containers are so badly placed that when it rains, the malts are affected by any flood. While he was mayor, he made that terrible decision, an infancy decision on a study on high facilities in Belgrade, and for four years Belgrade's development was blocked. Imagine that you are preventing in your capital, metropolis like Belgrade, building skyscrapers, skyscrapers. Why did it bother you? Either you weren't able to understand the importance of such large, large investments or you were simply maligned and evil enough to prevent the development of Belgrade. I don't know what the explanation is. When we talk about the media, so the media owned by Solak Dragan and Gilas Dragan and their associates, they, as we know, pay taxes in Luxembourg, re-emitting the program here. What does that look like? What kind of tax evac is that? The hypocritical Gilas Dragan was the first to import a realistic programme into Serbia through his "Emotion" production house, and today, when he is not in power, he criticises all these reality programmes. Mr. Gilas, you're the first to start an era of reality in Serbia, and citizens need to know that. Mr. Gilas Dragan presents himself as some liberal, democratic, enlightened European politician, has some kind of Freedom and Justice Party, I think that's what this irrelevant party is called, but I must stress that these members of his party and members of his entire political Camaril, various, for example Srdjan Nogo and so some of his Alexiciqi, as they are already called, are irrelevant, criticise our results, and, darkestly, members of the regime's Camaril, some of them, beat women, burn books in downtown Belgrade, it's pure fascism, I will remind you, threaten journalists. What does that look like? Most of all, they constantly attack President Alexander Vukic and his family and threaten them. The D.A.'s office isn't responding. We remember Srdjan Nog threatening President Alexander Vukic and his family on a live show, threatening the young children of Alexander Vukic. Shame! No one reacted. The criminal code, Article 138, has defined the crime of jeopardising security and the word "hazard" is referred to in paragraph 1. of that law. So you're threatening someone and no one's responding. Is that possible? Why didn't this Mr. Gilas Dragan stand in defense of President Alexander Vukic and his family, since he was some kind of enlightened, liberal politician? Why didn't he say - aman, people, stop it, we must be one European society? What did that look like? That's why he, fortunately, will never come to power again, because the people in Serbia, those honest hosts, recognized this Dragan Gilas and his political associates, the former yellow tycoon camel. They recognize them and they will never come to power again. The only thing left for Gilasu Dragan and his friends is to tweet, write various comments on social networks and cry bitterly in front of their monitors, knowing that they will never come to power again, knowing that they are exclusively former politicians, I stress, former tycoon politicians. The MPs of the group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in the voting day will support the proposed Budget Act and accompanying acts, as this is the way to a stronger, even more modern Serbia. Long live Serbia! Long live Alexander Wolf!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1489	Thank you. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was filed by the Government. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted an amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1490	Dear colleagues and colleagues, on this day, it seems to me 60 years ago, our famous writer, writer Ivo Andric, received the Nobel Prize. I've had the honor and pleasure of reading a lot of his works, but somehow there was always a saying in my head where he says - there's a fool in every country, but it looks like there's a central center. When I hear that individuals or groups on social networks, through the media, in the public, are saying such nasty things about someone's family, someone's life, someone's children, that's really the bottom of it. And what Andric would say, so that I do not repeat that word, I will say in the language of the people – only people who are not in the winkle can do so. I hope that Serbia will have the strength to calculate with such people and bring them to a place where they should meet. In these difficult times that we call times of crisis, we have to have so-called times of crisis. crisis management, because that's what these times of crisis require. We need to have professional, strong and bold people who know how to spot and solve incoming problems. The creation and implementation of the budget is a very important obligation of crisis management, as their task in these times is how to provide and how to spend funds, financially, normally, and that the system or the country works in line with the objectives set. With us, the government has taken over, and now our crisis management is actually the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In my view, there are many challenges before the government and many difficult times and difficult decisions, but I think the government should pay particular attention to four areas of its operation. The first, and most important to me, is education and education. The second is health care. Third – culture. In the end, the protection of the human environment. Some call it ecology or something, I'll try to speak Serbian. I don't want to talk for too long, but I'm just gonna say that I feel bad that there aren't any competent ministers around here, so I can trade with them for a word. We've been out of our education system for a long time. We urgently need to restore education to all spheres of human life, from family to nursing homes. We've had to raise children since we were kids to be honest, honest, to love, to appreciate and respect their country. In order for us to do that, we have to, but this is very important, the Bookshop to make him do the job he was created for. I mean, we can't let the textbooks that our kids at school teach and educate themselves with, I'm not going to name those companies, it's going to be a job where corruption decides what our kids are going to learn. Under the emergency school of textbooks, this job has to go back to its wing and behave the way it was before. In these times, I think it would be wise for the Ministry of Education to solve the problem of old students once. That I think can simply and simply get rid of, to allow these kids and people to finish college as long as they want, let them study for 200 years, that we don't have constant pressure from them. Here, and this summer, this fall, there were a lot of these Bolognans who spoke to me, and I trust other colleagues, where they're asking to be allowed this much more, so much more time, etc. Another very important thing in the area of education is – we must enable all our citizens to have all available education. We must not follow Bologna and the pursuit of globalism, where we would be people of the lower order and where we would be just some ordinary education available to us, just to be a labour force. As far as the health system is concerned, this crown has shown us how important this system is and indeed the state has done a great deal and a lot of financial resources have been allocated to both improvement and working conditions and to the standard of living of these people. I don't want to talk much about it, first I'm not professional about it, and secondly, I just want to thank these people and once again, on behalf of all Serbian citizens, to tell them one big thing -- thank you. As far as culture is concerned, culture is the mirror of every country, including ours. She's a testimony to who we used to be, how we are now and who we're gonna be tomorrow. The countries that give up their cultures are the countries that disappear, which they don't have. We are a country that has very significant giants in its history. Just enough to mention Tesla, Pupina, Milankovic, Emperor Dusan, so I don't count any further. We are on our way to the Ottoman Empire on our way to Europe. And we must be proud to point that out and never forget it. As for the preservation of the environment, I really can't say any other way than to be ashamed of us. We have sinned greatly about the nature that gives us water, which gives us air, which gives us food, which gives us the opportunity to enjoy all the beauty that Serbia has and which gives us. Our obligation to generations that come and debt to the ancestors who gave us this nature of governance is to take care of it as the famous Indian chief of Seattle, who didn't even have a college, wasn't even educated, but he was a wise man, who said – both rock and fish and water and forests and all around us are our brothers and sisters, we have to live together and protect each other. I hope that in future times we will do much, much to make this environment of ours much better, to be healthy, and to allow us to live as God has drawn out. If Denmark could have destroyed these rabbits because they were infected with this virus, and then later to dig up the only buried animals so as not to pollute land and water, today-to-day food, we have to learn on such examples and so do we. I always try to speak briefly and clearly not to insult anyone, not to hurt anyone, and I keep in mind a few of those next sayings. One of them says: "Bear and say, "The other says, "Third times, cut once, and there is a paraphrased one that I always remember before I answer to speak, which says, "What is allowed of the ox is not a messenger of the people. So I try not to hurt anyone because I don't want to be ashamed of the generations that are coming today, because all of what we're saying today, these nice women, these girls, they're writing down and they're staying in the archives, somebody's gonna be here in 10-20 years to read it, and I wouldn't be happy to be ashamed of what I said, and I'd be even less glad to have someone else ashamed to apologize on my behalf. One of the very important things we have to pay attention to is the personnel. There's nothing without people. Someone's trying to create robots, to create automatic machines that will replace a man, etc., won't be able to do that, because they'll never be able to do anything without a man, and that man has to command the robot to turn that machine on so we have to take care of the personnel. If we keep track of the accounts, there'll be someone to inherit us, there'll be someone who can run this country today and tomorrow. I, for example, noticed here in the Assembly on two occasions one big problem where people were replaced, I think, for no reason. I can't guarantee it now, but some Dragoje Pavlovic was here in charge of finance, an exceptional financial expert, was replaced for what reason. Something similar is going on with this colleague Dara Kupusinac. I don't think we should do it like that, at least prepare people, because I can see that there are no people in that sector who are willing to do that job of hers. On the other hand, our country's top management at the moment represents the president of the country. In front of Serbia and ahead of it are difficult and bad times that are neither the first nor the last. Serbia is a country of brave, wise and honest people and it owes no one anything. She created everything with wisdom, effort, sweat, and the blood of her best daughters and sons. I would tell the president to surround himself with people who are brave, smart and honest, people who will watch over both the president and Serbia in times to come. Beware of flattery and snotty, for as Mesa Selimovic says, the snotters are for me the worst people in the world, the most harmful, the most corrupt, they support every authority, they are the authorities, they sow fear without mercy, no matter what, cold as ice, sharp as a knife, like dogs faithful to every country, as whores to every individual, the least people of all people, while there are no happiness in the world, because they will destroy everything that is true, human value. I hope that from these times of crisis and hard times that are coming, Serbia will be able to come out as a winner, and yet another saying about our great Serbian Prime Minister Nikola Pasic, the famous Baja, who said there is no salvation for us, we will not fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1491	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, given the circumstances in which the state and the rest of the world are today, I can say that it is one of the better in Europe and perhaps wider. I can say that the budget is balanced, that it has a divorce component, that it has a further growth in our economy, that it has a component of support for our health system that should continue to fight the pandemic in 2021, that it has a component of support for the economy, which should also survive and be maintained until the end of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the covids and that it has a deficit that guarantees the stability of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. Also, our budget also has that social component, which is an increase in pensions for our pensioners, which is primarily an increase in salaries for health workers, police members, members of the Ministry of Defence, as well as employees in the public administration. It seems to me that there are the biggest disputes about this particular piece of work about whether it should have been done, whether it seems at times like this and constantly trying to compare us with some countries that did not have former regimes led by Dragan Gilas. Of course, these citizens also have a significantly higher standard of living, so they can get through a much easier crisis than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can. The biggest criticisms of the Fiscal Council were directed in that direction. I can't agree with them that when they say it's best to invest in public works and that in this way we will encourage GDP growth, so in some final component and the growth of living standards, but I have to ask the question – how will our citizens, until that last component begins to happen, and that is usually on a long stick and lasts a few years, how and from what will they live? It seems to me that the Fiscal Council does not want to accept these circumstances and simply acts as a former regime and shows that they do not care about the citizens of Serbia at all, but about some numbers, while forgetting that each number stands at tens of thousands of lives and the fate of Serbian citizens. That's what they're up against. They do not need to be invested in the Ministry of the Interior to reduce the security of our citizens, the fight against organised crime, general crime, robbery, robbery, rape. That, according to the Fiscal Council, shouldn't be a problem in the state, let the citizens manage themselves as they know and can. We don't even need to invest in the Ministry of Defence, save our own inviolability of borders, but our freedom, because it seems to me that those who have sold their soul to the devil have long lost their freedom and do not even know that the price is, among other things, and that is why this budget was attacked, and of course nothing should surprise me when it comes from the kitchen of former Vice Governor of the National Bank, of my last name, Mr. Miloj Arsic, who is a very close associate of Dragan Gilas. This discussion, which is much like that discussion in the principle of the Republic of Serbia's budget, has given some kind of reaction to Gilas' portals. I don't mind, let them write, let them attack, let them do whatever they want, but I must say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and what they wrote – will the advances for anyone who disagrees with them ask for resignation, not true, if someone doesn't do their job properly, resign – and as long as the Serbian Parliament is a place where all the unwittings of Alexander Vukic and SNS will be attacked daily, is that why we pay the MPs? Where am I supposed to put my political attitude or my grade? Were they on the street like these around Ivandan doing, trying to set the congregation on fire? Is it in the ring? Am I supposed to keep my mouth shut about the crime of the former regime and Dragan Gilas and everything he's done? Then you'd be good at Gilas' portals and don't let God dare anyone say anything wrong, they'll attack him immediately, so everyone's scared of both judges and prosecutors. No one's allowed anything to Dragan Gilas. He's a little wrong. We in the National Assembly will talk about the size of the thief and what his ideology is and which he worships the gods and what it is in his foundation. I wasn't afraid of Dragan Gilas when he was in power. I wasn't afraid of Dragan Gilas and the former regime when I was attacked in the Liberation Square in the centre of Pogorets at a press conference I held. Five cameras were taken, no one was allowed to publish. Is that a dictatorship? Can you imagine if it's possible today? No, and because they have no support in the people, they want to present some dictatorship. They want us messengers to shut up, too. They call us - a congregation dump to silence us. I guess cameramen, cameramen, what do they call themselves, RTS color editors, people who participate in the transfer of Dragan Gilas when some MP shows a document that burdens Dragan Gilas and proves his guilt that it is increased and seen on the screen, and then they talk about some dictatorship, and they ask us, is that why we pay the MPs? Yes, that's why we pay the MPs to make their political assessments, their political views, to defend Serbian citizens from tycoons and thieves like Gilas. And he did, he misused the position -- several million euros have disappeared from Serbia, went to Greece, probably in Gilas's pocket for, watch out, consulting services when building a bridge on Ada. You can't talk about it anymore, except here, of course, at the National Assembly. Well, we'll talk and she can sue as much as she likes, we're not afraid of him even though he calls us a congregation dump and when you see his bot write something, you see what kind of ideology you see. It's true, everyone smart and educated works for Dragan Gilas. So, we're stupid, illiterate, dishonest, unsuitable. For a long time in our society, as a completely legitimate goal of political struggle, which I see only Dragan Djilas and the team working around him and perhaps even that unfortunate Bosko Obradovic, one story is that the cultural elite should rule in Serbia and that they are representatives of the cultural elite, that all other citizens of the second order, the lower race, are less valuable, and so is that academic Teodorovic. That's what they keep trying to show one, any of Gilas' opponents, like, say, a man with no teeth, who's unshaved, who's dirty, who's torn, and that's what Djordje Vukadinovic does. We read his articles here, and they were educated and smart, washed, educated and worth more. Every man is worth the same, regardless of his professional equipment. His life is exactly the same, his fate is exactly the same, and maybe that someone doesn't have money doesn't mean that someone has money doesn't mean they're capable, because Dragan Gilas isn't capable, but a thief is nothing else. You see what ideologies we have in Serbia are trying to bring, burning books, no one can say they're not. They did. Were they trying to get around Ivandan into the National Assembly, not to take it, but to burn it? They did. Because they're trying to rule Serbia without citizens' support? They're trying. Because all the other citizens who aren't with him or don't think the same thing as those citizens in the second row? They did. Well, whose ideology is it? The Nazis came to power without a election, abolished parliament, called all other citizens of the second row, prevented freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, freedom of assembly, burned books, locked political unsettled people in concentration camps. So, is this Serbia's offer, Dragan Gilas? If he can't win the election, that's Serbia's offer. Let me tell you one more time, we're not afraid of them. We were not afraid of them while they were in power, neither now nor now, not only because we are brave, but because we are working in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this budget that we will vote in about an hour or two is also in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not in the interest of the hohstappler, the tycoon and the thief like Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1493	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Andriana Pupovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1494	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, members of the presidency, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, and in first place, respected citizens, it is an honor to welcome you at the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the people of the Borjana District, in my personal name and in the light that I was born in Boran, both in the name of Borcana and Borcana. Knowing that for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the most important is the Law on the Budgetary System, I am reporting under the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2021. I must express my satisfaction that just by finding a strategic partner and solving the problem of our leading company RTB Bor in the Republic of Serbia's budget, there is still more resources left to spill into what our citizens need most in 2021. This way, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, the company was saved and significant savings were achieved in the budget. The company's significance is seen in the fact that it directly and indirectly depends on the existence of believe or not, between 50,000 and 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with the company's co-operatives in the form of the procurement of repromation, storage, transport services. Individuals, not able or not wanting to understand the importance of the company's work and not thinking about the workers of the same employees, dared to challenge our president's work and efforts in a diabolical way. Well, gentlemen, and thanks to their comments, gentlemen, I must put under quotes we will not allow you to destroy what our generations have been guarding for years. I must remind you that in the days of the Democrats, seeing the state of RTB Bor was still at the time, the same ones who now advocate justice want to shut down the company. When RTB Bor's workers asked them what to do and how to support their families, they told them to plant peanuts and make leggings for tables. Since 2002, I've been following the words and deeds of Alexander Vukic. He was always a step ahead of everyone and precisely that reality, a good strategy and a great vision showed that his decisions were ultimately good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And those of you who are in the minority and who think otherwise, indeed forgive. I'm sorry he didn't allow the defamation and ridicule of his own production, the subjugation of national and economic interest, the humiliation of workers, the closure of mines, which he found the best strategic partner. The Republic of Serbia has retained the control package and will put a higher emphasis on solving environmental problems in Bor, which are part of both environmental projects and the regional project "Green Economy". Even as a result of the Kovid 19 pandemic, and based on an analysis of the international organisation of work, when 22 million people remain in the world without work, while 1.6 million workers are in danger of losing their jobs, the RTB Bor workers are protected. Jobs have been retained with a constant tendency to increase the number of employees. Just thanks to the president, the same Alexander Vukic you mention, one of the biggest copper mines in Europe is still working. Not only that, the fact is that a relatively small number of countries besides Serbia can be praised by positive market movements during the crisis. When I talk about the budget, I can't help but comment on the fact that in addition to the IMF, the World Bank, the European Commission, even the Fiscal Council praised and apostrophe of the fact that the comparisons for the sake of the Republic of Serbia for the preservation of jobs singled out about 2.5% of GDP, while the CIA's only 1.6% of GDP for this purpose. In addition to the measure of economy, various forms of tourism are represented in the Borska Management District. In addition to Lake Borsko, in the future it is also necessary to place an accent on the Lazarjev canyon, a protected natural well-being of the first category within which there are numerous speleological facilities, one of the most beautiful caves, the Evil Cave, as well as a system of smaller canyons. It is necessary in the surrounding villages to develop an era of rural tourism, especially in the village of Gornjane, which many visitors call small Switzerland in their beauty. Then, Pivnica, the Black Summit ski resort to invest in, if any, in other anthropogenic tourist values, such as cafes in a cave located in the interior of the country at 400 metres deep. Issuing certain funds from the budget, but also providing logistical support will allow for the unification of both industrial tourism and other forms of tourism. Traffic infrastructure will break, as there is potential for the needs of air traffic in the region at the Bora airport that can be used for tourism, sports recreational needs, as well as for small aircraft maintenance and school activities. In 2021, in addition to subsidies for air traffic undertakings, the start of investments in other small airports in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is also planned. It is also important to mention that there is a realisation of Serbia's digitalisation project, which will be financed within three years, in the draft budget law for 2021. What is important for eastern Serbia is that already at the right stage of the realization of the project, meaning already in 2021, cultural tourist ore of the fortress in the Danube, as well as the anthropogenic tourist resources of the Borski County archaeological site Lepenski Vir. President Aleksandar Vukic's idea of building a new highway "Vozd Karadjordje" will also allow for the accelerated development of tourism both in the forest and in eastern Serbia. In order to intensify the use of existing tourist offers in the Republic of Serbia and in 2021, funds were planned for the implementation of the 500 million dinar voucher project. I have to admit, I'm a person who believes more in actions than in words. And all of this I was talking about are the works of our President Alexander Vukic based primarily on facts that are easily verifiable, as well as that the time of the legislator group is Alexander Vukic, for what is most sacred to us, for our children still not enough to make any decisions, proposals, provisions that positively affect the lives of our citizens. So sometimes I wonder why people need to empty space and uninformed information about someone or about something that fills various conspiracy theories, destructive comments on social networks, various innuendos, but I'm also happy that in the elections we've shown that such people are really little. Finally, respected citizens, I would ask you to consider the saying of the famous William Durent, which is said – the future never happens to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1495	Thank you. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word is Nadia Beqiri.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1496	Dear citizens, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, given that today's agenda and the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 is one of the most important laws. The first thing I would ask the government, all citizens living in Serbia, to get acquainted with the current situation in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Three underdeveloped municipalities. Our position is clear that the government should change policy towards the Albanian minority. In previous sessions and in the exposé of the Prime Minister, it is clear that this government does not exist because of political parties that are part of the ruling coalition or because of political marketing. You said the government exists because of the citizens of Serbia, as well as because of the Albanian minority and other citizens living in these three municipalities. So I would ask the prime minister, ministers, not to differ in concrete results and to remove some of the funds by direct investment to the citizens of these three undeveloped municipalities, because we need new factories and new jobs. The reconstruction of the school is necessary, which is more than 40 years old and looks more like a refugee camp than an educational institution. It is the primary school of "Sami Frasieri" in Luciani, Bujanovac municipality. It is also necessary, given the situation with the pandemic of the coronal virus, to adapt the home of health in Bujanovac, especially the emergency department that has no basic working conditions. There's no equipment that's in a situation like this when we're fighting for the life of every citizen is inadmissible. I am taking this opportunity, at this important session, as an MP representing the citizens of the Bujanovac municipality, which has been an undeveloped municipality for decades and with a mixed population. Let me remind you that the transfers of local self-government have not been increased in years, and in 2020 the transfers were 392 million dinars, and I would ask you to increase that amount by 20% in the budget by 2021. For example, salaries have been increased, and only travel costs for secondary and primary education and other employees in these municipalities in Bujanovac are 60 million dinars per year. She would also ask the minister to allocate funds for professional practice from the budget, for personal assistants, because it is a question of the future of our children. The result of this lack is the mass departure of young people from our municipalities. The most important issue is unemployment because of the long-standing lack of recognition of diplomas, which makes it impossible for people to contribute to the society in which they live and benefit themselves. I hope, Minister, that you will help us solve this long-standing problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1497	Thank you. According to the amendment, also in front of the promoter, Mrs Selma Kucevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1498	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, dear ministers, bearing in mind that today there is one, for this country, a very important draft budget law for 2021, a bill that should in this crisis time for the world economy and the health system at least in some way mitigate the catastrophic consequences of the pandemic. Also, this bill should, as already announced, be developmental, then contain a number of capital investments. However, considering this bill from the side of the Bosniak and Albanian people, we unfortunately couldn't see it. So, as you know, we have already suggested several times that all ministries, within their respective responsibilities and in the area, consider the consequences of the pandemic of the coronary virus, and that they propose measures to remove them effectively. We also suggested that significant funds be allocated to municipalities and cities that also suffered the catastrophic consequences of this monster, but as we can see from the above is that the answers to the crisis in Sandzak were not found in this draft budget law. So, if we are talking about a health situation in this country, I must also mention that at the General Hospital in Novi Pazar, not only the citizens of Novi Pazar are currently being treated, but also the citizens of the neighbouring municipalities of Tutina, Raška, Sjenica, Ivanjica, Kraljeva, Leposavic and others. I think it is a truly devastating fact that this bill did not find a place for a project to build KC in Novi Pazar. Namely, your coalition partners have already stated that, in fact, the funds for this KC are defined, however, by studying this bill we couldn't find it, so I ask you to tell me if these funds are really defined and where they are because, as I said, we couldn't find it in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the improvement of the health system throughout the country is something that we here definitely all have to agree on today. In this regard, we have tried, therefore, to correct these shortcomings in this bill through this amendment, and therefore I call on all the Members present to support this amendment because there really is no room for any difference or division in these conditions. We are here today and we must support what is necessary for the citizens of this country, and make all of them available, therefore, that quality health system. In fact, as a parliamentary group that comes from the order of the Bosniak and Albanian peoples, we have therefore submitted an amendment to try to stop these tendencies of the ruling majority that the largest authorities of the minority peoples come together at the level of NGOs, as is actually in the budget line, the very name of the budget line. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about any NGOs, but about the Constitution and the law of the largest political and representative bodies of minority nations. These bodies, therefore, have, over the past period, allocated a significant part of the resources precisely to help the health system, and have therefore come out of their own work, which, of course, endangers their basic activities. The additional costs of these bodies were, in fact, required by the organisation as well as by monitoring the teaching at a distance, as well as by helping cultural, media institutions, but also by providing safeguards, as well as by fighting this virus itself. Therefore, taking into account all of this, the coordination of all national councils has adopted a common position, which is that these bodies need to be increased by 100%, which would be consistent not only with the rise of the number of national councils, but with growth and price, as well as with the tasks of these bodies. We therefore provided for these amendments to the economic classification 481 – the donation of NGOs – firstly renamed and added – the donation to national councils and NGOs, and increased the budget from 267 million to 534 million, as well as the increase of the budget from 358 million to 465 million to 30 % because of the needs that exist in this municipality, as well as the completion of the projects launched. I hope, therefore, that this Parliament will have the understanding of what I have spoken of, because this really is no luxury, because it is exclusively about the real needs of the population of this country in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1499	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1500	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, let me just take a brief look at the earlier presentation you've had the opportunity to hear. First of all, I want to inform you that when I told you two days ago that 20.7 million dinars will be set at the government's additional budget session for this year for the National Council of National Minorities. We fulfilled that promise, that decision was in the government, and I'm already expecting that money in the account of the minority ministry right after that and in the council, so you can use that money according to your needs. I'm just glad that promise I made to you that we were able to keep. As far as the requirements concerning this amendment are concerned, it is not easy to explain, but I will be completely direct to you, first of all, when you talk about transfers not being increased by some local self-government, and the Law on the financing of local self-government is very clear, defines the criteria on which the transfer is defined and the level of transfer. These criteria relate to the number of inhabitants, to the area, to the number of children, to the total number of primary education facilities, to secondary education, to the childcare system, etc. So these are objective criteria that the Law on the financing of local self-government defines and is not a subjective decision or a finance minister, nor anyone else, as well as how these transfers will grow. On the other hand, what is very important is that every local self-government bar I've been communicating with is along with the rebalance of the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget in April of the month, and the rebalancing of its budgets, the local budgets, precisely in view of the pandemic of the coronary virus, just given something that no one has counted on and as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has reduced 20% and more on average than 20% of its costs, so I expected that any other local self-government would do so precisely to save for the most basic things in order to overcome the negative consequences and consequences of Kovida 19. So I would expect that the Municipality of Bujanovac, Medvedja, Presevo or any other, such as Vranje, Leskovac, Novi Sad, Belgrade, etc. did. So there is also responsibility for local self-government units for their budgets. What happened this year, as happened in previous years and previous years, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia helped from the current budget reserve as much as it could. I said that last time, I can tell you again, so in 2018, from the current budget reserve, Bujanovac received 20 million dinars. Last year it was 10 million dinars. Bear also 20, 10, and this year 10. Presevo won 20 million dinars this year, not to speak Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin, etc. So, the responsibility and that is to refer to your comment, about the home of health in Bujanovac. So, I just spoke to my colleague and what happened this year, almost, and that is that the founding rights for home health have crossed from the Bujanovac municipality to the Serbian state. So, the supply of equipment and everything, it was the responsibility of local self-government. What they told me from the Ministry of Health that next year we are absolutely helping both personnel and equipment, given that the state of Serbia has assumed founding and ownership rights over the home of health in Bujanovac, and we will also help there. I'm told by my health ministry colleagues now that the funds have already been identified. But unfortunately, about ten, 15 years ago, I don't even know when it was, a decision was made to get home to health, founding rights, local self-government. I also had the opportunity to see it as mayor of Belgrade, so you have 17 homes of health, 16 plus one, and then you have to deal with both equipment and painting and all that is necessary for the financing of health homes, except for the staff, because it was the responsibility of the Republic. So just a few weeks and a few months ago, the home of health in Bujanovac and its functioning were both responsibility and local self-government. So everyone needs to take responsibility for what needs to be done. But, saying all of this, the help we've given over the current budget reserve and this year, the assistance that follows the home of health in Bujanovac, and I'm telling you here what the Ministry of Health has now confirmed, we have money and plans to increase staff and for additional equipment in the Bujanovac health home, but this had to happen now that the state of Serbia has taken over the founding role, or the role you want to say. When it comes to Novi Pazar, on the side of the 70th budget, you have a budget for the Public Investment Management Office, you have no decided projects, because these projects are adopted at the government's session after the adoption of the budget. What I told you yesterday or the day before yesterday, you have a billion and 200 million planned investments, given that technical documentation for a general hospital or health care home in Novi Pazar, whatever you call it, is currently being prepared. When the technical documentation is completed, then the design of everything that needs to be done and then we start to reconstruct the home of health or general hospital, whatever you call it, I'm sorry, I'm not really an expert in these medical or health terms, so it's moving there. I want to tell you that there is no discrimination, there is no problem in functioning, simply everyone has to take responsibility for some of their decisions, any local self-government, there is no difference between local self-government and that they behave responsibly, and the state will always help when it is necessary. And next year, as you know, we have a record budget for healthcare. There is also a Health House in Bujanovac. That's the most important thing. As for your public finances, the public finances of the community itself, as far as I'm concerned, here's Sasha next to me, we can make a special meeting, so let's see how you stand, what's the problem, where the problem is, let's see how we can help. That's what the Ministry of Finance does on a regular basis. He's sitting with local self-government, trying to solve if problems are or trying to advance the way they plan or anything to make that budget look right in the end and not to get into a situation, just before you said money for personal assistants. Let me tell you, I ran the city of Belgrade, it's an obligation of local self-government. The state can do anything, but then it's bad planning at the level of local self-government. If you don't have the money for it, what are the priorities? So, if they're not personal assistants' priorities. What are your priorities then? You have to answer that to the citizens of Bujanovac. Just before, one MP said my predecessor owed 400 million dinars for pregnant women. I immediately found a way to pay for it as mayor, and these were their priorities. We hired, I don't know how many dozen personal assistants, because it was the responsible social policy of the city of Belgrade, and that's why we didn't have any new year's packages, we sold all the vehicles in the city, I don't know what we were doing there to cut costs. So, I'm totally open to talking, so you can come to me and talk to whoever needs to talk about local self-government and how to run those public finances there. The state will always help. It helped 2018, 2019, 2020 with these transfers from the current budget reserve. Let me tell you, that's not the answer. You have to have a system-set budget to respond to the priorities of a local self-government, to the objectives that are defined, and then if the state can help there is to help. I think and I hope I've given at least a little answer to your question about the extra funds request. That's the point. The additional funds do not receive an amendment, and especially not on the burden of the current budget reserve, such as your proposal. The current budget reserve is for emergency situations, not God, some floods, fires, etc. Your proposal threatens the functioning of, in some ways, the budget next year, when it would be accepted. On the other hand, it doesn't solve the systemic operating problem if you have it locally. So, bigger transfers than the state to local self-government, we have clear criteria, on the other hand we need to earn, I guess, either with more employees or with better projects, investment in infrastructure and whatever. It's up to you. I apologize if I've taken a little bit more of your time, but having experience running a local self-government and this is the largest local self-government city in Belgrade, given my experience in the position of finance minister, this is not a good approach. It's not just the question that amendments require more money. Let's see what your local budget structure is, what's the problem if those personal assistants aren't the problem. Which, you know, you at the Department of Local Self-Government 460 million dinars have been defined in the 2021 budget for local self-government projects. Run for projects. Here, let it be a personal assistant project. Take advantage of the opportunity it uses, which is budgeted for next year. That proactiveity depends on you, in my opinion, not one amendment, and now we have more money. Look, someone we have to take away this money. These are connected courts. I can't do that. It's not responsible for me doing this to the current budget reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1501	I thank the minister. The word is Selma Kučević, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1502	Dear Minister, you have just said that there are some criteria for identifying these funds from the budget reserve to local self-government. I'm interested in what criteria did you use in the distribution of funds when the Tutin municipality received only 10 million, even smaller municipalities got twice as much? I also didn't get an answer to the question about the position of co-ordination for the duplication of funds. The third question – do you confirm that there are no defined funds for the Clinical Center in Novi Pazar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1503	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1504	Thank you. I'm not sure we understand each other. I was talking about the transfer criteria, not the current budget reserve. You mentioned the transfers. So 65% of the total amount of funds defined for the general transfer is divided by the number of inhabitants, 19.3% divided by the area of territory, 4.56% divided by the number of primary education departments, 1.14% divided by the number of basic education objects, 2% divided by the number of secondary education departments, 0.5% divided by the number of secondary education objects, 6% divided by the number of children covered by direct childcare, 1.5% by the number of childcare facilities. I'm talking about transfers from the Serbian state budget to local self-government. That's one thing. I read you these criteria. It's the Law on the financing of local self-government. The criteria exist for a longer period of time. Every local self-government, given these criteria, defines its development so that it gets more transfers from year to year, working on exactly what it needs to do to get more money in this formula. With regard to the current budget reserve, there is no formula, honourable MPs, so there are requirements for local self-government to be sent and concerning missing liquidity funds. Every single one of these funds, every penny that's wanted, has to be justified, and then the state sees at the end of the year how much money there is, if there's any need for local self-government to cover as much as it can. So none of the local self-government should count on that money, nobody's guaranteed that money. If there's a possibility that money or a piece of money someone gets something, someone gets nothing, it's transferred to local self-government accounts to cover some of the extraordinary circumstances that no one could count on during the year, and it happened. That's why it's serving the current budget reserve, to put out the fire if the fire happened there, and it's certainly not the current or the usual or normal funding. For a health care facility in Novi Pazar, you do not have a pool of billions and 200 because it is an estimated value of work. When the technical documentation is completed, given that it's on the project list, then you'll have the specified value of the works and then you're going into a tender for the procurement of contractors, designers, supervision, as already. So at this point, even the Public Investment Management Office doesn't know how much money it is, so we don't know what to define, but I've repeated it several times in this place, as soon as we finish the technical documentation, or KUJA when the technical documentation ends, the Public Investment Management Office, so that's when the money is defined in the budget, because it's on the list of the following institutions, health institutions that are to be done in the Republic of Serbia, and for the next year we already have 15.2 billion for those 22 objects that I've listed several times in the last three days. I hope I've answered your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1505	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nenad Mitrovica, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1506	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, reporting for the amendment, and I'm sorry that Mr. Shaip Kamberi is not today, or right now in the O.R., and I want to say that the position relating to infrastructure and economic development of 297 million dinars, where the proposer proposes that 30% of this amount be increased. What I'm saying anyway is that there are 80 million dinars in the budget for this year in the account of the co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, which are not spent until this moment. Of the 297 million dinars, 40 million dinars compete with the Co-ordination Body, the economy, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, and that money is not controversial. Why isn't he controversial? It is not disputed because all those interested in competing for this money must meet certain conditions based on the fulfilment of the conditions, i.e. the criteria exercise the right to money. What's the matter here? Of the 297 million, 257 million is intended for infrastructure and this is something that is controversial at this point, because this money is being transferred by the Co-ordination Body for the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities, certainly on the basis of projects proposed by local self-government. These projects are required by local self-governments to adopt in their local congregations and to deliver decisions to a co-ordination body that continues to transfer money. I wonder who, on behalf of Serbs, will propose infrastructure projects for Serb-based environments, given that Shaip Kamberi formed an all-Albanian majority in the Bujanovac municipality and 42% of Serbs said from local authorities on July 22nd this year. A month later, they also decide in Presevo and rule out Serbs from the Presevo local authorities, although local elections in Presevo were at the end of 2017 and local authorities formed in early 2018. Mr. Minister, I am asking you to find an opportunity to change the criteria for the transfer of money from the Coordination Body to local self-government and thus protect the interests of all citizens living in these municipalities. Shaip Kamberi mentions a residence passport, but does not mention a regular 2011 census, when the Albanian national minority boycotted the census. We're asking for a transfer of money from the state, and we don't have the number of residents on the ground. The national symbols mentioned, we have not heard whether the Albanian national minority submitted a request with an ideal solution to the Albanian national minority's national symbols to the ministry's resolution. The Albanian flag is not a symbol of the Albanian national minority in Serbia. The Albanian flag is the flag of a foreign state. The discrimination of Albania's national minority from Shaip Kamberi, which is engaged in the protection of human rights, has been heard since 2002. The presidents of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities are Albanians. Assembly presidents in Bujanovac and Presevo are Albanians. All the deputies, assistants and commissioners are Albanians. All directors of public enterprises and institutions are Albanians. Isn't this discrimination, gentlemen fellow MPs? In any case, I support the government's decision to reject this amendment. In Voting Day, as well as the parliamentary group I belong to, I will vote in favour of the 2021 draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1507	Thank you, Mr. Mitrovica. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1508	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected fellow MPs, I come from Mladenovac, the suburban municipality of Belgrade, and I would like to see a bigger budget with us. With a strong opportunity and this situation, our budget has been reduced. So that's what happens in all municipalities, but we have an understanding of this situation that has reached not only our country, but the world, so it's absolutely necessary under these circumstances. On 4.12 last year, I discussed the budget in a completely different way. There was talk of a place that we have on the "Ju Duing Business List", then progressing towards all international economic institutions, then talking about the surplus, but this time our priorities changed. The SNS goals remained the same, but it is, above all, one secure, modern, strong Serbia. However, the priority is now different. Now it's about the survival of the nation and now the most important thing is to save people's lives. We have an enemy who almost at the same time attacked the whole world, and we can only see with a microscope, so we can't be selfish and we have to respect the measures. Citizens of Serbia, I also want to tell you something, not to be gullible and not to fall for the lie of Dragan Gilas over his paid media, because he is using such a difficult situation to polarise Serbia. We Serbs are, in fact, in the genes that we're always sharing something. We share in partisans and Chetniks, stars and partisans, Europeans and Russians, etc., and the latest thing we share now is who we are to respect the measures against Kovida-19 and who thinks that Kovid-19 does not exist, then who wears masks and who doesn't, who is for vaccines and who isn't. Also, social networks have a lot of conspiracy theories and such a difficult time brings destabilisation in the country and panic as a kind of digital terrorism. When a man is at a certain age, he knows what he knows, knows what he doesn't know, what he can't, what he can't, and has a certain experience. Also, at this time the strength of the personality is on the test, not just our immunity. I remember waiting for rows for basic life supplies, when they were deficit products from baby equipment to construction products. I remember hyperinflation, then fuel shortages, even those tables a couple -- odd. Yet, of all I remember, the worst was the 1999 bombing, when my daughter was little, and so were many colleagues here, but I'm sure every single person knows what kind of googot his family went through. We were hurt by the victims, but we also suffered from injustice from the world that was then done to us, so again, I think we've bonded somehow and moved on. I'm sure you're wondering why I'm telling you all this. I'm saying don't forget, because we Serbs are known to have short memories. My colleagues spoke of Gilas, about Jeremic, about Obradovic, about Nog, and they should speak, because they do not give up their intention to gain power. He wants his golden coke back, for personal benefit, and to the end of Serbia's citizens, total madness and panic that has taken over Dragan Gilas and the company and the hatred that has now burst into flames and only because more and more of their affairs are being revealed now. Through the media and social networks, they're openly threatening Alexander Vukic and his family, but you know why? Because he's everything they're not and they hate everything that has anything to do with him and they hate all of us. Today everyone has televisions and smart phones and computers and can be exposed to attacks by those who don't run over from lies, spinning, various threats, fraud, often fake profiles, because they don't have the courage and it's cowardly. I'm saying this because Dragan Gilas not only through his paid media, newspapers and television, stolen money from Serbian citizens has virtually declared himself the leader of the opposition. If it weren't for those same media, no one would have thought of the crying Gilas, or the resistance to Jeremic, or the arrogant Obradovic and others. They're politically dead. They are kept alive only by a media breathing apparatus to display them as an opposition force and deceive Serbian citizens, and they should not have appeared in the elections. These young people would say in the jargon – the wolf blew them away. I remind you, Dragan Gilas was the 72nd mayor of Belgrade, on which he was five years old and his rule in Belgrade was marked by corruption, partocracy, theft from the city budget with numerous affairs. His election slogan at the time was "All Promises, I Guarantee. We know what he guarantees, that if he gets his hands on the authorities again, he'll do the same thing. Imagine what kind of appetites would we be if we could get our hands on the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Indeed, the government is domestically treating its citizens' money and Serbia has become the leader of the region from losers. Of course, we've been hit by the coronary virus for 10 months, and it's been rocking, not just us, but also the world, regional and European economies by 6 to 15%. Our forecasted economic growth is 6% in 2021. Also projected and large capital investments that will encourage the development of the private sector itself. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is primarily intended to preserve the lives of citizens, but is also developmental. You think it's easy to balance that budget? No, it's very difficult now, no one has any practice with it, this is the first time. We plan to recover faster from the more powerful and richer countries, and the biggest investments are certainly in health, in the economy, but we haven't forgotten the culture either. An increase in wages and pensions also boosts growth. For this reason, we expect to recover our economy faster through increased demand. What many have said, and yet again worth undermining, if we hadn't been in the surplus, we certainly wouldn't have been able to finance it, without our president's reputation in the world, could we have gotten drugs and equipment before more powerful and richer countries? We see a chance here. Also, in the end, I want to congratulate you on your heroic struggle, on your tireless work since the start of the pandemic outbreak, and that citizens haven't really felt any shortages and that everyone is being treated, whether someone has social security or not. I have full confidence in our president, in our prime minister, in our finance minister, in our NBS Governor to work honestly and responsibly and in the best interests of Serbian citizens. I am sorry that the world and Serbia have been hit by this nemaniac, because if it wasn't, I am sure that Serbia's rapid recovery would be studied in economic textbooks, as a bright example of reaching the region's leaders in such short time. We will not let them rob and destroy us, kidnap us hard, because there are many of us, who think with our heads and who see with our eyes how Serbia develops and grows. We love our country and be proud of it and guard our country, for it will protect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1509	Thank you. The word is Shaip Kamberi, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1510	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your answer, but our amendment for more funds in the Coordination Body is in line with one of the mini-programmes that our municipalities formed precisely with the President of the Coordination Body two years ago, and when we are asked to run for capital projects for three years in a row. Of course, I believe that the timely ministry was informed about it. As for the establishment of a special principle for the allocation of those funds requested by my colleague Mitrovic, I think you should have answered that the funds are divided by law, not by ethnic principle, because where will this lead us if the state goes that way? I see fellow Mitrovica is in the way of my speeches, but anyone who truly and sincerely wants European integration, that this country is an integral part of the EU would support every speech I make. Of course, they only bother those who are not sincere to European integration, whose European integration is only for the purpose of maintaining power. I believe that you had contacts with the President of the Coordination Body, i.e. with the Office of the Coordination Body, and they were in detail familiar with these projects that the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja had run for office two years ago to finance from that budget. Accordingly, our amendment for more funding is also submitted for such projects aimed at improving the living conditions of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1511	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1512	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if we've figured out the key messages a little bit when it comes to the amendment that's currently in place, which is on Article 18. First of all, it's about an amendment that's technically incorrect. This means that we should not even discuss this amendment, and it should be seen as a list of good wishes. When you put an amendment like this under a, b, v, g, d, then you don't want the amendment to be accepted. You're actually making a list of good wishes, and you're not making up this amendment to get the amendment through and to vote for it, but so that you can talk about it, so you can turn to your electoral body. So that's the point. This amendment is technically incorrect, not to say a more difficult word, I won't use it for days. It was used to send some of the messages that we here in parliament have been listening to from the moment of constitution to today. The first message, which is also called for by the Constitution, says the crisis in Sandzak. If you're referring to the Constitution, what's Sandzak? Is that defined by the Constitution? I mentioned it to the secretary earlier, and you still haven't given me an answer to the question. Mr. Odalovich, I'm speaking to you. I asked the president, and that's the Secretary's job -- did all the MPs of this House sign the oath? Does your nod mean they are? If they signed the oath, the content of that oath is that each of us must respect the Constitution and work in the best interests of the citizens. I don't know what the Constitution is, Sandzak. There's a Raski administrative district. Sandzak doesn't exist. The second message that was to be sent is to change your policy towards the Albanian minority. I repeat by not knowing what time and I will repeat it every time I hear it here in parliament, because it offends all other MPs of this Parliament, because it offends all Serbian citizens, and when I say Serbian citizens, I mean both Bosniaks and Albanians, Serbia does not discriminate against anyone. With this attitude and these statements and these findings, you discriminate against the representatives of your national minority in Serbia, not us. When you talk about discrimination, let me remind you. He just spoke to a colleague, I didn't remember his name and name, about the threat of minority and minority communities. Speaking from Bujanovac, a local government that threw out 42% of Serbs and sought a ministerial post with 0.5% of the vote. That's what the president of the state said. I trust him. That's 20,000 votes, about 20,000. So, you've been looking for a ministerial post with 0.5, and you've thrown 42% of Serbs out of local self-government and you're talking about the threat of minority communities. I repeat what I said at the beginning of today's session. In democratic Serbia, you may say such things, but you will always encounter the reaction of our MPs, because we are representatives of citizens, we are the voice of the people. Serbs cannot speak like this in any parliament, so you can then analyse whether the rights of national minorities in Serbia are at stake, and today when you are calling for an international day. It's not right for us. It was not correct even last Thursday when you tried to provoke this parliament in the celebration of the Albanian flag day, so you made two flags, so you thought the president would react, but not as he reacted, but otherwise, so that you would be the victim and thus present the incident. Since he did not react as you expected, but in a spirit of tolerance, in order to continue the democratic debate, you then went to Pristina, visited as head of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's parliamentary group to mark the day of Kosovo's security forces, and sent messages from Pristina that the cabinet of Ana Brnabic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia had lost weight. And that's only because we didn't allow you to provoke parliament and MPs with your gesture and your procedure. I don't mind the identity of the MPs who spoke a little bit, on the contrary, they're welcome here, but I have a hard fight against what they're saying. Because when they say that there is a Serbian flag running freely in Gracanica, then I ask you – and what flag do you expect to fly in Gracanica? When you talk about the budget, keep in mind, the minister said one thing – the budget of local self-government is poorly planned, so don't talk about the republican budget and you can't suggest to local self-government representatives that they plan well on the local budget. The home of health was the ingenuity of local self-government, and that's true. But another thing. Speaking of pandemics, we talked about this in the opening presentation, Serbia has singled out 700 billion dinars from the beginning of the pandemic to today, including new measures. That's 12.7% of GDP. Well, it is not only for those who are citizens of Serbia, but for all who live in Serbia, and there are Roma, Albanians and Bosniaks, all of them. When we talk about living standards and improving living standards and increasing wages and pensions, we are not increasing salaries and pensions to Serbs alone. When we talk about capital investment separation, 330 billion dinars, record capital investment separation, well, we're not just going to build a road infrastructure where only Serbs will travel. So you're welcome to democratic Serbia. This is a common state of all of us and no one discriminates against the rights of national minorities. If you want to talk in the right sense about the amendment and the essence of the amendment, then just give it formally and technically file it properly. Thank you. (Enis Imamovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1513	Thank you. By amendment... (Ennis Imamovic: Rules of Procedure, I will follow the amendment later. A, according to the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to give you my word on the amendment, to save time, but come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1514	President, you could've saved time all day, and I'm sorry you didn't do that, but now you're here. You have injured Article 104 in paragraph 2 – if the offensive terms refer to a parliamentary group or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President has the right to reply, i.e. in this case I am the deputy. So, a fellow previous speaker has honored us here that we are breaking the Constitution, so I would remind him that this Assembly here exists as a political body to, among other things, promote the Constitution. And if we can't talk about ways to improve the Constitution, then we and how rights are challenged. Therefore, Article 182(3) says new autonomous provinces can be established. And as for whether Sandzak exists, my colleague, I am here to prove that Sandzak exists and that he will exist. Ask your coalition partners from Sandzak if Sandzak exists or does not exist. And while we're here, Sandzak will exist. Sandzak existed at the Berlin Congress, it was determined exactly within an inch of what Sandzak territory is and you will not challenge anyone here, nor we, the right to fight to enter the Constitution of Serbia Sandzak as a constitutional category. (President: Just a little quieter. Let go, President, the tone is appropriate to the level of insults we have experienced here and the level of dispute we have experienced here, all on the world's Human Rights Day. Is this how Serbia marks World Human Rights Day? By making it impossible for minority MPs to fight to improve their system? To fight for what they have the right to do, for what does this Constitution give them the right?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1515	Mr. Imamovic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1516	It's not over, my time is just coming, President, slowly. You'll be looking at me here more.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1517	I don't know where you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Who does it refer to? Who hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Ennis Imamovic: Previous speaker.) But, in any case, I have no intention of holding any grudge against you, to run as a political topic. The way the Constitution changes is well known. We now have in the assembly procedure and has come from the government a proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, everyone has the right to express his political views, but everyone also has an obligation to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks clearly of a territorial organisation and in general of all other issues related to the Republic of Serbia, so I ask you to make this the Constitution. I'm not getting into the essence of what you're saying. I would ask the other MPs, we should bring the debate to an end. We've got 15 minutes as far as planned when the debate can begin in detail on the other points of the agenda, so I'm really asking that the interventions be brief and that we slowly bring the debate to an end. George, I think you quit. (Jorge Milicevic: Yes. Thank you. National MP Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1518	Thank you, Chairman. True, today is Human Rights Day. It is true that here in this honorable home arguments we can come to a compromise that is to the benefit of all who live in the state of Serbia and the truth is that we cannot contribute to any compromise, such as the truth that Sandzak exists, as is true that there is a Raška area, such as the truth that there is Serbia and that there is everything that we live for. At the same time, we are people who have more identities, so let's say at the same time we are both Novomarketer and Sandzakli, but also a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and that never has anyone here, at least for us in this home, been challenged in the way that we want to do it. On the other hand, it is very important that we heard from the minister today that many projects are always responsible for local self-government. This is exactly what we said in the previous days and another truth that yesterday we also had a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who, without any burdens, has repeatedly mentioned the word "Sandzak" with all that it means, but it is much more important for us than that pulsism to see how we will live as citizens of Novi Pazar, as citizens of Sandzak and as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's very important for us to get as much funding from the Republic budget as possible, but it's also important that this budget be spent on purpose, not to be wasted as we had cases in previous years and as we had cases, for example, in previous years, that construction of some of the capital projects depended on whether local self-government did their part of the job or didn't do their part of the job. So we waited a few years for the Tutina municipal administration to produce project and other documentation so that those funds that had been allocated by budget and then loans would be spent purposely on rebuilding the road of Novi Pazar and Tutin. So we don't want to amnesty anyone, there's not enough resources. We need a lot more money, we need a factory, we need an investment, but we need it to control all that money, so we don't have any corrupt stores as the 30-year government is marked in the middle of Novopazar Sandzak, both in Pazar and Tutina and in Sjenica. That is why only constructively, therefore, only in a thorough, reasoned way, we can come up with the things that are most important to the citizens, and they are the most important peace, and peace is achieved through economic consolidation, through that we as citizens of Sandzak, regardless of whether we are Muslims, religiously or Orthodox, whether we are Bosniaks, whether we are Serbs, whether we are Albanians, whether we have enough resources to feed ourselves and our families, that we have clean air, that we have quality health and that health is available to all. This is the essence of the policy fought by the Justice and Reconciliation Party, such as the essence of our policy to fight for Sandzak, but within the framework that it does not endanger the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Montenegro, but that it is both for the mutual benefit of one and the other countries, and of course, provided that it satisfys all the inhabitants of Sandzak and Bosniaks and Serbs, both Montenegrins and all others. And it's high time to stop the manipulative, populist nationalist without cover using any concepts, but to turn to what's real politics together, and real policy is that we all need a lot more, that we all have to do a lot more, but that it's a prerequisite for all of this to start with a final crime deal, with corruption, and from the level of local communities, and then at all levels, because as long as we're hostages of our own local communities in terms of use and what the budget has, we're going to have an unsatisfactory population, departure personnel, we're not going to be able and what we have the resources to use in the way that we're supposed to be enjoying all these resources and all of what our countries and our local communities and our regions are giving us happy and happy. That is why it is also important for this government to deal with crime, but it is more important to reach all the pores, all the capillaries and local communities and local communities because corruption is widespread at these levels. You know, the river flows and it's unstoppable, but if we don't cut that dirt that comes from those streams, then it's all going to pour into a river that's hundreds of feet wide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1519	MP Samir Tandir. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1520	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected ministers, for the truth, since some predecessors said that municipalities in Sandzak were neglected by this budget, of course I would like each to receive a billion dinars, and so, of course, everyone would want for their place, but I want to point out what we will vote for this budget. Because this budget provides 10.5 billion for the continuation of the Požega highway – Preljina, which will benefit all citizens and citizens, especially from Sandzak. It also envisions financing the reconstruction of the Master's Road Novi Pazar – Tutin, predicting the construction of the pipeline towards Novi Pazar and Tutin. Doesn't that deserve to be supported? Isn't that the only reason this project doesn't deserve us to vote here? The local self-government of the Prepolje municipality will receive 443 million dinars from the budget, Sjenica 415 million, Prvoj 294 million, Nova Varosh over 100 million. Those are really serious numbers. Would I like it to be more? Of course I would. Is that possible now? I don't think so. We'll fight through the rebalancing, we'll fight through the budget reserves. As far as national councils are concerned, the existence of national councils is evidence of the rule of law, democracy and politics towards national communities. Do they need more money? Of course you should. Every institution in the Republic of Serbia to ask if they needed a bigger budget would surely say they needed a bigger budget. However, what is a problem in working specifically on the Bosniak National Council is transparency in work. Why aren't the National Council meetings public? If we have a situation that this parliament is public, that it is transferred by the Public Service, we have a situation that local parliaments are being transferred, why are they not transferred directly to the Bosniak National Council session? I want to ask one question - what would happen if the ruling majority voted here to have the opposition's leader taken away from office, what happened at the Bosniak National Council? Was that done by law? Well, the law is bad, and it needs to be changed. Out of all the above-mentioned MPs coming from the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we who come from Sandzak will vote for this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1521	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1522	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I have listened to the previous speakers and cannot agree on this amendment that they have submitted that minority rights have been violated in Serbia. First, if rights were violated, such as the violated rights of Serbs to KiM would not have come to the agenda of this amendment. It is their right to seek, and the opportunities this budget has and the minister is there to answer whether or not they can realise their amendment. Furthermore, because of talks like this that the rights of national minorities in Serbia are at stake, Serbia has been having a problem entering the EU for years. The rights of national minorities are in language, culture, education and these rights are not compromised. There is no one's right or the right of national minorities to call the territory that is under the Law of the Raška region that is the cross that is Sandzak. I'm sure a large number of Bosniaks in cities where they live, both in Novi Pazar and in other cities don't think so. These people are full of political disputes and publicity that someone wants to have, where now they're going to say that we MPs are guilty of not knowing what they're not allowed to do, etc. I also don't know what right it is for a national minority representative to yell at all of us in one high tone. Why is that? Why? This Serbia and the state of the Republic of Serbia have invested a lot of money when it comes to the Raska area and in Novi Pazar. I know a lot of New Market businessmen and Novi Pazar was once the center of economy. So 95% of the owners of large companies want to work, to create because if you want to live in the Republic of Serbia, where you have all the rights you have to have, and it is an obligation to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I ask fellow MPs who belong to other national minorities, no one is jeopardizing their rights, even Serbia respects their holidays and all that the Bosniaks do when it comes to their faith. Congratulations on that holiday to a minimum of twenty Bosniaks living in Novi Pazar, and I congratulate them on them and they congratulate me on Christmas. It is past, gentlemen, that the time has passed for those who receive a small number of votes to use militant messages in parliament and to seek the help of the international community as to whether or not you have seen what they are doing to us in parliament. It is known because of their flag that Serbia's football team has dropped out and been punished by the seizure, I don't know how many were, points because they dropped a drone flag on the Serbian stadium. What message is that? And we Serbs and Serbia advocate that sport be someone who will reunite what's called broken bridges once where politics has done its part and that they have damage both and third, those that belong to some other national minorities. So I ask the gentlemen of the national minorities to respect the Constitution of this country. When it comes to their rights and what their, or what they need when it comes to finance, there is local self-government, it should help, because local self-government also helps national minorities, where they live and work, and the state of the Republic of Serbia has invested a lot in building that part of Serbia, the Raška area and we call it that. No one forbids them to speak, but they cannot speak in a way in parliament and bring us a flag in parliament, an Albanian flag, and that this is Serbia under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A Serbian flag can stand in parliament and respect what is the Constitution of this country. You see, they might have gotten wind in the back because she's a grandmother or a grandfather, Albright, is she a grandmother or a grandfather, what is it? Now, she's a great love of Hashim Thaci, they, were, were in an intimate love relationship or were in a love relationship in the sense that part of Serbian territory was kidnapped and they bombed Serbia to take our territory and bring terrorists to power, and that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1523	Mr. Markovic, don't insult Albert. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1524	I've got 15 minutes and a parliamentary time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1525	No, I didn't say that, but I said because of the words you used on Madeline Albright, don't be so...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1526	Mr. Dacic, as far as I know, we're all here for some love, but love of family, love of workplace, love of country, of state, and this is terrorist love. There is no such thing in the literature yet, and I respect all the MPs and this very grandmother, grandfather, as they now call herself, threatening Serbia -- you will no longer open any chapters, now you will see Grandma, Grandpa, come again, and I don't know those others who pressed the button to bomb Serbia. And why were we bombed? Now some who were high-ranking, as says in Dick Marty's book, who killed Serbs and who committed war crimes on KIM? I'm not saying the Serbs weren't the great victims at KIM, but who's the challenger of all this? Who's the challenger? Who first attacked barracks, police stations? Who expelled a large number of Serbs from KIM? Let me tell you something, in Pomoravska County, perhaps in the highest percentages of the KIM Serbs who were expelled live in Pomorava County. There is a village near Jagodina called Rakitovo, 93% of the citizens, or Serbs who were expelled from KIM, came to live there. Why? Because they were constantly threatened, they were constantly victims of Albanian terrorists, and precisely because of such behaviour, justice is slow, but it is also available in The Hague that killed Serbs and took over Serbian territory. Once again, let me tell my colleagues who belong to national minorities, we will always support them in what we believe to be their right, that small funds for what or this, etc., but these national councils, based on the number of people in Europe, have the most in Serbia. Most of all. They can't say that rights are in danger, etc. even Serbia supported the formation of these national councils. How can those other members of the national councils who received a large number of votes not complain? How can they not complain? You keep your mouth shut on the left hand side that says time. You came here to earn your salary and you're going to sit down, I'm going to talk to you for another two hours now. I didn't come for a salary. (President: I'd like to ask you now. How much longer do I have? Then I'll report back to you after the amendment, for the sake of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1527	Mr. Imamovic, did you answer on what basis? (Enis Imamovic: He mentioned me. I didn't hear. You know what, since Mr Markovic didn't mention you, or the MP's group, I can let you speak, since you have time, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1528	Thank you, Mr. President. As we will speak, what we will talk about will not be determined by any fellow Members of the people, but will determine our policy that has received support from citizens in the elections. So they won't determine any colleagues about whether or not we're going to talk, which tone we're going to talk about. I'm not going to say that my colleague Markovic was screaming, he was yelling at the microphone, maybe he wanted to confirm some of his arguments, but all he had to do first is read the Constitution. There are no areas in the Constitution as a territorial arrangement. Therefore, if someone is already calling for the Constitution, as I am calling for the Constitution, and says Article 182 paragraph 3 can establish new autonomous provinces, it is the right of MPs to fight in this home for these new autonomous provinces. Therefore, we will not be intimidated by an elevated tone or by a number that is on the opposite side, we will fight for our demands. As far as human and minority rights are concerned, they are not just education, language and letter and culture. Members of national minorities have their civil rights which are also challenged by many other laws. The existence of these national councils is precisely, if a colleague has read the amendment, I hope that, having discussed it, it is precisely the existence of these national councils being subject to the grant of NGOs, although these national councils are elected directly in the elections and bear direct electoral legitimacy. As for counterparts from the other political party, related to the withdrawal of their boss's mandate, their boss's mandate was not taken away by either the Bosniak council, or by a majority in the Bosniak council, their boss's term was taken from the law. We also voted against that law. We said that the National Minority Council Act is discriminatory, that it is not good and that it should listen to representatives of national minorities. What is it that needs to be corrected in that law? So, the amendment that we have submitted very clearly says that we have submitted the request since counterpart Markovic said that other national councils are not objecting and that other national councils are not asking for what we are looking for, if he has read the amendment and if he has listened to the explanation, he could hear that we in this amendment have passed on the request of 23 national councils that asked to be doubled funding for them in the next 2021. So this is a request from all national councils, not just one. Therefore, we have repeated several times and for the sake of the weight of this requirement, I will repeat, the 23 national councils elected in direct elections with legitimacy and legality represent almost a third of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And if you, on the Day of Human Rights, treat yourself in this way as requested by 23 national councils, as requested by one third of the citizens, then you should ask yourself about the state of democracy that this Parliament has brought into this House. We didn't bring him into this state. We, this situation, are in a state of balance. Our six sitting here makes a contrast. One thinks, which is that the minority must be served the opinion of the majority. We will never accept it, we will never make peace with the existing situation because we claim and we have evidence that the existing state leads our peoples and members of our national communities to leave and disappear from these areas. So, respect that we have decided to put a different opinion into this Parliament, with great respect we treat the different opinions that we have been listening to all day, even though we may have liked some of them and when we came to talk about our demands, we have heard and disputed the right to speak, challenge the right to think and represent the political views we have received in the elections. So if what you're saying is that it is, a democratic state, a democratic parliament, then get the strength to hear a different opinion even though you don't like it. We're not giving it up. We're not the same party, we're not going to ask you about the way we're going to expose and demand what our voters need. When we're the same game, and I hope we never will, then you'll be able to determine. Until then, as long as our parties exist, as long as our policy exists, we will fight for it, because for it we get support in the elections and thanks to it we take these seats in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1529	Are you done? You stopped, I don't know if it's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1530	I'm listening to what my colleagues are getting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1531	You don't talk to anyone in this room. Here, talk to me, I'd like to ask everyone to listen to more Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1532	I'm glad you showed a huge level of tolerance at the end of the discussion. We'll continue on with further requests. I don't think it makes any more sense to talk and repeat. I'll sit down when I'm out of time. It's my right to use the time of the parliamentary group, and I'll leave the boss the rest of his time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1533	You speak freely to Mr. Imamovic, there is no need to explain anything as you know it. It's freely everyone can express their opinion and I ask you one question, as I said, this has nothing to do with this amendment that we're talking about, now we're talking about territorial organization issues, other issues that have nothing to do with this amendment. So I would also like to ask all the MPs who have signed up for this hearing. When it comes to Jahja Fehratovic, Amir Tandir, they no longer have time. No conditions for replication have been met. Therefore, since we have agreed on the way we will continue to work, we continue to work. There are no further applications under this amendment, we have completed the search of all amendments. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Since we have moved on to a search in detail of the 3rd item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. You have received an amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr. Komlenski, are you picking up? (Jorge Komlenski: Hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1534	Thank you, Mr. President. You hurt Article 27 and you're still hurting him. I ask you to provide optimal, normal and safe working conditions in this room as much as possible. I will not engage in what my colleagues used to say, did they hurt Article 107, etc., but it is unacceptable for you to tolerate without any warning that colleagues of whom are constantly hearing for a month that Serbia does not care about the health of people in Novi Pazar in this room and endanger all health without wearing masks. Disrespecting Serbia's government, without you finding it appropriate to even warn and invite them, let alone apply appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-10-0.u1535	As you know, the issue of wearing a mask is not meant for the Rules of Procedure. So I don't know what we'd decide whether someone hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. I understand your position and therefore ask all MPs to respect the recommendations and decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Crisis Staff. In that sense, I ask you to respect all this and thank Mr. Komlensky. On the other hand, I'd like to open up, as I said, I've opened a search of the bill in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, December 10th, 2020, with a start at 18 hours and 35 minutes, as a day for voting on agenda items of the 6th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I want to thank Minister Mal and the Secretary of State. We'll keep hanging out with him practically since Tuesday with the next set of laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 185 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Point 1 – Proposal for a budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, with a proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2021; Proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2021; Proposal for a decision to give consent to the social security fund for 2021 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the National Employment Service for 2021. Before we move to a decision on the bill, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, in principle. I am stopping the vote: a total of 204, for – 193, against – four, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am stopping the vote: 205, for – six, against – nine, did not vote – 190. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. I remind you he's a member of 52. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 205, for – 199, the vote did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2021, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 205, for – 201, against – four. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021. Thanks for the applause. It's another confirmation that this is the most important law we've adopted in one year. That besides the Constitution, the most important law, since the Constitution is the basic law, is the most important law that regulates all that is necessary for the functioning of the state in the coming year. We now move to a decision on the proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations for 2021. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 202, for – 201, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Republic's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2021. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 201 for – 200, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to agree on the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2021. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the social security fund's financial plan for 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 200 in total, for – 200. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to give consent to the social security fund's financial plan for 2021. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 201 for – 201. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2021. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia's Budget. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search on the bill and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the final account by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on the bill, in general. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 201 for – 200, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 by majority of the votes of all MPs. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 201 for – 200, not voting – one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you he's a member of 12. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are warranted reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 201 for – 201. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Stopping vote: total – 201 for – 201. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search on the draft law, and before the transition to decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 201 for – 201. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Skistations of Serbia" under the Agreement on a long-term investment loan for the construction of the Brzeća gondola – Mali Karaman. Before we move on to a decision on the bill, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraph 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the public borrowing of most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Skistations of Serbia" under the Treaty on a long-term investment loan for the construction of the Brzece Gondola - Mali Karaman, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 201 for – 200, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". As we have already spoken many times today, according to Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are warranted reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 201 for – 201. I find that the National Assembly has decided unanimously that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade" under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Skistations of Serbia Belgrade" under the Treaty on Long-term Investment Credit for the Construction of the Brzece Gondola - Mali Karaman, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 201 for – 200, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic of PIO Fund for 2020. I'm putting the motion to vote, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 201 for – 199, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic of PIO Fund for 2020. The seventh item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises the electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPAS parliamentary group, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of 201, for -200. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Point 8 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 201, for-200, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Point 9. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 201, for -200, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by most of all the MPs. Point 10. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 201 for 200, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we've come to an end. Having finished the vote, I would just like to remind you once again that the next session of the National Assembly is scheduled for Tuesday, December 15, 2020, with a set of laws that will also defend Minister Sinisa Mali. Also, to invite you, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Aleksandra Tomic, is based on our intensities to make as much time as possible for the draft laws and for public hearings tomorrow Public hearing for the two draft laws that we will discuss next week, which are the proposal for a law on digital property and fiscalisation. I thank her for that, and I want it to become a practice in the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the National Assembly has conducted a review of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Thank you.
