ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1937	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished guests. Today we have three agenda points relating to an institution which is the Republic Commission for the Protection of Vendors in Public Procurement Procedures and a choice for President and a Member of the Commission. We had two weeks ago, if you remember, a debate on the Labour Report for the past year of this institution, and here we have cited all the results achieved when it comes to this Commission. According to Article 189. The law on public procurement puts the position of the 2nd President of the Commission and the member of the Commission on the protection of bidders in public procurement procedures to be chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, on the proposal of the competent committee, on the basis of the competition carried out. It was up to us to discuss the competition at the second session of the committee in due time, before the president's term of office expires, to ensure the legal trail, i.e. the continuity for the exercise of this function for the simple reason that the functioning of this Commission consists of nine members in three different councils who decide on all cases under a second degree appeal in public procurement procedures, when it comes to the protection of the rights of the tenderers. In order not to block the work of this Commission and this state body as a parliament, we were obliged to take over the post immediately after that to ensure the continuity and the election of the next, or the term of office of the President of the Commission, on 18 December, but we took all actions to elect a new president long before, so that at the second session of the Committee, we made a decision to launch this procedure on 28 October, and we immediately set up a working group of three MPs to review the complete documentation and to say whether the documents were submitted in accordance with the law. On October 30th, at the Assembly's site, as well as in the daily "Politika" newspaper, a competition was called. These are the conditions defined in Article 191(1). Public procurement law for the President and Article 3 for a member of the Commission for the Protection of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures. That's where they called the competition. The contest lasted 20 days. One candidate for the president and three candidates for one member of the Commission for the Protection of Offerers in Public Procurement Procedures reported. Our mission was to have a conversation with all candidates and after the Committee made a decision and to propose to the candidates today for this post. At the 12th session of the Committee, which was on December 10th, we had a conversation with the candidates. Since we've only considered one application for a candidate for the President of the Commission. That was Hanna Hukic. She's the President of the Commission so far. We've had opportunities to hear what these results are that have been achieved in general when we talk about her previous mandate. It should be said that, in accordance with all the legal requirements, complete documentation has been submitted, that it has been working in the Commission since 2013, and since 2015 it has been headed by this Commission. I'll remind you that in the last session until we passed a new Public Procurement Act, this commission was chosen on the basis of a test conducted by the Committee and I'll tell you that, since the president was elected under the old law, that Hannah laid down and reached a certain threshold of knowledge when it comes to this test at all. The testing was in line with the procedures prescribed by the Committee, where questions were raised immediately before the laying. What is most important to us, these are the results this Commission has achieved for all of this period. We have had the opportunity to hear about the previous year that even the European Commission has sent its experts from this area to carry out an analysis of the effects of the public procurement control system in Serbia, and especially for certain areas that call it sensitive, such as health care, such as working with specific categories, and that is what I think has qualified somewhere and has shown that the period of resolution by the items in this Commission has almost doubled. He's been out for over 50 days, and now he's on average 28 days solving cases. When we talk about the President who is running for President of the Commission, it is of great importance to us that no one else has reported to this contest. Because it's obviously common knowledge in this dam that someone who really gets a good lead on this Commission didn't want to come forward, so he doesn't have to compete with someone who really has good results behind him. Finally, the co-workers he is working with in this Commission have shown a high degree of professionalism, and when we talk about a proposal for members of the Commission, three candidates have come forward. I must say, we are all members of the Committee aware that they are very good. So far, a member has reportedly performed his duties and had a choice. This is Jasmina Milenkovic, who has also been in the Commission since 2014, who also in 2016, when she was first elected, passed the test we gave as a Committee. She was a reporter in over 1,200 cases. She took part in Chapter 5 for public procurement negotiations, she participated in the draft Public Procurement Act in the working group, which the ministry, together with the Commission, did. What you need to say is that it really showed a high degree of effectiveness at its work. When we talk about the other two candidates, they also come from the Commission's service. They are also engaged in this work, but we also told the Committee that given that the mandate of individual candidates is very often said, so not all are chosen at the same time, that it simply does not derail them to report to the competition next time, since very often candidates are also changed, because there are many. On the other hand, it is very important for us that this Commission works in its full capacity, when it comes to the selection of these members, because one Council has three members. If it is incomplete in its composition, then it is simply delayed in general that decision-making period, when it comes to subjects for the protection of bidders. So it is the proposal of the Committee for the Selection of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Offerers in Public Procurement Procedures when it comes to Committee Chairman Hana Hukic, and as regards member Jasmina Milenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1938	Okay. We haven't moved on to the authorities on behalf of the group yet, and now we're talking about the promoters. Here I think of Aleksandra Tomic, Vladimir Djukanovic and Aleksandar Pantic. Of course, I already told Tatjan Lagundzija, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors and Aleksandar Pantic, an election member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, in the order of the judges. Do either of you want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1939	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are here today on the agenda of staff solutions, i.e. a proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as well as a proposal for a decision to elect members of the State Council of Prosecutors, a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Supreme Council of the Court, a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court. In view of the fact that the President and the member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the mandate expires on 18 December 2020, the responsible Committee for Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, have established a proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and of a member of the Commission. Of course, it is the National Assembly that selects and resolves members of the Republic Commission. What can be seen about the very work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is that they have managed to improve the situation in these procedures and that we have made significant progress in this area in the previous period. This was especially evident in the 2020 circumstances. The Republic Commission has continued a positive trend in reducing decision-making deadlines in procedures and creating good conditions for more efficient public procurement. The Commission's task as an independent body in the coming period will be to create an even safer legal environment for all economic operators and an effective system of protection of public procurement rights, as well as to create a safe legal environment for the contracting authorities for more efficient conduct of the procedure. What is also necessary to point out is that in 2019, European Commission experts really assessed the work of this Republic Commission, especially in the health and construction sectors, that is, how they characterized vulnerable areas. It is in fact the best indication that this Commission is working effectively. The Serbian Progressive Party is working for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has resolved its rights and obligations in the public procurement process, as resolved in EU countries. The procedure is advanced, more visible, more transparent to all entities participating in the proceedings. Today, unlike the period until 2012, we live in a country where everyone before the law is equal, and not some are privileged. What is certainly one of the tasks of this commission and all of us is to completely eradicate corruption in public procurement procedures, legal protection and an effective legal mechanism so that bidders have confidence in the legal system and in the public procurement procedures system. It is also important to place a special accent on preventive action so as not to abuse discretionary powers and trade influence, as such abuses occurred precisely between 2000 and 2012, so that we do not come into a situation where individual politicians gain a wealth of more than half a billion euros in the account of Serbian citizens and to the detriment of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the ultimate goal is good law enforcement and protection of the state budget, and it is good that the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia has assessed the importance and role of the Republic Commission and that the Republic Commission has taken an active part in the draft budget law for 2021. Honorable MPs, an effective system of preventing abuse in public procurement procedures until 2012 almost didn't exist at all. It is precisely the SNS that has, since 2012, begun essentially building anti-corruption mechanisms in Serbia by regulating public procurement procedures. In 2012, we began to establish a serious state mechanism to fight corruption and the first law to be passed on the SNS initiative was the Law on Public Procurement. The new Law on Public Procurement, which was applied from 1 July 2020, has further improved the situation in this area and has harmonised domestic legislation with EU legislation with the aim of a clearer public procurement process, with a reduction of the administrative burden on economic operators and through the implementation of electronic communications in the spirit of a comprehensive digitalisation process in Serbia, making it easier for all to work in public procurement procedures, especially in the situation where we have faced the consequences of the caused Kovida 19 virus. Through the adoption and application of good laws, progress is being made in all areas of social life and certainly also in the area concerning the protection of rights in public procurement procedures. By 2012, we had the largest corruption in the country right through public procurement procedures and by former regime members, and they had just used public procurement to rob the state budget and to take money from citizens of Serbia. I think it would be good to remember what these proceedings looked like by 2012, first of all, so that citizens could draw conclusions about how those who managed this country from 2000 to 2012 did so and how they destroyed the country's economy. However, it is really difficult to detect all the malfeasances of former regime members in public procurement procedures, as public procurement between 2000 and 2012, as well as all their contracts, transactions, were secret, and state secrets were public. That's why we're here to tell the citizens the truth, so that the citizens of Serbia know who's pretending to take money out of the budget again. Mr. Dragan Gilas is a synonym and measuring unit for corruption in Serbia. A man whose entire political career has been covered by corrupt affairs that have helped him increase his income hundreds of times since he entered politics. No other politicians who are under his control and influence are lagging behind him. First of all, I think of Mark Bastic, former president of Stari Grad municipality, as one of the respected citizens of Serbia, whose best man has been kidnapped by an envelope of illegal construction rackets in Old Town. To them, therefore, politics is only a means of increasing personal wealth. In 2011, the late Verica Barac pointed out and proved systematic robberies in public procurement procedures and proved that almost every fourth dinar in public procurement procedures was poured into Dragan Gilas' pockets and into the Thai business structure of a political party then called the Democratic Party. Last year alone, about a billion euros in money from Serbian citizens went on the basis of the commission. We all remember that the former mayor of Belgrade, of course through public procurement, bought software that cost 10m euros. That software that was supposed to connect all the institutions in the city, of course, was never put into operation. They are doing so today, only with different methods, by stealing state secrets and selling these state secrets to Bulgarian journalists, to earn some money and to destroy Serbia's dedicated industry and Serbian businesses, and their ultimate goal is the state budget and its destruction. At the time of Dragan Gilas, while mayor of Belgrade, Belgrade won the most expensive bridge in Europe. The Adi Bridge was supposed to cost 116m euros in pre-account value, so it bought up as steel, and then it reached 161m euros, and eventually cost the Serbian citizens a total of 450m euros. No wonder it worked like that, because companies abroad paid 2.5m euros through one transaction, and those companies dealing with the sale of ships, and neither the City of Belgrade nor the state of Serbia at that time bought any ship, and those companies could have no part in construction operations related to the Ada bridge at all. We all remember an affair in the purchase of underground containers that cost citizens six million euros and that were never in office either. The project also damaged the state budget by 169m. The city's cleanliness director, as well as his associates, was detained. Furthermore, we have an affair for the reconstruction of Bulevara, where companies that have a month of business and a 500-euro capital win. That was not enough for them, but they continued with this practice after 2012, where they broke the law, which I said was the municipality of Stari Grad, and it happened through the political functioning of Marko Bastac. A classic example of abuse and suspicious acquisitions in the municipality was painted through the abuse of the property of the Sports Centre "Milan Gale Muskatirović", when the property of a swimming pool, which is not municipal property, was to be paid off for a loan of 50 million, which was due to be paid off. The money was spent on something else and Bastac apparently went through his boss. That, no doubt, continued to work on. They did so from 2016 to 2020, when they were able to pump almost 1.7m euros from the municipality to pay for their political activists, precisely those who stormed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in July and tried to bring violence to power. This best, respected citizens of Serbia, paints how they experience democracy, institutions, property and state resources of Serbia. Gentlemen, I wonder what we would do today with the money of Serbian citizens from the state budget, when former Gilas's director Branko Jankovic, the Belgrade Public Procurement Agency, steals banana creams at a gas station, what have security cameras recorded? Imagine what all security cameras failed to record by 2012. I can't even imagine what they would do with the budget money if they were in office and using their powers. The money the leader of the failed alliance took to himself resulted in 619m euros for only one politician. Imagine, respected citizens of Serbia, how much money and how much hospital could be built and equipment for that money, when we built two brand-new hospitals in Batajnica and Krusevec for 90m euros in just four months. That is why I call on Serbian citizens to see things realistically and not to forget those who have thrown Serbia on their knees and who now want to return to power with violence. We sincerely look forward to applying the Law of Origin of Politicians, because they will be able to examine how they acquired their wealth. We can talk a lot more about their affairs, but I want to tell them from this place, regardless of the constant attacks addressed to SNS MPs in the National Assembly, which is that because of the truth and because of the citizens of Serbia, we will always ask the question -- how did Mr. Dragan Gilas earn his first million dollars? In fact, Gilas insists that while he was in power, he did not increase his wealth, but that it was a fruit and a consequence of his management abilities and that it had absolutely nothing to do with the functions of state government and power. The best argument against his claims is the words of Dragan Gilas himself. During an early election assembly of DS 2012, he said – people made a lot of money by always finding a state-owned firm or a state-run budget to which people get hooked and making the biggest profit there. Or, according to his recent political ally, Vuk Jeremic, on February 18, 2013, when he was visiting the television "First", where he stressed that the business empire of Dragan Gilas has been growing since the moment he entered politics and that DS has been shrinking. He, therefore, claims to have earned money in the Czech Republic. However, the official institutions of the Czech state argue differently. According to them, by 2003 companies owned by Dragan Gilas had earned 80,000 euros, after which they were shut down due to non-transparent business, but since 2004, its wealth has been growing exponentially. In that part, co-operation with RTS and the release of advertising space on the television via its marketing agencies was crucial. So, Dragan Gilas didn't go into politics as a rich man, but one thing's for sure, at one point from politics as an enormously wealthy man comes out. Then, when the SNS implemented fiscal consolidation reforms, when we implemented economic reforms, when we provided a surplus in the budget four years in a row, then let's go back to politics and let's throw Serbia back on our knees and destroy Serbia economically and politically. Sam Dragan Gilas made contradictory statements about how much his political power affected his wealth. The honour insists that his private companies never co-operated with any state-owned company, however, he used to speak differently, so in a TV duel in 2005, on Pink TV with President Aleksandr Vukic, he said that there is, however, one state-owned company that he co-operates with, or on the "Polygraph", on October 3, 2005, where he confirmed and said, "Unfortunately, my companies of all the companies they co-operate with are only one state-owned, and everything else are private." It is therefore important to show the citizens of Serbia that the political action of those who were irresponsiblely exercising power from 2000 to 2012 and that they do not fall for the lies of second-Serbian false elite before the next elections. What are his management skills when he succeeded in borrowing the city of Belgrade in 2012 for a billion and 200m euros? Obviously none when it comes to the interest of the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade. It's really not a long time to explore all their corruption affairs, for example. in Šapac, in Paracino, but we'll just talk about it in the next period. As for today's topic on the election of a president and member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in the Public Procurement Process, and I will finish my presentation today, it is necessary that the Republic Commission performs as effective a part of the work as possible and will always have the support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think we're one of the few countries where this commission has absolute independence in work and where this commission for its work corresponds to no one else to the National Assembly. The fight against corruption will certainly continue. The laws of this country will apply to all politicians, tycoons and new rich people. As for the other points of the agenda relating to justice-related human resources, we all had the opportunity to see the disastrous consequences of the 2009 judicial reform. In the same way that members of the former regime conducted public procurement procedures, they also implemented reforms in the area of the judiciary, which cost the country 44m euros. As a result of such irresponsible action, everyone was at a loss, especially to citizens, who did not get better and more effective justice. In the end, citizens punished such actions in the elections. The Serbian Progressive Party continues reforms in all areas, and in the judiciary sector, for the benefit of Serbian citizens and we will continue to do so in the coming period. With regard to the human resources related to the judiciary, I challenge the election of Judge Bjelogrlic to the President of the Basic Court in Ivanjica and Zlatoj Antić as the President of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. As far as Serbian citizens are concerned, I am sure that they today believe the SNS in the work, order and responsibility that we show, to believe in the efforts and results that Aleksandar Vukic makes for the state and the people, because the end of this work, the effort and responsibility of the SNS team provide for higher salaries, higher pensions, new schools, new hospitals, new highways. In one word, where SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policies are located, there is happiness for the citizens of Serbia, and where the policy of those we keep reminding is and we will keep reminding them not to return to an even worse form, there is no happiness for the citizens of Serbia. Given the above, I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1940	Thank you. Let's move on, authorized representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups. Mr. Muamer Zukorlic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1941	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, through the experience of humanity, four institutions or categories that were the basis of the civilization of one society, one community, one nation, or one state. The community could have run out of different categories and structures, but the community that had a teacher, a community that had a priest, a community that had a doctor and a community who had a judge had the security of establishing stability, security and had a good basis for the development of individuals, families and society in general. After so many thousands of years of the development of human civilization, we can determine and realize that even now and so far, human civilization has not been able to invent something new on this matter, other than trying to maybe a religious aspect, or a priest, out of necessity, but not in all, but in certain ideological orientations. So the courtroom, the school, the temple and the hospital. These are four pillars of survival, progress and development of each community, or every society. Especially when times of crisis come. It is clear that in fact these four pillars confirm their necessity, that people are turning towards them. Today, we have, therefore, a judge, or judiciary as a central topic. Of course, prosecutors and prosecutors are an auxiliary mechanism, a very important but auxiliary mechanism of a judge or a court or judiciary or a system of justice at all. Man is a unique nature of violence that stems from his biological-animal nature or the dimension of Grampity, because man is made of three basic elements – a biological, spiritual and mental aspect. And certainly, the well-being in that individual or individuals depends on whether all three elements in man are well fed and whether they are balanced. It's equally important to feed man's matter, his body, his biology, but we also witness when he remains hungry his soul, he turns into an animal. We also witness that when a man’s mind is not enlightened by knowledge, he remains primitive and cannot serve his purpose for life, neither to individual nor to the social purpose of life. But what we find in a man's biological aspect is his kinship with an animal. There live all those lownesses of man, of greed, of lust, of the need to adopt others, of all that is called by sin in spiritual terminology, and of what is called violence and injustice. It's a real dimension of man. Even the best man has it in him. And we can never, from an individual or from a community, completely throw it out. So the intensity of injustice will always exist. But what should be the ambition of every orderly society is that the injustice that happens, whether individual or collective, it has its own ramp, its obstacle, that there is an institution where the one to whom the injustice has been done can be addressed, where it can correct that injustice. It's the meaning of the existence of justice, it's the meaning of the existence of principles and justice system. Therefore, all aspects of the crisis that exist in us, therefore, can be seen and, in some ways, treated, or treated with different aspects. But if we were to recover the justice and justice system, believe me, through half or more of the problems we would solve because we would have this dense sieve on which we would be begging our problems, on which we would be begging everything that is going on, actually produce various crises, and then we could have a certain solid foundation on which we would build a prosperous society and a prosperous community. In other words, everything that exists from monsters, from bad phenomena, was systematic, was individual, all of them stemming from some form of injustice, whether it's an individual's injustice to another individual, whether it's a group's injustice to an individual, whether it's an injustice of the system to an individual or an individual to the system. So all that's going on since the bad shows is some kind of injustice, or some kind of disrespect for justice. Therefore, the question of the judiciary, and within that, and what today is, among other things, our job, is the appointment of judges, or the appointment of staff in a particular court position, is one of the most difficult obligations of our MPs here. Believe me, I often have a conflict within myself that I simply accept just as we say -- here, that's a good one, someone said it was good. On the other hand, we don't even have the mechanisms to find out what he's like. On the third hand, procedures are bureaucratically very specific and we don't have a big opportunity right now. We MPs are somehow dressed up in the end, either to accept or to refuse. In order to accept it, we need to have arguments about it. To refuse, we need to have even stronger arguments about it, so that's a very delicate question. Of course, what I'm saying right now has no ambition to say no to this, we'll accept this. I will, of course, prefer to accept this time what the procedure has been planned, but I want to point out to myself and to all of us who are here to question the judiciary, and before that, the phenomenal question of justice cannot be just a procedural question. We need to focus more thoroughly on this issue. We need to understand that, if our ideal of justice, in the end, there is no absolute justice in this world, in this world is the best justice relative to justice, because everything a man judges is relatively and always has a certain lack of justice, but what is the highest degree that a human community can achieve in justice? The highest degree that the human community can achieve and achieve in justice is desire and desire to achieve justice and maximum effort to achieve justice, and then, of course, there will be certain failures. Now to get off this theoretical aspect of the field itself. Of course, my experience is related to a particular locality, to the space of New Pazar and Sandzak, and because I am one of those who do not want to talk about things they do not know, I do not want to make it easy to make accusations, to easily appreciate and say hard words, especially when they are negative, and certainly not commendable, but when it comes to the situation in Sandzak, or the New Market, the quality of justice can be measured individually, by analysing certain judges, by analysing certain courts, which should certainly be done. However, the best parameter of the quality of the judiciary is the security situation in one space. So, if we have, if we follow the security situation in a certain area for years, we will, by the quality of that condition, by the quality of security or, more specifically, by the reduced degree of injustice or by the existence of justice and injustice and by their relations, evaluate the quality of that judiciary. That's the best parameter. The others, I say, are individual and should be analysed so that we don't look at the good and bad judge equally. And that's also a big problem, because we even have in courts, where there's a lot of bad judges, too, good judges, and then there goes their voice that all the judges are bad there. It's another kind of injustice again, and that's why we don't have the right to either that kind of flatulence or that kind of surface. It is also important to point out among the bad groups who are good, as well as vice versa, to point out who is bad. But what they are are impertinent indicators, that if we have accumulated problems in terms of general security, in terms of the degree of injustice from drastic violence to some other forms of injustice, then we still need to understand that this space or the institutions of justice in that area must be made more meaningful. So I'm sorry as the man who comes from New Market that my city, my Sandzak and that part of this country most often sees or notices or exists only when it comes to incidents and problems. One shooting, another shooting, third shooting. So, to remind the public, New Pazar had more residents in the XV century than London. So this is historical data. So, the city that had more residents in the XV century than London and it represents one center, a cultural civilization center. It was a crossroads of historic roads, from Dubrovnik to the east, from the south to the north, north to the south, no matter what time we escaped the traffic, but that's potential. You know what all of this intertwines, from Serbia's non-deficiency, through the coronation of the king of the Bosnian company to the intertwination and cross-breeding and consummation, unfortunately, sometimes the collision of all many great cultures and civilizations. It actually says how important this space is. He's still important. He even when he's troubled, he's important, but now it's a question of our relationship whether we're going to treat one space as a crash area or as a meeting space. Whatever approach we make, that space isn't by itself. It's not about space, whether people crash or meet. No, space is space. It may be a geographical, geopolitical, geocultural, etc., but it's a question of people whether it's a neural point, whether it's a point of encounter or a point of collision. It's a question of our approach, whether we want it to be a point of collision or a point of encounter. Unfortunately, we have had the wrong approach to Sandzak himself for decades when it comes to politics. We had some kind of exclusion policy. It was thought that if the Serbs got something, they achieved their goal, that it had to be at the expense of the peers. If something is received by Bosniaks or accomplished, it must be done by Serbs. Politics either -- or they destroyed us, stopped us. They've eaten us for hundreds of years. We need to put an end to it, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are struggling to open a new page where we will send behind us a policy of politics or -- or, a policy of exclusion, because both spatial and cultural there are places for all who live, for Bosniaks, Serbs, Montenegrins, Albanians, Roma and all others. So the space is not narrow, geographical, or cultural. Traditionally, when we look at the relationship of ordinary people, it was never an exclusive space. It was never a place, either us or them, but on the contrary, both us and them. However, whenever some trendy policies were involved that the people wanted to use one or the other for their own banal party personal interests or goals. Then we had certain ignitions or certain negative tendencies. Therefore, if we open one such new site where we will have politics with each other and with each other just as it is a tradition of the Balkans in general, but essentially in cultural terms, not political and military. That's the tradition of Sandzak and Novi Pazar himself. However, in order for us to have the opportunity to apply such a policy we must have, first of all, security in my own cultural identity, because if I have such security, I have no problem sitting with another, talking to him, hanging out, exchanging my cultural treasures, and if I am insecure, then I am trying my own subjectivity and identity to build on the negation of another, on the elimination of another, on the distance of that other or possibly on the usurping of his goods. In this context, it is very important that we notify what is common between us. I have found in many attempts to do so that much more is common, than what we are different, although what makes us different is not at all deficient, but I consider something that God has given naturally, created people to nations and tribes, but gave them also to prove themselves to be competitions only by nobility and by humanity. So, what we are different, we need to respect each other and we need to help each other and we need to enable, above all, as a system of the state that everyone develops it within the framework of their own, spiritual, ethnic and all other beliefs and specificities, but what is common, and that is much more, and it concerns these real aspects of life, whether it's a system of justice, whether it's a system of education, whether it's a system of healing, whether it's infrastructure or an economy. Otherwise, when we have a hole in the road, that hole doesn't know if it's a Serbian wheel or a car or a Bosniak wheel or a car, it'll be broken. In this field, I have certain shifts and serious infrastructure announcements, and that's something we welcome anyway. What we're late for is investments, factories, and I've already talked about it, and I'm not going back to it. So, in the justice system, if criminals with the intention of liquidating someone, choose the space of police administration's plateaus, dear gentlemen, it's not a message, it's not a simple winding-up in broad daylight, so it's a message to the state, it's a message to the police -- we're safe, we can shoot in front of the police administration because either we're so strong that the police for us and the state are very weak, which in this case is not true, but we have someone in that police force who protects us, which is true. It should be a concern for all of us and, when it comes to this, we shouldn't have any party-political differences or intentions on that matter. Why? Because that criminal, who shot that day, hit the man who was his goal in order to liquidate him, and hit his wife, the innocent person, who was passing that moment by the sidewalk. Gentlemen, that woman could have been who. That bullet didn't ask if she was Bosniak or Serbian, that bullet didn't ask whose sister she was, whose mother she was, could have been anyone. So this is a subject that must not be second-rate in any way. I know we're going to process this all out, but we need to adopt these topics as strategic, raise them above party interest and move together to finally deal with crime and violence, not end them. No civilization has ever managed to put an end to crime, but crime has to go back to where it belongs, where language termologically is being treated -- underground, under a shah. In our case, crime was poured out like a feces from a shaht, and we have to do everything, all systems mechanisms, first of all, the judiciary, the prosecution, the police, to actually stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1942	Thank you, Vice President Zukorlic. We've got multiple reports in the system. At present, the representatives of the promoter have the advantage. First, before the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government, Committee President Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1943	I thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the VSS, the State Council of Prosecutors, may I welcome you. I'll talk a little more openly about this theme. It might cost me, maybe it won't, but whatever, because I think it's very important because it's got to change people's minds around here. We have imposed this awareness of Broz on ourselves, so we always have to listen to the authorities, and it pisses me off when I sometimes come forward like this, and usually political opponents, and so do many of us, as far as some colleagues are concerned, so they say – that's what you agreed with Vukica. I've never negotiated with the president of the party in my life, although I would always ask him once for an opinion, because I greatly respect him as a man who is the leader of this country, but people have to be independent and independent and think for themselves, and those who challenge you for thinking for themselves are the ones who have learned to get an opinion from someone, that someone is serving them and that they think so. Not even the judiciary is exempt from it. We have learned, unfortunately, as a people, through so many years that we always go with the hair of someone and I have to say, and I am convinced that the members of the VSS will agree and most judges - there is no political pressure on the judiciary in this country. That's a lie. That's an excuse. It doesn't exist. The greatest pressure on the judiciary comes from economic circles. It's the biggest pressure there is -- tycoons, various businessmen who think they can just get to the judge to solve their problem, etc., they put pressure on them. That'll tell you all the judges. Political pressure, if there is, perhaps at some level of local self-government, maybe some president of the municipality can call himself a judge, judge, etc., but I have to say I appreciate a lot of judges, here, as a lawyer in my practice. Since every lawyer, you'll agree, at the trial he looks at his client's interest and, of course, he'll always try something past the procedure to try to get his client in favor of him, but every judge when, as people say, they blow you away at the trial, I appreciate that judge, because he has a spine because he has an attitude, because he's completely independent and all the honor he has. I honestly have to say, ever since I became a member of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, there's no one who hasn't called me and for this judge, and for that one. The gossip, that's terrible. By setting each other up, it's creepy, and so is law practice. I guess people think you have political influence, so you can influence the judge. Guys, I don't do that, I'd rather kill myself than do that, and don't ever call me for that again. I don't want to do that. Those who dispute say – you will exercise political influence. No, they challenge you because they are such, they look at themselves in the mirror, they are the ones who exert political influence on the courts and set up courts according to the criteria how the municipal board delivers them to the candidacy, and they say, "This one is similar, he worked for our board, the campaign, door-to-door, let this one be the judge." Let's just remember how DS used to do it. I don't want to do it and tell all my colleagues and anyone – don't ever call me for any judge, I don't care. I'll listen to you from the court, but it's not my idea to listen to it, but I'll watch what kind of candidate he really is, so if he gets most of the VSS, like we got a bunch of judges here, and the president of the courts, let him be elected, but I won't do it. There's something called dignity. If the Constitution says that the judge is independent and independent, so be it. If he has the perseverance of the judge's office, and that's what the judges must have in their heads. The continuity of the judge's office is a very important matter. When you choose that judge, you can hardly ever change him again, or you can resolve him unless his working life expires or you catch him in a criminal act, but you usually see the dignity of the person you choose. That's why this is a very important thing. Unfortunately, our judiciary has hit the bottom, and it's precisely because of this kind of thinking between people and our public. Our judiciary is today convincing at the lowest level of trust, because people will always think, if you have a relationship, you can solve something for me. Let's not do that anymore. The judges are 90% honest, honest and honest. There's 1% that obviously disturbs everything, but we need to know from people, and these are people of blood and meat, living in this society in this environment. We don't have the right to treat them like they're leprosy, like they're not what they are or whenever we see a judge, so that's terrible. It's not their fault that sometimes there are bad laws in terms of procedural rules, etc., which drags on, unfortunately, trials. What are you gonna do? There's a procedural possibility that you might be doing this. That's why we're here to change such laws. I'm a big fan of a change of ZPP in a lot of things. For the CAP, I'm really a big fan of change. We want to fight organized crime. I agree. We have to fight organized crime, but then that prosecution really has to get to work. Let's just say, I'm a big supporter of that 48-hour police detention extension to 72 hours. I hope that it will be adopted once, because that one day also allows the prosecutor a lot, and the police to collect certain data, so whoever goes to 72 hours for police detention has three days to think about what he was doing, and not after 48 hours, usually gets released or, if that detention is determined, the question is how it is determined. We've had times of cases, and even for attempted murder, where after 10 days the judges for the previous trial say -- there's no indication that they'll repeat the act and release whoever had the attempted murder. It happened to people, and then what do people think – where is justice here? So that's what we have to change here in the Assembly and that judiciary can help us. What I always want to point out, the judiciary cannot be independent of the people. The fact that someone is now searching for and making terrible pressures for judges to choose for themselves. Guys, that's not normal. Of course, independence and independence must exist, but you cannot be separated from the people. What are we gonna have, a caste of ten people picking judges? So you'll be the richest in the country then because they'll decide who's gonna be your judge, and then the courts won't answer to anyone alive, and now we have that problem. I'm normally a major opponent of this election in the first term, it needs to be lifted, if the Constitution says you have permanent judicial functions, what kind of first term check when you're elected, then you're a judge and that's it. That I agree should be lifted. I hope that these constitutional changes will happen, but we cannot separate the courts from the people, that is, because when the court comes to judgment, it makes a verdict on behalf of the people, and the only link of the people with the state is this parliament here, because the people transfer their sovereignty to the MPs. It is impossible to be separated from the people and to say “we are completely independent now, independent. ” No, it's not independence and independence. You must have some connection with the people, even through this congregation. And that's why I'm a great opponent of having judges choose themselves entirely. This brings us to Sudocrat, which leads us to a complete separation of one branch of government in full, in order to express myself now, that's the state of the country, in a literal sense. And of course, on such a branch of government then many others will influence. Come on, let's not get carried away and get carried away, so now we're gonna be naive not to see how different embassies here are trying to influence our courts. Seminars are being organized, so suddenly some equipment of our courts, let's say USAID or something. Don't tell me they're doing this because they love our judiciary very much and they want to help, so we're not naive that much. Of course, I am influencing the court by these embassies to actually exercise the fundamental control of the state and if you had the absolute isolation of one branch of government from the state, then we will get that branch of government working for some other government, and that essentially for your country, because you will always have a terrible influence of a foreign factor on such a thing and it must somehow be prevented. After all, you asking us all this from the EU, the Venice Commission, I really respect all that, but forgive me, how is it in your countries? Is that right in your country? Well, don't make a "banana" state of Serbia. Serbia is an independent independent state. He respects European rules, but when it comes to you, then we can talk about something like that going on here. But since that doesn't apply to you and you'll never introduce it because you know what it's all about, then don't ask us to do that. All in all, we're meeting a good part of the chapter criteria today. We're picking eighty-something president of the court. Thank God the presidents of the courts are on duty. The High Council of the Judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, we find what the judges and prosecutors have chosen, which their representatives elect the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, I welcome. What I'm very concerned about, and now I really really have to react, when the High Council of the Judiciary was elected, one political party, which tells us otherwise that they are a terrible advocate of judicial independence, has made a statement that it is very pleased with the elections for the High Council of the Judiciary because it says the government can't influence it. Look, political party, I'm talking about the party "Freedom and Justice", Mr. Dragan Gilas. They made a statement, so who are you or aren't you satisfied with the election of the High Council of the Judiciary? What independence are you talking about, then, God's people? Well, what would you do if you were the government now that you're giving a statement as an opposition that you're satisfied with the election of members of the High Council of the Judiciary? Well, that's insane, that's for every conviction, so it's political pressure if we talk about political pressure. And instead of condemning the public, no, we do absolutely amazing things here. We have in these media glorging some two judges for which I really don't mind. I respect everyone, everyone has their own political stance, but if you're a judge go then be a judge, if you don't want to be a judge, start your own political party, go to the polls and win the votes you win, not to give the obstructive portals like "KRIK" to give as president of the High Court an interview, where you attack directly the republican public prosecutor. Well, who the hell are you doing that? Who are you to do this? Not to mention this Majiæ, I don't know, does this man ever write a verdict, what does he do, except do politics and I don't know, write books? My people, you're judges. You don't want to be judges? Leave this function, it will relieve you at your request, however you wish, go into politics, go to the elections. How many votes you get - drop down, be in parliament, whatever. You can't abuse a judge's office to make political statements from the judge's post. It's out of my mind. Then be angry if someone objectes to you and says "wait, you do politics and not your work" and then they say "it's a terrible pressure on the judiciary". No, there's no pressure on the judiciary. By doing this, you put pressure on the judiciary and such phenomena must once stand still. I beg the judges, all the judges, the people, you're independent, you're independent, you're doing your job honestly, honestly, not by the grandmother or by the uncles, prosecutors too. You're on your own, the difference between independence and independence is pretty big. So you're an independent organ, you work. Please, here comes the fight against organized crime, not by grandmother or uncles. You're arresting whoever you suspect may have been doing some kind of crime somewhere. Is that part of the government someone, is that your own father, whoever you're arresting? This country needs to see justice, because criminals can't be free and they can't run the state, but there must be some order here. Of course, in voting day, we'll support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1944	Thank you. Now the word has an election DVT member, Mrs. Tatjana Lagumdji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1945	The esteemed chairman of the National Assembly, the honourable MPs, the DVT as the author of the election of DVT members of the DVT of the DVT's office and deputy public prosecutors, following the direct elections held on 12 November of this year, and in the process provided for by the DVT Act, made a decision on the proposal of the DVT election members from the public prosecutors' office and the deputy public prosecutor's office, and proposed to the National Assembly to elect the following candidates. From the list of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, Branko Stamenkovic, deputy member of the republic's public prosecutor. From the list of appeals public prosecutors, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes Milan Tkalc, at the time of the adoption of the decision by the DVT appeals public prosecutor in Novi Sad. From senior public prosecutors Tanja Vukicevic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and from the main public prosecutors Boris Pavlovic, the public prosecutor in the Third OJT in Belgrade and Predrag Milovanovic, Deputy Public Prosecutor in the Second OJT in Belgrade. When it comes to public prosecutors from the territory of the autonomous province, DVT proposed Branislav Inic Jasarevic, deputy public prosecutor at the appeals public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. The biographies of all candidates are in your MP material. I would not read them on this occasion, but I would point out that these are career prosecutors, i.e. deputy public prosecutors, who enjoy the personal and professional reputation of the prosecutor's office, so we suggest that you support those candidates in the voting day and choose them as DVT members from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors. The 18th agenda also refers to the DVT, which suggests stopping our colleagues and that of Nermin Koskovc, the public prosecutor at the New Pazar General Prosecutor's Office, Stanislav Stankovic, in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Leban, Mihal Pakaj, the public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. All prosecutors have completed their working life, and for this reason we propose that their role as public prosecutor be stopped with the dates set out in the proposal for our decision. Of course, I am available to you on all matters related to the biographies of the proposed candidates for DVT members of the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1946	Thank you. The word has an election member of the High Council of Judges, Mr. Aleksandar Pantic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1947	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege and my duty to present to you the proposals of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and above all the motion for a decision on the selection of election members of the VSS from the order of the Judges, which was submitted by the High Council of Judges, the proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court, which was established at the session held on 16 December 2000. First, the proposal for a decision to elect VSS members is the result of elections for new VSS members, which took place on 7 December 2020. When proposing members of the VSS, those members, that is, those candidates who received the highest number of votes from their, I say, election units, from their VSS base. After the elections, there were no objections, no complaints either at the election process or on the results of the vote. The elections went quite regularly and the elections were watched by the OSCE Mission, the Society Judge, the Alumni Club, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Committee of Human Rights, the Justice Bases of the South, Nis, so that the elections were completely transparent and in the presence of observers. After the elections were held, the most votes on certain lists were given to these candidates who were the High Council of the Judiciary and proposed to the National Court of Justice, which are: Zorana Delibasic, the Supreme Court Judge, from the electoral list of Supreme Cassation Courts, the Court of Commerce and the Administrative Court of Justice; Marija Arangelović Juris, Judge of the Higher Court of Justice in Belgrade, the electoral list of senior courts and economic courts; Snezana Bjeloglic, the judge of the Basic Court in Ivanjic, from the list of basic courts, criminal courts, and the Criminal Court of Appeals; Jacques Pavlovic, Judge of the Third Fundamental Court of Justice in Belgrade, also from the list of basic courts, criminal courts and the Criminal Court of Appeal. It's the only list that gives two members to the VSS, which is logical, given the number of these courts, so basic and abusive and logical, they have two presidents in the VSS. Lastly, VSS's fifth proposal is Vukica Kužic, the court of appeals in Novi Sad, who is from the court's list of judges from the territory of autonomous provinces. These would be suggestions for new members of the VSS. You have your biographies in the material, the data on the proposed candidates, but you also have a complete graphic representation of the results after the elections. So you can see exactly how many candidates there have been for which election list, how many votes have been received, expressed both in the number of votes and percentages, so that you can clearly see in the material all the data and all the results of the voting after the election process, and I will not read to you and burden you with it. This would be the first proposal submitted by the VSS and refers to the selection of VSS members from the line of judges for the new VSS meeting. The second proposal submitted by the High Judicial Council refers to the proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court. Since we have two proposals for a decision to elect the president of the courts, this first proposal was set at a session held on 8 October 2019. So, this first proposal has long been established and it refers to an ad published by the High Council of the Judiciary in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia on 18/19, from 15 March 2019 and in the daily list "Politicals", since 19 March 2019. The ad announced the election of a president for 42 basic courts and 32 misdemeanor courts. In the meantime, given the passage of time, the retirement of a number of judges and other circumstances, the VSS withdrew four proposals for the presidents of the basic courts and two proposals for the presidents of the criminal courts, so that finally there was a proposal for a selection of 38 presidents of the basic courts and 30 presidents of the criminal courts, and these are exactly the proposals that are now before you and finally made. The formation and adoption of a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts preceded an election procedure, i.e. the procedure for proposing candidates regulated by the VSS Act, which is indeed based on objective criteria and gives sufficient assurance that the candidates who deserve it will indeed be proposed, i.e. that the candidate who achieved the best results in the proposal process will be proposed. During the proposal, the first VSS forms a commission to propose VSS candidates. The three parts consist of the Commission's work. First, the Commission shall obtain an evaluation of the work for each candidate and, moreover, by the Commission for the implementation of the procedure for the evaluation of the work and the determination of the assessment of the work of the judges and the president of the courts. So, first, you get an evaluation of his work for an observed period of three years. The work programme is then evaluated. Each of the candidates who applied for the President of the Court is obliged to submit a programme of work in which he will clearly explain the problems in that court that they are applying for to be president, the way he sees the possibility of solving these problems, then present his ideas to improve the work of the court. All of this should contain one candidate programme for the president of the court. This work programme is assessed by the Commission’s assessment of VSS from one to five. The Commission has three members. Every member of the commission gives his grade. The three estimates, divided by three, are then added to the average, i.e. the evaluation for the candidate's work programme, which has applied for the President of the Court. The Commission then held a conversation with all candidates for the presidents of the courts. All candidates have been asked the same questions, and on the basis of these questions, the Commission determines the motivation of the candidate to perform his duties, his organisational capacity, his ability to handle the court and one general impression that he would represent the court for which he is competing to be president. Also, talks with candidates for the presidents of the courts are also assessed in the same way as the work programme, and now we have an evaluation for the work programme, we have an evaluation with the talks, and the two grades are added together, divided by two, and an average rating is obtained. It's always rounding up. If it's 4.50 it's going to be 5, if it's 3,50 it's going to be 4. So we're always rounding up. By obtaining an assessment of his work as a candidate for the President of the Court and by assessing the talks with him, the Commission is completing its part of the work, drawing up a previous list of candidates containing the assessment of the work of the candidate for the President of the Court and the final assessment of the talks and the work programme, and this is being provided by the VSS. The High Council of the judiciary, in addition to having received from the Commission, is asking for the opinion of all the judges of the court that the candidate is applying for as president. So, this court where the candidate is competing to be president. The courts deliver their opinions based on the results of the general session vote, so all the judges of that court vote for candidates who applied for the court's post and the High Union of Justice gets the opinion of the session of all judges of the court. The High Council of the judiciary, when deciding on a candidate to be a High Council proposal, has great arguments and great elements that this decision is correct, correct and that indeed the best candidate is proposed. He has the opinion of fellow candidates who are proposed, has the view of colleagues on all candidates who have applied for the post of president of a particular court having a programme of work, evaluation of the work programme, evaluation of talks with that candidate and evaluation of his work by another commission involved in carrying out the evaluation procedure, so that the High Council of the Judiciary in such a situation has all the elements to make one correct and correct decision. Following this and such proceedings, the High Council of the Court of Justice, on the basis of Article 13(4) of the Law on the High Council of the Court of Justice at its session held on 8 October 2019, established a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court and proposed a selection of 68 candidates to the National Assembly. I'll just read the biographies of all the candidates proposed. I'll just read briefly what the candidates are and for which courts are proposed. Nebojsa Colić is the judge of the General Court in Aleksinac, proposed to the President of the Basic Court in Aleksinec; Goran Čimburović is the judge of the Basic Court in Vienna, proposed as the President of the Basic Court in Vienna, Marin Prvulović is the judge of the primary court in Bor, proposed for the President of the General Court in Bor, Renat Pavšković the judge of the Main Court in Velika Plana; Nenad Tadic is the judge of the Main Court in Velika Gradište, proposed for the President of the General Court of the Main Court in the Main Court in the City; Cveta Ivanovic Grubjesic is the judge of the Basic Court in Vršec; Nenadić is the judge of the General Court of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court in Vršec; Dusanić is the head of the President of the Supreme Court of Ljubljana in the Supreme Court of Ljubljana. I'm going to have to stop at Snow White's and give you an additional explanation. We have previously proposed to Snježana Bjelogrlic as an election member of the High Council of the judiciary. The candidate for an election member of the High Council of the Judiciary cannot be the president of the court, which means that the president of the court cannot even be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Since it is a proposal by the High Council of the Judiciary for an election member of the High Council of the Judiciary, it cannot be the President of the Court, it could not be the President of the Court, as the president of the Court cannot be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The law clearly states that he cannot be a candidate for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, so if he cannot be a candidate, he cannot be elected, or he cannot be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Proposed candidates for election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary take office on 5 April 2021. In any case, it cannot be the President of the Court and election member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and that you have that fact in mind when deciding on the candidate, Snezana Bjelogrlic, the judge of the General Court in Ivanjica, which was proposed for the President of the General Court in Ivanjica. So, at the time of this proposal, the election procedure for the election of election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has not begun, so it is a new circumstance that you will have in mind when deciding on the election of the President of the General Court in Ivanjica. If you would have elected her president, she would have had to resign before joining the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to resign as president. It is very soon, 5 April, election members of the High Council of the judiciary take office. I've just completed, explained and explained, just that you have in mind when deciding. The next proposal of the High Council of Justice is Natasa Ivetić, Judge of the Basic Court in Kikinda, who is proposed as President of the General Court in Kikinda; Mirjana Pavlovic Judge of the Basic Court in Knjaževec, is proposed for the President of the Basic Court in Knjaževec; Dragan Dimitrijevic is proposed for the President of the General Court in the Kingdom; Jelica Milanović Judge of the Basic Court in Kursumlia, is proposed for the President of the Basic Court in Kursumlija, proposed for the President of the Court of Justice of the Basic Court, Miodrag Janković for the President of the Basic Court of Justice in Leskovac, proposed for the President of the General Court in Leskovac, Milica Todorević for the Court in Loznica, is proposed for the President of the Basic Court in Lazar, Miod Janović for the President of the President of the President of the Basic Court of the Basic Court of the European Court of Justice of the President of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1948	Mr Pantic, I'm sorry to interrupt, just to remind you that everything you're reading right now, the MPs have in the material, so there's no need for us to go through it in detail. If you have any arguments that MPs need to hear, and they are not in the material that you delivered, I would ask that we proceed with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1949	All right, I didn't even mean biographies, just names to count.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1950	All names are delivered precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1951	It is true that they have MPs in the material of course of names, they have short biographies, so there is absolutely no need to quote them. All right, I'm agreed absolutely and I'm like, "Let's cut it short." So, according to this, we have 38 proposals for the presidents of the basic courts and 30 proposals for the presidents of the criminal courts. Finally, we have another proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, which is the proposal of the President of the Courts after the ad published by the High Council of the Judiciary in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 27/20" of 13 March 2020 and in the daily "Politics" of 17 March 2020 when the election of the president was announced for 17 courts. The procedure for establishing a proposal for candidates for these courts is the same as in the previous ad, it is formed, in this case a number of commissions are formed, as it is the courts of different levels. The same is all, so an evaluation of the work has been obtained, an assessment of the talks, an evaluation of the work programme, an opinion of the session of all judges proposed by the President-in-Office, and on this basis the High Council of the judiciary has proposed the selection of 17 presidents and of the 17 presidents of the courts, is one proposal for a candidate to elect the President of the Higher Court in Sremska Mitrovica. Biljana Martinovic Begovic, judge of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, was proposed. Then was proposed by the President of the Business Court in Nis, where Snezana Pantic, Judge of the Court of Commerce in Nis, was proposed for the president's election of ten other basic and five misdemeanor courts. So, according to this ad, the High Council of the Courts established at its session on 16 December 2020 a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court and proposed to elect 17 candidates to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose names are in your materials and the courts for which they are passed. That would be briefly all the proposals of the High Council of the Judiciary. We believe that the High Council of the Judiciary has indeed proposed the best candidates and we expect you to accept the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1952	I would like to thank the representatives of the proposer. We continue with the presentations of authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. In front of the SPDS parliamentary group, Sanja Jefic Brankovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1953	Thank you. Dear President, Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, in the framework of the motion for decisions we are discussing today, I would first mention the government's priorities for the very functioning of the judiciary as an independent branch of government. Namely, the development of the judiciary is one of the key strategic priorities of the Republic of Serbia and involves a lasting process of modernising and harmonising the judiciary with the needs of both state and society, and in order to ensure one rule of law and increase legal certainty, as well as in each other country and Serbia. The development of justice provides a consistent application of the principle of division of power in a democratic society in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The independent, impartial, responsible, professional and efficient judiciary is necessary for the functioning of every society, including ours, and therefore its modernisation through some creative normative solutions, which, above all, will be applicable, as well as the opening up to the public, is the only answer to the high degree of complexity and dynamic social relations of the modern world in which we are located. This also implies that judicial and judicial holders have adequate competences, knowledge and skills in order to ensure full application of the principle of legality and predictability in the exercise, while at the same time using modern methods of working through the application of information and communication technology, which are necessary for the effective, efficient and economic work of each judiciary. All of these aspects should lead to increased citizens' confidence in judicial institutions, to enable attracting and retaining foreign investment in the Republic of Serbia through understandable regulations that will be effectively applied, guaranteeing effective protection of their legitimate interests and ensuring legal certainty. Also, further improvement of the Serbian judiciary should be directed towards the adoption of the highest European standards while respecting the legal tradition of the Republic of Serbia. In the past 10 years, the Republic of Serbia has been going through a number of judicial reform processes. For example, changing and improving and implementing the normative framework in the field of justice, rationalising the network of courts in January 2014, and then taking measures to reduce the length of proceedings and reducing the total number of pending cases, especially those of old cases that have remained unsolved for many years, and then setting up alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, I must say that the mediation also has a good response, both by the parties and to resolving, or the ultimate outcome of the disputes themselves, as well as strengthening the availability of judicial institutions and great transparency in their work. I would like to remind you that since 1 January 2014, we have started applying a new network of courts that implies a new organisation of courts to courts of general and special jurisdiction and since then has been constantly working to improve and remove shortcomings within each of the courts of general or special jurisdiction. Today, among other things, there is a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the High Council of Judges, who has submitted the High Council of the judiciary. I will remind you that this High Council of the judiciary was established on 6 April 2009 and has 11 members. The aim of its existence is to create an independent and independent body that will ensure and guarantee independence and independence and judges, as well as courts. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the minister responsible for the judiciary, the chairman of the National Assembly's board of directors, as well as members by office, as well as eight election members elected by the National Assembly in accordance with the law. Electoral members include six judges with permanent judicial office, one from the AP territory and two prominent and prominent lawyers with at least 15 years of experience in the profession, one of which is a lawyer and the other is a professor of law school. When we talk about the VSS, I would like to mention the EU Project "For Serbia, Support VSS" funded by the EU and implemented by the German Society for International Co-operation and the Ministry of Justice. The project aimed to contribute to the progress of the justice system in Serbia and the rule of law, in line with EU accession requirements and lasted from 15 October 2018 to 15 October this year. The priorities to be achieved by this project are certainly empowerment, independence, accountability and transparency of the judiciary in the work, strengthening the capacity of the Council, as well as their working bodies, strengthening the capacity of the Administrative Office of the Council to provide effective and efficient professional administrative and technical and other support in the Council, as well as supporting the realisation of the objectives and tasks of the Council itself, which are defined in their strategic documents. As the effect of the pandemic has largely affected the functioning of the courts themselves, and in a situation where a large number of judges have been overburdened by the old cases that he has not yet been able to solve, I think the pandemic of the virus has only further made things worse in this context. In this regard, a plan was introduced on 16 November this year to remove the consequences in the work of the courts following the end of the declaration of emergency. The plan envisions a series of general, individual and specific measures to be implemented by the end of the year to address the consequences of the coronal virus in the part of the judiciary. It will be carried out by a working group, which first has the task of establishing measures to speed up court proceedings as quickly as possible, in order to normalise the situation in courts by the end of the year and reduce the number of cases to the level that existed in 2019. The task force was also formed with support under the EU Project "For Serbia", i.e. support to the High Cassation Court and the International Development Agency Project, the rule of law. The advantage is certainly in resolving these disputes will have urgent, priority and old items. The plan foresees, not only the general measures that I was now talking about, but also the individual measures that the presidents of the courts can implement to address the consequences of the virus's corona in terms of urgency and ways of resolving the procedures themselves. Next, it will insist on using electronic advertising boards and electronic sales in executive procedures, of course, in accordance with the law on enforcement and security. Simply, we need to adapt to the new situation and try to adapt the way the courts function to the situation where we are now in the root of the virus. Further, with the support of the Council of Europe Office in Serbia, as well as EU delegations, it is necessary to step up talks on joint plans aimed at strengthening the independence and efficiency of the judiciary in general. We are currently on the path of some very important constitutional reforms in order to strengthen independence, impartiality, and greater transparency of the judiciary itself, and this should be our common priority in some future period. As the rule of law is one of the key arguments in Serbia's pre-accession negotiations, we need to focus on reducing the number of old cases, on equating judicial practice that will create some kind of legal certainty, but also on adopting changes to the relevant judicial laws necessary to improve the guarantees of judicial independence. Finally, I would mention that in the last six years, the EU has given full support to the rule of law and judicial reform in Serbia, but also to internal affairs, worth over 163m euros. Only for the EU justice sector is currently funding ongoing assistance to 13.5m euros in judicial reform. As the Serbian government adopted a new justice development strategy in early July for the period from 2020 to 2025, but also a revised action plan for Chapter 23, it is only up to us to take all the measures at our disposal to improve efficiency through all these documents that we have brought and that will help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1954	Thank you. Mr. Panitic has re-applyed for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1955	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I've only missed one candidate who's been proposed president of the King's Criminal Court. It's about a judge from that court, Maria Bažalac, to give you some additional information that may be of some influence in your decision to elect the President of the King's Criminal Court. Namely, against Maria Bazalac, a disciplinary procedure was initiated by the Disciplinary Commission of the High Council of the Judiciary. The Disciplinary Commission of the High Council of the judiciary adopted a proposal by the disciplinary prosecutor for the conduct of the disciplinary procedure and declared Judge Maria Bajalac responsible for carrying out a disciplinary violation of an unwarranted change in the annual schedule of judicial proceedings in court, and in violation of the principle of a random judge contrary to the law of Article 90(1), paragraph 17. The law on judges. Marija Bažalac, against this decision by the Disciplinary Commission, made an appeal to the High Council of the Judiciary and by resolving by appeal the High Council of the Court held at a session held on 11 December 2020, unanimously reached a solution that rejected the appeal as unfounded and confirmed the resolution of the Disciplinary Commission of the High Council of the Court of Justice of 9 October 2020. Therefore, this solution to the High Council of the judiciary is finally and the ruling against Judge Maria Bhazalac is final. Against the decision of the High Council of the Judiciary Judge Maria Bozalac can initiate an administrative dispute, a lawsuit. He can press charges to the Administrative Court, but this decision on the disciplinary violation made by Maria Bozdavac is final. That's all I'm saying is that you have that in mind when deciding to elect the president of the King's Criminal Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1956	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Tom Fila. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1957	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, and yesterday I said we were representatives of the people. Why did I say that? Generally, he explained counterpart Djukanovic. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we will vote for everything you have suggested. You didn't need to read to us, because we got it in materials, but what's good, which I hope we'll adopt, the measures of the Serbian Government for the amendments to the Constitution, and that this will be the last time, that we choose you and the presidents of the courts, and the State's Major Prosecutor's Office, "mutatis mutandis", when I say to the judges, too. I agree with my colleague Djukanovic in almost everything he said, because he's also a lawyer, and he's got a lot of lawyers here in the SPS two, but a lot more here. Why am I telling you this now? There's something else I want to say. We've received a proposal from the government that we'll probably discuss for sure, I don't know when, in which justice requires certain changes. I welcome the shifts, for example. I don't know why you put it on, because it's grandmothers and frogs, the case and the Supreme Court aren't the same. I don't know how you didn't rebel over that. But, well, that's your problem. I hope so, the judges will judge this and that anyway. The only thing that fellow Djukanovic was saying, the only thing we care about is that the election for judges, the first choice for judges, is here. Why would he be here? That's why I said we're representatives of the people, we're controlled, the people chose us, not you. We choose the government, we can shoot down the government tomorrow if it's not good. What do you mean? How is this the site of a Venice Commission that I can't understand at all, that you ten choose judges, you work on them? You're not independent, you're not God, only God doesn't have to ask anyone. In various authorities, the judicial authority of God is not given. She's also one of the kind of government and someone has to control them. Now, the big question is, not to repeat this the same thing we're voting today. For the first time, I've been in Parliament, there are those who are long. You read us the names we got in the material, you didn't have to, we got the biographies, so I hope I never have to vote for the presidents of the courts again, because you have to choose them, not us. I say "mutatis mutandis", for a fellow prosecutor. Also, I agree that we don't need one elected judge in three years to recheck, and that's interfering with the independence of the judiciary. But 250 of us and 250 of us must know better than you 10 who should be the judge in this country. You know, counterpart Djukanovic forgot, we had one judicial reform under the Democrats, which, of course, failed. We spoke, our people said – the path to hell was paved by good intentions, but they were not good intentions. The dishes were cleaned, from someone like this, like that. One group responded, spent three minutes, and less than three minutes for one judge, to kick him out or promote him. But you know where the consequences are? Those judges stay until they retire, because you're permanent, no one can move you, and that's how it should be, and they don't move you or anything like that. I agree. Now, how do we do that? I'll tell you the legal experience, our members were, I'm lying again, that no one should be in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and I agree, too, if you think this is necessary, that no one from the Assembly needs it, but first choice, no. Why? How did we react? Our chamber presidents were members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, always under the prosecution, I consider both names and names. Otherwise, you take salaries together in the same place, and that's a mix-up that's not good, you shouldn't be in the same building. That's what I was working on when I was president of the Chamber, but unfortunately, there was a break-up of Yugoslavia, so you wouldn't be together anywhere, waiting for you prosecutors the same order as you lawyers, not for us to enter the courtroom, and you're already sitting with the president. You're not on one side, and we're on the other, lawyers, but that's a story for another story. I wanted to say how we handled it. When we were offered someone as a judge, we called the bar of lawyers where that judge came from, and we asked that the lawyers make a statement, whether that judge should progress or not, whether he's good or not, and then we acted that way. The second question was our right not to take some of your ranks and those lines from the D.A.'s office, because they were judges and prosecutors who treated us worse than the defendants. There was a war crimes prosecutor we didn't want to hear that... Because they were coming in from NGOs to him, he was the happiest Brammertz ever said about him that he was the best man and the best prosecutor. We don't need a lawyer like that. You know what's important? If you'd excuse that, I lobby more MPs than anyone, because I hope that reason will prevail and prevail, that we choose judges, so, we have more parties, let everyone ask their committee what kind of man it is, not that I'm reading names and I have no idea who these people are. I believe, absolutely believe, it's not a joke, I believe you are the best people, why wouldn't I believe it, but I'd like to know something about it, not that you're reading me a simple biography. It is a “modus operandi. ” For example, they mention the President of France. The President of the Republic of France shall appoint judges, but how? By getting names and then being shown who judges are and he's not getting involved in it at all. I don't think that this assembly is the President of the Republic and that we need an indication that we're setting up judges, but by reason, we need to know what kind of people it is. Because if he doesn't, that mistake is unforgivable, it lasts until retirement. So we pick a man when he's 30 and then 35 we're gonna have to put up with him, and he's gonna know what mistakes he's making. Justice is the most important thing after health care. I absolutely agree, for the third time, to mention Djukanovic, that we have brought down the value of the judiciary. Now, let's change it, let's do something. The European Commission resents us for not having an opposition. If we don't, let's make it an advantage. We work on Saturdays and Sundays. We'll get all these regulations, we'll do whatever it takes, and then let the government see what they do with it. That is why this line is good, that we represent the people, that is why the MPs are representatives of the people, and that is why judgment is made in the name of the people. Imagine if these 10 people have such power, whether judges will judge on behalf of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because they have nothing to do with the people anymore. What do the people and they have to do when we don't choose them? To put you out of your misery to listen to me, I'm staying here because there's no need to mention what Duke said. I absolutely accept that. Gjuca, you've got a problem with what you said, but let's share that problem together, 'cause together we think the same thing. Thank you very much and excuse me, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1958	I thank the authorised representatives. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The first on the list is MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1959	Thank you. Dear representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, the prosecution, the Public Procurement Commission, the citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis and it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was elected here in the Assembly from the list “Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children” and I represent the United Peasants' Party. As a fellow lawyer, a man who is most recognizable in this sphere in Serbia, Mr. Fila, I am a representative of the people, I represent citizens in southeast Serbia, and I always talk about the problems that concern me and the problems I feel on my own. As far as all these points are concerned, specifically about the selection of these presidents of the courts, the prosecutor, I will say only a few things, since the man who is here among us, Mr Pantic, is a man whom in the first part recognizes and knows all the people of southeastern Serbia as an experienced judge, as an honest judge, as a man who shares justice properly. I trust him completely, especially for these people he talked about and those people who come from Nisavsky County. Mr Pantic, who represents the High Council of the judiciary, does not turn out to praise him but I will say what I know, is a man who has his reputations, his knowledge and I believe everything you said. That's why I'm going to support all those proposals that you've just made, and I think that here, from this place, I'm telling you and my colleagues here in the Assembly, MPs, and citizens, that we need to provide a little bit of time in the coming period and give more attention to the municipalities that I come from, to municipalities that are small, who don't have their own courts, they don't have any judgment days, they don't have judicial units. We used to have our days ahead, and now we don't have that either. So now a lot of our people who have problems with some litigation, some kind of border or something, all of our people who are waving old people, who live in some of the edge areas of our municipalities, need to get to Srlig, or Nis, in order to have the opportunity to exorcise and seek their own justice, so that's where the costs are made. It would be good to have some understanding of such environments and to provide those people in such municipalities with the possibility of not making bigger costs, not wasting time, or having a large number of these old people who don't even know how to handle themselves in bigger places. So it would be good to find the possibility that in the coming year we can provide even the fundamental right for our people from our municipalities who don't have their own judicial units, who don't have their own courts, and who don't have their own days, to provide them with the possibility that they can finish their jobs there, in their home communities. That would be necessary and it's human. We have to think that way, because it's a very difficult situation in these small environments, where they're a wave of old people, where they're hard to live, and at least in that part, we make it easier for them to exercise their rights and get justice like the law says. Once again, dear colleagues, I will vote for all these proposals. Once again, I will support all that is needed both as president and as MP of the United Peasants' Party, and I will ask for the necessary things for these undeveloped municipalities, for mountainous areas, for our people living in the country and from the village. Thanks again. I'll support all these suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1960	Thank you. The word is made by Committee Chairman Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1961	I'll just take a minute. First, to thank my esteemed colleague, Tommy Philly, who understands this serious problem that we are facing. Yeah, I didn't mention on purpose so-called. The reform of the judiciary, which was made at the time of the former government because it was not a reform, it was a scandal. It was a total destruction of justice. What was then done, for the next 30 or 40 years, cannot be corrected. There's no chance. At that time, the judiciary was completely destroyed, and it was during that period that judges were elected by party resemblance, i.e. how the Democratic Party's municipal board, for example, reported - he was great, because of our door-to-door campaign, he participated in actions etc. That's how they chose, unfortunately, the judges. We pay a high price today because most judges the Constitutional Court made it possible to go back and then we got more chaos. Of course, these people had every right to seek damages, etc. Unfortunately, we pay a high price for such a dazzling reform, so-called reform if it can be called that, but what should we do? What I have to agree with my esteemed colleague Phil, and that's this story about the judge's election, I'm really going to be incorrigible... I'm in favour of the first time a judge is elected has to be elected by parliament. So the first time we choose him, not the first term, the first term should be lifted. Once again, there is a constant judicial function in the Constitution. This is the case in most of the countries that we are seeking in the EU, because the continuity of the judicial function guarantees both its independence and independence, etc. And the existence, after all, and it should really be lifted if the judge is elected to the first term. The judge can't be on probation. It's pointless completely. This election of judges, the first time we choose it, must be in parliament. For all of this, I fully agree with you, it is unnecessary for parliament to discuss this. What we should, I agree, is today we choose the presidents of the courts to elect the presidents of the courts. We are not able here, nor are we personnel, nor can we see whether any judge has really made career progress in the right way or not, because most people here may not be lawyers, nor can they see it all that way, so I agree that it should allow an independent body, such as now the High Council of the Judiciary. As they choose in the future, we'll see. This story of a complete absence in the European Union, I don't know, of justice policies, is all very well imagined and this tripartite division of power into legislative, executive and judicial something great and awesome, but in countries that ask us to, first, there is no such thing. Here you have Germany, for example, where you have an organ formed at the level of the province, when you choose the province's judges, in which politicians sit and where politicians directly from political parties decide even in that regional authority who will be the judge. If we proposed here, we'd be crucified in all the media. Imagine if someone here in the political structures suggested that, we would have to have politicians sit down and choose a judge, and you see in Germany that at the province level can. What they keep telling us about independence and independence, it's all very nice, but first I always say, apply it in your countries. Use this in your countries, even what they say – in France, for example. Makron or the president of France, whoever he is, just says he declares that he is proposing judges. Imagine if we were to suggest here – here, let Alexander Vukitz just declares the judges. We'd be crucified in all the media. In France, that's quite all right. So, the fact is there's an independent body out there that chooses judges like that, suggests them to the President of France, and then he really proposes who will be elected, but there's a fact that that's what the President of France does. Imagine if they told me that in Serbia. Let's say that the president of Serbia declares himself, he suggests. There's no way, there's no way, because we're always going to be taught what's democratic, what's not democratic, and basically in their own countries, they're going to have to apply it, and then they're going to come here to us. You know, sometimes I feel like those who come to us from these European countries are acting like they're trainers. Now we need to be trained here as they tell us, about how we're doing a big, how we're doing a little emergency, now that they're teaching us. We didn't, you know, fall off Mars. Yet this country has its great tradition, medieval history, and it had laws and some state when many of them had not yet. It's kind of humiliating for them to come in just like that and tell us what independence and independence of the judiciary is, because essentially Serbia has had it in history long before. You should think about everything. I hope these constitutional amendments that have come to go public, to a public debate and that we will certainly discuss it. What I still have to say, and maybe if I don't answer anymore, some things have to really stop in our justice system. I'll be honest, specifically, I've had my chances and I'll say it so publicly. In particular, when you're a lawyer in a case and then you're in an incredible situation, I guess a lot of people are going to branch out, but for example, you're hearing charges against your client in the media, and you're not even informed that the indictment's been filed at all. So, as a lawyer, you don't get a lawsuit from the court or any notice, and you see that indictment in the media and it's quoted in detail. Now I'm curious - who's doing this in our courts? Is there any control around here, who does things like that? Guys, it's a scandal. Not to mention some documents that are even confidential from the case itself that magically end up in some media and then quoted. Otherwise, through certain media, terrible pressure on the judiciary, first of all, on judges, that they would have to judge because if the judge otherwise ruled the campaign against some people, then that judge would pass the media hot rabbit, literally, and that's scandalous media pressure on the judiciary. We have to prevent that kind of thing, and I hope that we will really, Mr. Phila, because you're loyal to your attorneyship, and all the people who otherwise insist that we have one judiciary in which the citizens will trust and I hope that we will all work together to restore citizens' trust in our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1962	Thank you. The next one registered for the word is National MP Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1963	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, today on the agenda of today's session is the selection of members of the VSS, members of the State Council of Prosecutors, the election of the president of all courts through the basic, senior, to the Supreme Cassation Court. I can't talk about candidates and their validity, because I don't come from the judiciary, I don't know their work and their expertise, but I actually believe that they were the right choice of their colleagues who knew their professionalism and their work. This is definitely where I come up with a story about the independence of the judges, which is certainly a tendency for the existence of a central pillar of government law. In July 2016, in the process of Serbia's EU accession, by opening chapters 23 and 24, independence of the judiciary is a key issue to be addressed. One of the reports of the Society of Judges discusses why independence in the judiciary is a long-standing process that requires political will as well. The main problems that need to be addressed highlight the solution to the problem of the network of jurisdiction of the courts, the inequality of judicial decisions, the slowness in resolving disputes with a priority requirement for judges to deal with integrity, securely, in line with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, independence of the judiciary does not mean the right of judges to decide on cases on their own, but that they are obliged to judge fairly under the Constitution and law. Judges cannot be excluded from the responsibility all citizens are subject to, as far as civil, criminal, disciplinary responsibilities are concerned. The state is obliged to regulate its judicial system by preventing any unauthorised influence on the exercise of judicial authority, but also to prevent the self-will in the conduct of the judge himself in individual cases. The judge must constantly improve his knowledge and abilities, which is also important to defend independence, because you know the right is a living thing and must not be viewed as just a series of boring expressions that appear in legal acts. The conclusion is that a sincere commitment of all important state actors is needed to bring about the rule of law, because the right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial court is a fundamental right laid down in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, as well as in international and national legal texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1964	Thank you, Mrs. Veljovic. The next person registered for the word is the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1965	Thank you, Chairman. Given the shortness of time, I'll start from and media really. So all that is is the essence of all these laws is to free the judiciary and the prosecution from political and criminal influence. Unfortunately, at the latest developments in Novi Pazar, which are merely the culmination of what has been going on for the past 30 years, we have seen that this is exactly the prosecution and this judiciary has failed much more than it should, because if we had freed the judiciary and the prosecution from the influence of politics and crime, that shooting could not have happened in front of the police administration, because it was precisely these criminal acts from the judiciary and the prosecution that person was still at large. In view of his previous criminal proceedings, she had to be arrested in advance and had to be behind bars in the long run. It is precisely because the prosecution and the judiciary did not react as they should, it encourages and encourages criminals to continue to endure and to put citizens at risk, or to produce a general threat to all citizens. That's why we need the D.A.'s office to adopt that all parts of the judiciary are relieved, released in every sense from politics, from criminal influences. Until that happens, we will continue to be hostages, such as hostages and all the citizens of this country, such as our children's hostages, our parents, who can't walk free on the streets, because some punk who should be behind bars, precisely because of that influence and sprawl with the prosecution, will be at large and will be allowed to shoot as it did to the citizens, causing serious physical injuries, or murder in the attempt and ordinary passers-by. That's why it's high time for all of this to be solved, or for one decisive response from the state, by state authorities, to show that nothing is stronger than the state, that nothing is stronger than the rule of law, and that only if all three aspects are equally and equally strong, it is the police, but after the police, the judiciary and the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1966	Thank you. The next reported one is Dr. Bacevic. There was no change by the parliamentary group. So he won't talk. Thank you. Last reported is Master Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1967	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of President and member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as well as a proposal for a choice for these two functions. The public procurement process aims to ensure an efficient and economic spending of budgets. The legally implemented public procurement procedure should also ensure that the bidder with the best offer in relation to the offered price and the quality of the product is selected in the tender and that it is awarded a contract on the supply of goods and services. A system of protection of rights in public procurement procedures in the Republic of Serbia has been established by the Law on Public Procurement, with amendments to the laws several times, as well as with special amendments and additions to the laws that came into force this year. Protecting the rights of the bidder is one of the most important basis for the regularity of the procurement procedure. The protection of public procurement procedures is essential for a reliable, functional system of public procurement, the principles of transparency of the same treatment and non-discrimination. The objective of the regulation is to ensure that irregularity in the proceedings of the dispute, of the IDs as soon as they occur. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures was educated in 2002 on the basis of the Law on Public Procurement, but changed its business, organisation and mode of operation, as well as the composition and way of selecting members and presidents of the Commission during its existence. The exercise of the protection of rights is made possible at all stages of the procurement process. Other laws, such as the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Violations, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Law on Administrative Disputes, as the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, as well as many other laws, are important for the implementation of the protection procedure. The provisions of the Law on Public Procurement have legal personality and corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for its work. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights is a prerequisite for achieving the principle of legal certainty in the area of public procurement. The system of protection of rights is based on two degrees, which means that the decision on the application for protection of the first-degree right is made by the contracting authority, which may be a state body or a legal person, until the second-degree decides by the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights and its decisions are subject to control in the administrative dispute. The Commission resolves disputes between contracting authorities and tenderers on the second stage, sanctioning identified irregularities in public procurement procedures. As a second-degree body, the Commission for the Protection of Rights cannot decide on a procedure in whole or in part to annul and reject the appeal of the tenderer. The Commission's decision cannot be appealed, but an administrative dispute can be initiated, which means that the Republic Commission's decision is final but not judicial. The provisions of the Public Procurement Act prohibit any attempt to influence the decision-making of the Republic Commission as a public step-up to influence the course of the proceedings. The President of the Commission and the members may not be called on to be responsible for the opinion or vote when making decisions. The publication of decisions taken by the Republic Commission on the official website and the public procurement portal is a good mechanism to make the work of the body transparent, which is very important for each procedure. Chapter 5 on public procurement in accession negotiations with the EU is easy to open, as domestic regulations are largely in line with European regulations, but will not be so easily closed due to the need for compliance with many other laws and regulations with European legislation. The latest European Commission Report on Chapter 5 found limited progress. Serbia, according to their assessment, is moderately prepared in the area of public procurement. The Law on Public Procurement of Presidents and Members of the Commission elects and resolves the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee following a public competition. With the current president and one member out of office, the Assembly Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have conducted all legal procedures to elect today a new president and a member of the Republic Commission. The Committee established a proposal for a decision, proposed to the President of the Commission Hana Hukic, the President-in-Office so far, and of the three candidates for a member of the Commission, the Committee proposed to Jasmine Milenkovic, a former member of the Commission. The JS parliamentary group will vote for the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1968	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, I ask before the conclusion of a joint single search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank and conclude a joint single search. I especially thank Mrs Lagumdzija, Mrs Djelic and Mr Pantic for their participation. We're moving on to determining the voting day after the search is over. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the motions for decisions in points 10 to 18 of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set out that the voter's day on proposals for individual acts will be immediately upon the completion of the search for those acts. In accordance with this provision, I set Wednesday, December 23, 2020, starting at 13, 45 a.m., as the Election Day on motions for decisions from the 10th to the 18th agenda. We keep working. There is a unique search of the 19th agenda – Proposal for a decision to adopt the Code of Conduct of the Members of the People. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs, members of each parliamentary group. The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, may propose a long debate. We don't have a proposal like that. I now ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Therefore, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure, please submit your proposals. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are opening a single search into the draft decision on the adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which was tabled by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. Does the proposing representative, National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the Committee, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will make only a few findings concerning the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, namely the proposal of the Code of Procedure, which was drawn up by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and on the basis of the draft by the Working Group, which was made up by all representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's important to make a point. So we have achieved one general political consensus, regardless of whether we are members of the parties that are in power or who are in opposition to the contents of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. I think it's something that's very important. At the Working Group session, absolutely no one had any fundamental objections to the draft code. We adopted the draft at the Working Group session unanimously, as we unanimously adopted it at the session of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, and I think that only Mr. Shaip Kamberi was against it, although on the previous day, at the meeting of the Working Group of MPs, who was a member of his parliamentary group, Mrs. Selma Kučević, voted in favour of the draft code. What is also important to highlight is to highlight the work on drawing up codes of conduct of MPs began at a time when the chairman of the Administrative Committee, it is important to emphasize himself because of citizens because of fellow MPs, but also because of certain means of public information which in recent days is quite malignancies with misappropriation, with the presentation of numerous falses, write or report information related to the history of drawing up codes of conduct of MPs. So the work began at a time when the chairman of the Administrative Board, so called the working body at the time, was Mr Nenad Konstantinovic. From this fact, you can see how many years it's been since he started working on making the codes. At that time, the single DS talked a lot about the importance of the code, about how it is one of their main political missions in parliament to bring the code, that the code is something that is a European standard, that only those parties who advocate Serbia's entry into the EU can do that, and at that time, of course, they gave themselves a monopoly on the fact that the only party that can force Serbia into the process of European integration. As in many other things, they did absolutely nothing, except make a few working versions of the code, but they did not take a single step away from it. The work on drawing up the code was continued in 2014 at a time when the chairman of the Administrative Committee was my esteemed colleague and former SNS parliamentary group president Zoran Babic. We then received a very solid draft of the codes of conduct of the MPs and what is interesting, what most of the public does not know, and I see that not many of the media controlled by Dragan Gilas and who these days have thrown fire at the proposal of the Code which was made up by the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Immunity Issues, without even reading it according to that old, good Agyptian method of condemning books and if you haven't even read them, but in advance you know that it is not good just because the Chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs is a matter of political circumstances, so I guess that's why the code is not good, so these days they said - Martinović's code doesn't need to pull it out of the procedure, contains a series of shortcomings, etc, although I can see from the text that they didn't even read its content and that they don't really know what its essence is. So, in 2014, an important job was done to draw up the draft codes and what I wanted to say and what was also very interesting at the time when the chairman of the Administrative Board was Mr Babic, the Administrative Committee once gave a delegation of the Montenegrin Parliament our work version, that is, our draft codes of conduct of the MPs and the Montenegrins adopted this draft of the code without any changes, other than the language ones. They transferred the Evac to Ikvavica and voted it in the Montenegrin Assembly. I think it was 2015 or 2016. The second code, but very similar to the original one, to tell our draft, was adopted in 2019. I'm saying this on purpose because of the media controlled by Dragan Gilas because I guess now that we adopt the code of conduct of the MPs tomorrow that one of the information will be that it's the code we allegedly signed off from the Montenegrins. We didn't. They've copied it from us and there's nothing to argue about. The code of conduct of MPs is not a scientific work, it's not a textbook, it's not a study, it's not a monograph. It is normal for parliaments to exchange certain documents with each other because ultimately both Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia are seeking to meet certain European standards and it is good to co-operate when it comes to European integration, but it is good to co-operate on all other issues. I'm only saying this because you can expect today and tomorrow and the next days again one media hysteria by those who declare that nothing is wrong just because it comes from the ranks of the SNS. In the last term when I was chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, we continued to work on making the codes, but unfortunately could not reach consensus. You know what the calling of the past National Assembly was, one very complex parliamentary structure. Things were tightened, certain parliamentary groups felt that it was the essence of politics that we started to physically deal with each other, to insult each other, to attack, to enter stones, to rub microphones, to break into the office of the president of the National Assembly, and in such an atmosphere, unfortunately, we failed to complete the work on making codes. We finished this job a few days ago, and I want to tell you that there is one, humblely speaking, solid text of the code before you. Of course, there's always room for what's done to be better, but I think for the first time we've got one text that everyone or almost everyone agrees with, and you'll see when you read that text, if you haven't read it, that it meets basic standards when it comes to improving political culture in our society, which I think is its basic goal. The aim of this code is not to punish Members of Parliament. We have been able to read the past few days and weeks in certain media controlled by Dragan Gilas and so on. The pro-European opposition that this code will provide for penalties of two or three parliamentary salaries. We didn't do it because it's not the essence of the code in the fine of the MPs. This code has three main objectives. The first goal is to improve political culture in Parliament itself, which means that we MPs don't need each other no matter what parliamentary group we belong to, whether we're independent MPs, whether we're MPs of a party that's in power or party that's in opposition. We must not look at enemies. We can't look at people who need to be exterminated. We are just political inexperiences, which means that we are obliged to talk to each other as decent people do, civilized, cultural, with arguments, without any insult, without any humiliation, without incurring to personal and family life, and unfortunately, we have witnessed the fact that our public life is full of it, especially when it comes to the President of the Republic and his family. Neither many ministers in the Serbian government nor many MPs have been spared. We simply wanted by this code to withdraw the condition, one red line. So where's the limit as far as you can go in the criticism of those who don't feel the same way as you do. Criticism is not physical accounting, criticism is not when you enter a stone into the National Assembly, criticism is not when you try with a flag to break down the door and violently enter the National Assembly. It's not criticism, it's not politics and it's not democracy when you enter the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly. It's not democracy, it's not parliamentaryism when you insult people who don't think the same way you think and who don't share the same political values with you. So, the aim of the Code is first and foremost to improve political culture in Parliament itself and to never again be the scene of such scenes and such statements in the Assembly or in front of the Assembly, as we could see and hear and to witness in the period from 2016 to the term of office which expired in 2020. The second goal is for all MPs to be responsible for the means of public information, according to the media, to respect the representatives of public information funds and to give answers to the questions asked if they know them. Finally, the aim of the adoption of the Code is for MPs to be absolutely open to citizens, to be, in order to say to the modern political dictionary, the service of citizens. So, we will be obliged when we adopt this code to be in constant and direct contact with citizens, to answer their questions and to help them as much as the MP can help the citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has a certain problem, who has a certain doubt or who is simply interested in something. So we can't run away from the citizens anymore, hide, say we've got a lot of work to do. None of us, after we adopt this code, will have more important things to do than to be truly in the right sense of that word, are therefore representative of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and do not forget, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all of us, whether we are the government or the opposition, represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not just representatives of political parties, we represent all the citizens of our country, and in this sense, the citizen as an individual will have to put our political attention into focus. What is also prescribed by this code, which is that we will have to pay attention to people who work in the National Assembly and who are not MPs. I mean civil servants and tenants, who are part of the National Assembly, and you will admit that without them our job as MPs would hardly be possible. So I ask all the MPs to bear in mind that the woman who cooks their coffee and the young man who brings them that coffee to the office, the officer who cares for our safety at the front door of the National Assembly, everyone who works in the National Assembly is a man and you have to treat him like a man, to respect him, to tell him good day in the hallway, to encourage him if it comes to civil servants to perfect themselves all the time. They are particularly aware of this and are especially aware of those MPs who are also chairman of the Committee in the National Assembly. I, as a longtime MP, know very well how important it is when for example. The secretary of the board has someone who knows the matter, who is competent in his work, then board sessions take place without any problems. Just as the meetings of the National Assembly take place without any problems when you have good ones, as these people of the National Assembly would say prepare the session. It's all done by those people who can't be recorded, who can't be seen, we see them, but the citizens of Serbia don't see them, who are hundreds of people here and who, every day and when we don't sit down, come to their jobs and do work for the needs of the MPs. What I also want to say is to thank Mr. Mihajl Zivkovic, legal adviser, Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic and Mr. Sikimic, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, who are their useful advices and suggestions, which we have translated into amendments submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic and which I am accepting at this time. So, please note, I accept the amendments submitted by Mr Orlic, and these suggestions that have, I say, been translated into amendments improve the text of the proposal for a code although, of course, it does not change its essence. What I also want to say, and I'm going to end up with, I won't be long, the code is going to speak much more about the importance of political culture than my younger colleague Nevena Đuric, but I want to say something for all of us who are MPs, but I want to say something because of all of us who are MPs and for the citizens of Serbia, and I also told Mr Zivkovic and Mr Sikimic when we talked, first of all, about the draft, and then a proposal for a code of conduct of the MPs. You will see that there are provisions in the text of the Code concerning the ban on conflicts of interest, on the ban on placing private interest above the public, on the obligation of the MP to report to the President of the National Assembly a gift that he may have received, and which, by its value, exceeds the value prescribed by law, etc. These provisions exist in the code, but what I'm saying is that we all have to do everything we can to raise the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly. I don't think any of the MPs, no matter what political party they belong to, are a bad man and corrupt. There's no corruption in the National Assembly. I see that these days Gilas' media has called about how the retail center and the heart of corruption are the National Assembly. What can you MPs, no matter what political party you belong to, what can you steal, what corrupt work can you do in the National Assembly? You can steal a pen, some paper packaging for a printer, a rubber, I don't know, some marker of yellow or red, etc. That's nonsense. Corruption is where public funds are spent, where public money is spent, where millions of contracts are signed, where fees are taken. Is that what you're doing? Does any of you do that? No, I don't. Even if you want to do it, the Constitution makes it impossible for you, because it's not yours, or it's not our job. So I want simple and I want to ask everyone to work on it, just put aside this suspicion that falls on the MPs all the time, that we're some very bad people who don't do anything here that we steal, that we have a lot of money. All of you who live on an MP's salary know that you can't get rich from that salary. From that salary you can live solidly, to feed yourself and your family members, but to get rich in the way that the people who criticize this code, and who haven't even read it, I'm thinking first of all about Dragan Gilas and the media he controls, has no chance at all. So, with this code, we step forward when it comes to raising the level of political culture in our country. We show this code that we want to behave differently than certain MPs have acted in the past or in some previous councils, and that parliament really becomes a place of dialogue, a place where decent, civilized people who belong to different political parties, who have different views of the world, who have different political beliefs, but who are not each other's enemies, who are available to the media, who are only available to citizens and who will work exclusively in the public interest, not in the interest of private or group. I invite you to take part in this debate, to discuss absolutely all the provisions contained in the Code proposal, to listen to each other, to accept all the useful suggestions, because now we are doing one job that is not just for this assembly, we are now doing one job that will be important for some new generations of MPs who will come when we stop our mandate. It is therefore important to adopt this code because it will be a cornerstone, one of the cornerstones on which Serbian parliamentary democracy will rest. This code is primarily important for us. We don't bring it and we don't adopt it because someone on the outside makes us adopt it. We have functioned without codes and so far, but we have functioned in a way that individual political parties, or individual parliamentary groups, considered the National Assembly to be a gladiatorial arena in which everything is permitted, and even that you physically deal with those who don't feel the same way as you do. By passing this code, we will prevent the National Assembly from becoming a gladiatorial arena, to become a place of dialogue, to be debated, to be confronted with opinions, but in which there will never be room for insults again, for swearing, and especially for various outflows of fascism, physical accounting, violence or encouragement to any form of hatred, national, religious, racial, based on language, gender, age, personal wealth, degree of education or any other basis. Please, Mr. Vice President, just to get it into the stenogram and the record, that I have accepted all the amendments that you submitted yesterday to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1970	I would like to thank Dr Martinovic for the precise reasons that you have just provided on the subject of the proposed code of conduct of MPs and the accompanying circumstances related to the adoption of this text. I am sure that these arguments will have an appropriate effect, especially in the case of on-call critics, as you have well noticed, who are already used to having opinions about everything they know nothing or know very little about, and have not failed to treat this proposed text of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. After all, the beneficial fact of your words on these people has proved to be on many occasions so far. I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be this time. I find that the proposing representative has said he accepts eight amendments proposed on 22.12 by MP Vladimir Orlic and enters the minutes. We are now moving on to the presentation of authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. In front of the SVM parliamentary group, the SVM word has the vice-president of Mrs Elvira Kovac's National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1971	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Proposer, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Code of Conduct that we are discussing today is a document that sets out universal values, in fact as a guideline for the operation and behaviour of the MPs, but the excessive code of conduct is a document that promotes a political culture based on decent, true, transparent and fair behaviour of the MPs. The proposal for a code of conduct of Members of Parliaments is drawn up by respecting methodological rules, such as clarity, simplicity, concreteity, structuring, consistency, connectivity and relevance. If the chronology of past events is observed, if various reports are analysed, regardless of what we have heard from the esteemed promoter, we do not bring the code because someone recommended it, but certainly from the reputation of the SVM parliamentary group, I must stress that it is important that if we look at the reports of various bodies, and only in the past few, specifically five years, in the reports of the European Commission, as well as in the reports of the group of countries against corruption, GRECO repeats recommendations on the need for the National Assembly to adopt an ethical code. In this regard, the first report by the Council of Europe, namely GRECO, which specifically pointed to this issue, was published on 2 July 2015 in the need to prevent the corruption of MPs, and among the recommendations was concrete, to quote, the adoption of codes of conduct of MPs, as well as the suggestions that the code contains instructions for applying access to the public. The proposed amendments, which we have heard about, which the Proposer has just accepted, are directly referred to the conclusions of GRECO and directly implement the recommendations of this Council of Europe issued in the report by GRECO in the fourth round of evaluation on the subject – preventing corruption in relation to MPs, judges and prosecutors, which our parliamentary group certainly welcomes and supports. The fact is that the European Commission's Report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession process, once again to return five years back, published on 10 November 2015, also stressed that the National Assembly has not yet adopted an annual labour plan and an ethical code. When we discuss the current European Commission Report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession processes, this most recent one for 2020, the recommendation here is repeated - if it is part of the political criteria and concerns the very work of our institution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and says the report that it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure on Labour, adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs in line with the best practice and expertise of the EU. In late August 2019, David McAllister, chairing the European Parliament's foreign political committee, addressed then-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Maja Gojkovic and suggested that an inter-party dialogue be organised under the auspices of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind all of you that two stages of this dialogue were agreed at the time. The first phase of the talks before the elections and the second phase after the elections. In fact, it was agreed and signed that after the election, the focus of the talks would be on building trust in the procedures and practices of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, in that sense, it was also part of the adoption of an ethical code. As we have heard from the esteemed promoter, in the past, if I am counting correctly, 12 years have really done a lot of things but this question. There were several attempts to make an ethical code. The first working group was formed back in 2008, chaired by the then chairman of the Administrative Committee, and also in the meeting between 2014 and 2016, when Mr Zoran Babic was chairman of the Administrative Committee, it came to the draft, as we heard. In the meantime, it was created, in a previous meeting, in 2017 and a working group. So, what is significant, while respecting the recommendations made by the Council of Europe, GRECO and the European Commission, the Working Group of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia took into account indeed the best practices of the EU when drawing up codes of conduct, as well as the experiences of the European Parliament itself, and as fundamental principles of codes of conduct of the MPs: impartiality, integrity, openness, diligence, honesty, accountability, respect for the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, acting solely in the public interest, abstention from accepting financial benefit or other compensation. In the preparation of the text of the codes of Members of the People's Parliaments as three resilient points, it is stated: that consistent application of the rules and principles laid down by the Code of Conduct is crucial to raising the level of political responsibility and public confidence in the very institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the integrity and integrity of the MPs is, in fact, measured by their commitment to the protection of the general good and the interests of the citizens and that the integrity of the MP is the foothold of the legitimacy of the National Assembly. The question arises, did we, could the National Assembly have brought a code of conduct before? Probably the answer to this hypothetical question is yes. We could probably have done it sooner. But the fact is that when we speak and experience in European countries, experience is different, the framework is different, very different. There is no unique practice. We must stress that not all EU members in their parliaments have brought ethical codes and that indeed the matter of the behaviour of the citizens' MPs is regulated in very diverse, different ways and that there is no general way of resolving this issue either internationally or on the European agenda. One part of the countries regulated this area with general acts for public officials, and in a number of countries, if we compare the practice, it was resolved by the rules of procedure of these congregations or various regulations. For example, the Finnish parliament does not have the code of conduct of MPs in terms of a special act that regulates this matter. However, the basic principles of behaviour as well as the rights and duties of MPs are regulated by a series of acts. So this issue regulates several different acts that regulate Parliament's competence and rights and obligations of MPs and other public officials. The principles of action of Members of the public, rights and obligations are regulated, above all, if we speak specifically, so on the case of Finland, the Constitution of Finland that regulates independence, immunity, freedom of speech, behaviour and conflict of interest of the Members of Parliament themselves. Criminal code regulates, for example, cases of bribery, etc. They also have a special resolution on the fight against corruption. I made this example, because it's partly similar to our case. So, while most EU countries have installed codes of conduct in their own rules of procedure on the work of their parliaments, as I have mentioned and therefore we are discussing this document today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been defined to produce a special act, the code of conduct of the MPs, acting on this occasion, which we certainly welcome, in accordance with the Resolution of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. This Resolution promotes 20 principles of fight against corruption, and, to quote: "the adoption of the elected representatives of the Code of Conduct is encouraged". Since the mid-1990s, in order to help countries fight corruption and raise the ethical standards of public officials, various international organisations have started to make different recommendations, even some have proposed different drafts of ethical codes proposed by the countries for adoption. Promoting the principles of political responsibility and strengthening Parliament's democratic credibility is one of the fundamental principles and the OSCE. In 1990, an Istanbul document called on the OSCE Member States to really step up efforts to promote good governance practices and public integrity, as well as to concentrate efforts to fight corruption. Speaking of examples from the EU, let me mention the European Parliament itself. In fact, the European Parliament also decided on a special document, and the code of conduct of MPs in the European Parliament came into force on 1 January 2012. They felt that it was really necessary to regulate the behaviour of MPs in the European Parliament, especially in terms of financial interests and conflicts of interest, that this issue was really regulated by the Code of Conduct for two reasons: because it is necessary to regulate ethical standards in order to strengthen trust in the efficiency, transparency and democracy of European institutions. In fact, research in the past few years has shown that citizens' confidence in the EU member states' parliaments has fallen. It was about 57% in 2007, for a few years to fall to only 31%, for example in 2012. Secondly, it is very important to cultivate a political culture that will always need protection of public interest, meaning always and at every moment put above and before private interest. Practice, therefore, of different countries that adopted the Code of Conduct has shown that the majority of MPs certainly hold to their integrity, i.e. respecting high professional standards, qualifications, competences to hold to responsible behaviour in public space. There are two types of codes of conduct. One is based on values, the other is on rules. The Parliamentary Group of the Duke of Hungarians believes that when we discuss this code of conduct, our future, which lies before us, that an adequate balance has been found precisely between a valuable and a normative one in this proposal. When an analysis of the code of conduct of MPs is a key issue, I think that the most speculative of those who may not have seen the final text or amendment is the key determination of the mechanisms of responsibility, i.e. in which a violation of the MP will be determined, whether the procedure will be conducted by an internal, concrete parliamentary body or by an external, external, independent body. There are indeed several models of implementation of the procedure, whether it is about internal mechanisms, external regulation, or perhaps a combination of these two methods. When we look closely at the amendments that have just been adopted, these amendments to the Code of Conduct proposal that we are discussing today are proposed to educate an Ethics Committee for Care, while supervision of the application of the Code remains the obligation of the Administrative Committee, except in that part of the provisions concerning the application of the private interests of the MPs, compliance with the rules concerning the performance of two or more functions, receiving gifts. So, to make it simple, on those issues that are in charge of the Anti-Corruption Agency. A mechanism of responsibility that represents a combination of internal, internal control mechanisms and external regulation is also proposed. This is, for example, an approach defined by certain countries, some countries such as Great Britain, the United States, France. For example, the UK, speaking of this case, the UK has brought its code of conduct and a guide to rules relating to the conduct of MPs in 1996. It refers to the behaviour of MPs in the House of Commons and this code was supplemented in 2009. The Code of Conduct of the Upper House was adopted in 2002 and was also updated in 2009. The law on parliamentary standards was also passed in the UK that same year. So that's when they were dealing with this topic. Both codes and laws shall be accompanied by bodies investigating and examining code violations. For the Code of Conduct of the Upper House, a very interesting solution is chosen, the Commissioner for Standards that oversees the implementation of the Code, in particular provisions on financial interests or parliamentary privileges. The investigations shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the guidebook for the application of the Code of Conduct. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, these proposed amendments that we are talking about are envisioned, as I said, by the Ethics Commission that would bring a guide to the application of the codes, which is good. To go back to Great Britain. Commissioner, I say a very interesting solution is an independent investigator and he's named above, in this case. Evidence and correspondence during the investigation are considered confidential, which is also a good solution. After the investigation, the Commissioner shall submit a report to the Sub-Committee on the conduct of the Lords, who considers the report and recommends disciplinary measures to the Committee on Privileges and Conduct. The MP has the right to appeal for disciplinary action, which is also interesting. After the procedure, the final decision on the disciplinary measure is made by the Upper House. So that's their solution. An MP who publicly admits a mistake is not subject to disciplinary action. The Parliamentary Commissioner for Code of Conduct Standards and a guide to rules relating to the behaviour of MPs receives an appeal from citizens, means I am still in Britain, citizens' complaints or MPs themselves, stating the violation of the code in carrying out the investigation. In the event that the MP violates the law, their interesting Law on Parliamentary Standards, especially when it comes to financial abuses, they are treated as a criminal offence resulting from the release of false or misleading information for financial gain. This crime is sanctioned by fine or imprisonment for up to a year, 12 months. I've made only two examples, Finland and Great Britain, to compare how this issue can be solved. The principles on which MPs' behaviour on the United Kingdom's parliament is based are unselfishness, responsibility, honesty, openness and leadership. But let's get back to our document. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians certainly supports and welcomes the fact that we have come to the stage that the task force has finished its work, that the Administrative Committee has established the proposal that the code of conduct lies before us. We also welcome the amendments, i.e. the amendments that are fully in line with the recommendations, conclusions, GRECO, and which have been accepted, because we are indeed putting the code of conduct of the MPs as an extremely important step towards restoring the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, bringing the government closer to the citizens, this should be the primary goal of all of us and strengthening the dignity and integrity of the MPs. And, no less importantly, the SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of this proposal for a code of conduct of MPs because we believe that this act should foster tolerance as an important and powerful means of accepting and respecting the differences between us all, but also enables and facilitates the achievement of consensus and compromises that are extremely important in politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1972	I thank Vice President Kovac. The word has the mandated representative of the UD-SDA parliamentary group Mr Mirsad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1973	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been almost a decade since it started with an initiative to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. So far, there have been several plans, but no such act has ever been willing to be adopted. Now, suddenly an urgent effort is made to bring the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which, due to some problematic provisions, represents a document that tries to narrow the freedom of expression of the MPs, primarily us from the ranks of the parliamentary opposition. By adopting a code like this, it is another means of establishing absolute control over the spoken word. This way of limiting freedom of expression is harmful to parliamentaryism. We are not against the adoption of universal rules which, according to the draft, aim to respect the principle of honesty, transparency, truth, impartiality and responsibilities in performing their functions. We are against those norms in this Codex that undermine the freedom of speech of the MPs, those norms that this Codex, or parliament, will turn into a political court and political trial for the MPs of a different opinion, and that political court does not foresee even the right to appeal for judgments. The restriction on the freedom of speech of Members of the People's Parliament, in our opinion, is the greatest damage that can be done to parliamentaryism, and that is precisely what the provision of article 6 obliges the MP to be prepared to submit to any control that we fear will refer to the very critical words and opinions. What kind of control is this? Who's going to exercise that control? We also find individual provisions of Article 8. which are contrary to the provisions of the Law on the official use of coat of arms and the flag of the Republic of Serbia. Article 9(1), paragraph 1, as well as Article 14(1), in practice, may in fact incriminate any non-insinuating MP who disagrees with the opinion and the court of the majority. Most importantly, in this Code, some of the majority's MPs are allowed to play the role of prosecutors over and over again by applying against those whose opinions they disagree with. In this way, some MPs counter-constitutionally place themselves in a privileged position compared to others. All in all, this code of conduct cannot possibly represent a step towards EU integration. On the contrary, it is a means of narrowing down the freedom of expression of MPs and the possibility of political reckoning with non-eminents. For these reasons, the United Valley Parliamentary Group – SDA Sandzak will not support such a proposal for a code of conduct of MPs, nor will it continue to participate in its adoption process in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1974	Thanks, buddy. The next speaker is Mr. Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1975	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, that is, a proposal for a code of conduct, a broader public known as the Ethical Code, so it may not be bad for us to go from that Semantic language meaning to this occasion. Ethics as part of philosophy or moral philosophy studies the concept of proper, or misbehaving and stems from the Greek word "ethicos" or "ethos", meaning habit or custom. Today, the word “ethos ” is more often used as a word that denotes climate in a collective or in a group. The very word “codex” in the original meaning means a handwritten book, but we use it as a law either as a group of laws or as a rule. Thus, an ethical code as an act should regulate the rules of conduct in an institution, in a collective, in a group. Of course, there are some universal ethical rules that are valid for today's civilization and for the whole world, but of course there are differences between entities and entities, so something that's right in some environment, in another doesn't mean it's right. We today need to establish the principles and rules of conduct of MPs, and I must say that it is not the first time that an ethical code is established for certain areas of society. Just to remind you, we've been talking a little bit about selecting members of the High Council of the Judiciary. I would like to say that in 2010, the High Council of the Judiciary adopted an ethical code governing the conduct of judges and prosecutors. It is similar when it comes to doctors and other areas. What I was about to say is that maybe this regulation, or the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, is causing particular attention to the public for the simple reason that in previous years it was wanted to present itself that politics and ethics do not go together, that politics and morals do not go together, which is essentially wrong, because politics has always been an act that was considered high moral, and in parliaments are chosen by people who considered the best representatives and representatives and chose them precisely on the basis of their moral and ethical qualities and values. What I wanted to say is that this Code of Conduct of People's MPs defines a lot, but the behaviour of MPs does not define only this proposal for an ethical code. I must say that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly also treats the question of the behaviour of the Members of Parliament. What is important here to say is that no code of conduct of the MPs, as the Rules of Procedure could not, will prevent the malignancies from breaking this Code, as did the Rules of Procedure, but it is good to define here some basic rules of conduct. What this ethical code includes is the basic principles that the MP should respect, which are the principle of truth, justice, honesty, the principle of impartiality, responsibility, integrity, openness, availability. This proposal of the Ethics Code or the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, can be said freely that it is solid, for the following reasons – respects the general ethical values, because it is democratic, is not repressive, because we agree that repression is not a way to regulate the rules of conduct of anyone, nor does the MPs, obliges the MP to be in direct contact not only with their constituents, but with all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this code of conduct obliges MPs not to assume the personal and party interests of general and state interest. Finally, I would like to repeat, there is neither this Code of Conduct of People's MPs nor the Rules of Procedure that will prevent the malicious MPs from causing problems and infringing the Code itself, as the Rules of Procedure have also violated. A good MP doesn't need a code of ethics so far. Not even the Rules of Procedure were needed, for it is not up to the MP, but to the man. As in all other actions, it's all about man. So, both ethics and education and behavior and supervision, that's all, after all, the individual thing, that's what we carry from home, from the environment in which we were raised and simply are part of some general behavior that we adopted through personal development. So for most of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this ethical code was not necessary. As for the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, and I can say for the vast majority of MPs in this high house, this code of conduct was really not necessary, because we represent a way to conduct a policy that is peaceful, which is a policy of dialogue and which is a policy of respect for a political inexperience and for this reason we say that it is all up to man, first of all, and to people, and not to some rules that prescribe that behaviour. Let me rephrase this, and let me conclude, we from the JS Parliamentary Group think that the code of conduct of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a document that needs this Assembly more as a conscience than a document that will strictly regulate the rules of conduct of the MPs. And what's even more important -- I don't think of it as a document that's important for harmonising with the recommendations of these or those of international institutions, but I consider it primarily an important document to raise the reputation of the National Assembly and this high home. We have read, of course, all the amendments that have been tabled and which the Proposer has accepted and we agree with these amendments on the draft codes of conduct of the Members of Parliament and in the day of voting we will vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1976	Thank you. Next up is Mr Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1977	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although the rules of work, organisation and functioning of parliament are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that by adopting the Code of Conduct, i.e. the rules of conduct of the MP, we will further specify this one area, define the standards that we should apply in practice. The code of conduct is consistent with the Rules of Procedure, which is most important. He will improve the work of parliament, but he also contains a certain newspaper in relation to the Rules of Procedure, above all, when we talk about sanctioning inappropriate and inappropriate behaviour and this time it is expressed in a public note, not only to be reduced to fines and I think we have done one step forward in this way. This code is based on principles, standards, values that are generally accepted not only for our society, but these are principles on which the working bodies of developed Western institutions rest. I believe that the adoption of such an act is important not only to bring our standards or our legal framework in line with the legal framework and standards of the countries of the European Union, but also to improve the work of the National Assembly and to preserve and preserve the dignity of such institutions as the central legislative authority. It is up to us to maintain our dignity through this code, or respect for the code, to restore citizens' trust in this institution. Simply, trust is always such that it is difficult to acquire it, it is easily lost, and I think that all past events have led to us working in this area, we have to work to safeguard dignity and to cultivate the trust of Serbian citizens in an institution such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In some European countries, the code of conduct has been regulated by the fact that it is contained in several different documents. We have made one good move with this code because we have united in one document all of those rules that we believe should be respected by the MPs so that the Assembly will function normally. It is important for us to have the work of Parliament well organised, to have quality discussions, to talk about the points on the agenda, not to make some unnecessary digressions and to result in quality laws, a quality legal framework that will regulate different social areas, and above all that will affect the raising of the standard of living in Serbia. We can only achieve this by respecting the Rules of Procedure and such a code of conduct, that is to say, creating an ambience of work where we will have respect for each other, political parties to have respect and respect for their political inexperiences, and it is truly understandable that each political party has its own programming goals, to present its own ideology, to make different views, I have no objection to even confronting different arguments, but in the end, it should be a good legal norm in the interests of all Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, experience from past years, but I can also say freely from the renewal of multi-party parliamentarianism in Serbia, for nearly 30 years, has contributed to this and say that this code of conduct is needed and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia needs it. There's been a lot of negative events in the last term, and I'm a witness to such events. The MPs often spoke falsely so that they might raise themselves up or lower their political opposition, there were also demonstrations of violence in the Assembly, in the hall where the meetings of the Republika Srpska Assembly were held, in a committee session, there were also violence outside the Serbian Parliament. Some MPs have brought in offensive transparencys here, and all for some, I might say, cheap promotions, for the attention they receive in the media in this way, to draw attention to themselves. If we go a little further into the past, we can see that there have been even more drastic examples, that MPs in this room used to count physically only with others, there have been pulls of microphones, water spills, shooting the chair's shoe, and all of this has created an ugly picture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that's why I think it's good that today we're talking about the code of conduct of the MPs and it's one responsibility for all of us to fix such a single picture and I think we're on the right track. The fact is that even severe fines have not helped some MPs behave inappropriately, to express themselves inappropriately. Simply MPs must be aware that they are representatives of all Serbian citizens here, to represent their constituents above all, that they are a mirror of their political parties, but on the other hand, and political parties must be aware that they are part of the responsibility when they are running for the seat of MPs and that they have to keep an eye on whom they will put on those lists to be MPs, or who will represent them in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one will suddenly transform by crossing the congregation threshold, so they will become neither more educated nor cultural, nor raised, nor have a richer dictionary. We simply carry our education out of the house, carry it out of the family, get education in school, in college, and the Code of Conduct will certainly not raise anyone, nor educate anyone, but we have to be aware that our shows, that our speeches primarily promote ourselves, that in this way we speak of their own qualities, but they often know that expressions and our flaws come into play. I don't expect by adopting this Codex overnight to solve all the problems. Surely there will still be some inappropriate dictionary, that there will be inappropriate behaviour, but this Code of Conduct must be one guideline, one reminder to all of us and the MPs who are in this House, to keep an eye on how we speak, how we treat our political opponents. French politician and French Prime Minister from the beginning of the 20th century, George Klemanso, at an open-air speech, had such an inconvenience that he had experienced that his political opponents whistled, exclaimed, disturbed him, and even imitated the voices of animals so as not to offend him in this way. His associates wanted to deal with political opponents at the time, but he then told them not to. He said then that everyone has the right to express their views, to express their thoughts, and that apparently his political opponents express their thoughts in the language closest to them. He thus humiliated not only his political opponents, but showed them that they had shown more about themselves than others by their offensive gestures. I just wanted to show on this case how inappropriate language and inappropriate behavior can sometimes be returned as a boomerang to someone who uses such a dictionary. Parliament is the place where we should present facts, where we should face attitudes and where we should ultimately win arguments. It is important for us from the SDPS and therefore we insist on a decent communication and mutual respect. I expect that all of us at the end of this term will be able to say that we have proudly represented the citizens of Serbia, that we have had a positive impact on the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, for starters, it is also good that all representatives of the parliamentary groups as members of the Working Group who were in charge of the creation of the Code of Conduct agreed that the code is necessary and we were mostly unique when it came to this proposal of the Code of Conduct. And whenever we talk about the conduct and address of the MPs, we need to pay attention to each other's course of communication. I'm not just talking about MPs, I'm talking about all state officials. These days, that is, in previous months, we have witnessed a number of insults being brought to the expense of top state officials, that members of their family and themselves, starting with the president of the state, are being insulted. The position of us from the SDPS and on this we will always insist that no one should be the victim of insult, that no one should be the victim of threats, nor the highest state officials and members of their family, nor the citizens of Serbia. And that is why we must all be unique together in how to raise the reputation of the National Assembly, but also how to protect every official, how to protect every citizen of Serbia, because we often ask a question – if someone today is able to insult every day or the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister or the People's Parliament, how only then do other citizens of Serbia who do not have the real protection that individual state officials have. We simply must all work together and be unique in that any such insult comes upon one broad condemnation of the public and only then will we know that we have succeeded in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1978	Thanks, buddy. Before the next speaker, just a brief announcement that the National Assembly will work today after 18.00 hours according to Article 27 and Article 87, and because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The next speaker is Mr. Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1979	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Martinovic, you have proposed an extremely important and important document that will contribute to the work of Parliament and the period ahead of us and the very application of this document will best confirm this conclusion. Of course, the SPS parliamentary club will support any proposal to strengthen the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will preserve Parliament's dignity and strengthen citizens' confidence in the highest legislative body. Of course we have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we also have rules to define it, clearly defined procedures, rules of conduct within parliament in the tide. The Rules of Procedure adopted in 2011 and which, I can say freely, and it has run over the time, because we adopted this Rules of Procedure as a transitional solution, and in 2011, respecting both the position and the Constitutional Court and the professional public and the European Commission, but this transitional solution remains current until 2020, and I believe that this Saziv has the readiness, will and strength to deal with this important act and that during the period ahead, we will work on the creation of a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So we have a Rules of Procedure, we have a rule, they have rules of conduct and clear procedures within the tide, but the ethical code has one, I would say, broader context. In addition to this being a qualitative step in terms of improving and clarifying the rules of conduct within parliament, it deals with both the issue and the behaviour of the MPs outside this building. Let us, we are not the people's MPs only in this tribe, we are not the people's MPs only in this building, we are the MPs and the legitimately elected representatives of the citizens and outside this building and outside this Parliament and the citizens expect us to be both responsible and serious. This is, I'd say, a confirmation that we've learned and that we can change ourselves. Those who do not wish to repent of what they have done and who show that they are not sorry, always remain at the bottom. They always stay in the mud, I can safely say. I think this is our obligation if we want to live in a country where not only will we respect all others, but also in a country where others will respect us. There are great temptations ahead of Serbia, and this is not a chance and it is not an opportunity for political demagogy, it is not an opportunity for politics, but an opportunity to make a common contribution, as legitimately elected representatives of citizens. This is a new time, it's not a referendum question, we're not pleading for and against, but the need to change the culture of work, the need to change the culture of life. It is hypocritical to say what could be heard during the past days on account of the ethical code, an important document, that this is an attempt to limit freedom and expression and that this is some kind of political court to threaten MPs to think differently. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so we want a democratic debate, we want a democratic confrontation of opinions, an argumentable democratic debate, but not force of force, but force of arguments. The MP, we have said this many times so far, is not as strong as he is physically strong, so he can bring a whistle here into parliament or beat into the parliamentary benches, the MP is as strong as his arguments are. Ethics code, what a colleague of JS said, the heritage of truth, as a fundamental value, so I guess it's true and the interest of all of us. Such a finding at the expense of the ethical code is true just as true and that the reason for the boycott of parliament in the previous assembly was because someone wanted to prevent democratic debate and democratic conflict of opinion. Does anyone believe that? No, the reason Parliament's boycott in the previous meeting was just the opposite. We've been waiting all along to hear what the alternative is. We didn't hear her. The reason for the boycott of parliament was a lack of readiness for a democratic debate and a democratic exchange of views, as one part of the opposition was not ready to show its strength through such a reasoned debate, but rather showed something else. A kind of political anemicism and a kind of political impotence. For us, the key question today, when we talk about the ethical code, why hasn't the ethical code been adopted in the previous period of time? We've been working on almost two calls and we've had an almost finalized document. It's not adopted. Our position, the ruling coalition's position was clear, so we want the ethical code, but we wanted to do what the consensus is, because when we talk about the ethical code, when we talk about the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, about adopting a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it must not and should not be a reflection of the current political moment, but it should be achieved as broadly as possible. One universal model should be made, a universal approach that will be acceptable to some of the next parliamentary majority, and not every parliamentary majority to bring a new ethical code and to bring a new Rules of Procedure on Labour. Remember in 2000, Mr. Atlagic remembers in 2000. Nothing was good then because it was red, neither was the Rules of Procedure, and they would have been better off if they had left the Rules of Procedure behind since 2000, because this Rules of Procedure had introduced both responsibility and seriousness in the work. He insisted that there be 126 MPs in the hall at any moment, and every violation of the Rules of Procedure was made known at the same time. So it is quite clear that if we create one retrospective and go back, why was it not for someone to be interested in adopting an ethical code, and then they could not bring a stone into the Assembly, so they could not physically enter into the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia, so that they could not physically attack the President of the Administrative Committee or physically attack MPs who only wanted to be responsible, seriously do their job or try violently to enter the National Assembly, so who has ever at any time banned any MP from entering the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? So, lack of political power, lack of political influence, lack of ideas, lack of programme leads to the most primitive behavior that can be characterized as violent and violent behavior, leading to a vocabulary that has long gone beyond the limits of political frameworks. Neither is politics, nor is this the essence of the existence of politics, and this must not be a norm of social behaviour in Serbia. Here's a chance for all of us to fight it together, and this isn't just political problems, it's moral imperatives. Those who have defined themselves for this journey, for a different path, did not enjoy the fruits, but the thorn. We wanted to help them, they didn't understand us, we wanted to help them by bringing the election laws down to 3%, we wanted to make a representative pattern of public opinion here in parliament, we wanted to bring the policy back to parliament, we brought Parliament back to life, and we said very clearly -- politics should be run in parliament, not on the street. They couldn't reach that 3%, they didn't have the courage or the strength to participate in these parliamentary elections. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the key word when we talk about the work of Parliament, the key word...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1980	Mr. Milicevic, since you promised to speak for 10 minutes... (Jorge Milicevic: But I have 20.) You have 20, but Vice President Orlic said when it's voting day and at what time, I would ask you to leave it after the vote, to now hold a vote on the previous points. (Jorge Milicevic: If you'll allow me five minutes, I'd be done.) All right, I'm afraid it won't be five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1981	I'll finish. It seems to me that it is a key issue when we talk about the work of Parliament – courtesy. Competence is something we must give to the state and its citizens. Roosevelt said that jurisdiction is the most practical way to conduct politics, while at the same time being a framework for society as a whole. Definitely in different ways we look at the word and the meaning of the word courtesy. We are talking about the need to get out of public discourse all negatively, anything that could characterize as violence, to have normal and decent communication, to have a normal and decent parliament. This ruling coalition has been acting, not in words, to show that it cares about decency, but also respecting the principle of responsibility. They didn't run away from responsibility, they didn't hide mistakes, they didn't spread lies to cover up anyone's mess. So that is the essence of decency. Fair work, be responsible for your mistakes, have responsibility for what's been done. It's important to have strength and courage, to admit the mistake and accept the consequences for these mistakes. Serbia's kind of rude divisions are not needed at this time and all this has been a serious progress on the political scene of Serbia, where for years, absolutely no one has been responsible for anything and absolutely no one is guilty of anything. We should not only be representatives of political parties, and we should not be representatives of citizens alone, but we should be an example for the whole society. The goal of coming to power without a vote in Serbia is definitely not going to pass. In the elections, citizens made clear what they think of political parties, what they think of the election lists. This parliament is the voice of the people and at the very end, President, I will say, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we do not want to discriminate on anyone. We respect the rights of national minorities. In this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I don't think it was a practice before, but you have two vice presidents from the ranks of national minorities, we have parliamentary groups that chair the National Assembly, we have parliamentary groups of national minorities, they have a natural threshold, not a necessary censorship of 3%, but also national minorities have to know one thing, that they have to respect the Constitution and the law of the state in which we live. How to respond at the very end to all those negative tendencies and phenomena, therefore, to the attempt to minimise and in the most negative context to present Parliament's work in the next period of time. Every comment should be taken as a compliment and we should continue to do as we have done from the moment of constitution to today. So, responsibly, seriously, committed, in the best interests of the citizens, to make parliament what it is today in the next period, and this is a symbol of both democracy and efficiency and transparency and public in the work. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1982	Thank you. I apologize for interrupting not to use for 20 minutes, but for voting. Vice President Orlic announced that the voting day will be at this time. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, quorum exists if most of the total number of MPs are present, and please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. Thank you. The application of the electronic system has shown that there are 182 MPs present at this time, i.e. that most of the total number is present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since we are now moving on to a decision on election decisions, i.e. the termination of functions, these are points 10 to 18 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2) and Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority is doing most of the votes of all the MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. Dot ten. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Dot eleven. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the role of the member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. Total 184, for – 184. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Twelve points. Proposal for a decision on the election of a president and a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I'm putting it to a vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 184, for – 183, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. It's the thirteenth point. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors and from the law school professor's office as a whole. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. Total 184, for – 184. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Dot fourteen. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the High Council of Judges, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 184, for – 183, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Dot 15. Before we go to the vote on this item of the agenda, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, which reads: “In the course of the search at the meeting of the committee responsible and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials under Article 1, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. On the proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not challenged, decides in general, by public vote. “ In line with these provisions, I would like to put to the vote a proposal to elect for President of the General Court in Ivanjica, Judge of the General Court in Ivanjic, whose proposal was challenged by MP Milos Terzic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 184, for – five, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the majority of votes Snezana Bjelogrlic as the president of the basic court in Ivanjica. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court without a disputed candidate, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total 184, for – 184. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision, in general. Otherwise, when it comes to this proposal which has been disputed, it is not a dispute that I understand, it is a matter of procedural issues, so that it does not turn out to be a problem in public, but simply because the incompatibility of the function to which it was chosen with this seat of the president of the court that she applied to before the election came. That was the basic problem. It's the 16th point. Before we go to the vote on this agenda point, I remind you of the provisions I just read, it's a challenge of some candidate from the list. Accordingly, I would like to put the motion to elect Zlatoje Ankic, judge of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Milos Terzic, as president of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 184 did not vote 184. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Zlatoj Ankic as president of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court without a disputed candidate, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total 184, for – 184. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. It's the 17th point. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total 184, for – 184. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The eighteenth point. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon and the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total 184, for – 184. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have finished voting on agenda points from 10th to 18th. Before I take a break, I just want to remind you that we're gonna... What? (Jorge Milicevic: Continue? No, you can't go on now, because MPs have a break. You see how it looks when someone abuses me for being the president of the assembly, but it's not working out for him. I just want to remind you one more time, since we agreed on it at the College, and it's good to know, because of your time and at all the activities you have, we're going to have a break from 14 to 15 hours like we do every day, we're going to continue the debate on the code of conduct of the MPs. This debate will continue and tomorrow morning, firstly there will be, as you know, explanations, i.e. asking questions, and after how many MPs remain to participate and in the debate and there will be a vote on all the other points of the agenda that we have not voted on. So tomorrow, we're going to finish our practical work, probably up to 14 hours, and that's what we promised to do because, as you know, one part of our citizens of the Catholic faith celebrates Christmas. In that sense, there's something that... We won't be working tomorrow afternoon and Friday. On Saturday we continue to work, and almost certainly we haven't scheduled yet, but we will have meetings on Sunday and Monday and Tuesday, because Tuesday we close and finish our regular session at 2400 hours. Now I'm taking an hour off. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the debate. The next one checked in with Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1984	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about an important topic of the ethical code in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before I move on to the subject, I want to refer to Mr. Djordj Milicevic, who said minority communities must respect the constitution. All citizens, citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia must respect the Constitution. I don't think anything was said on purpose, but because of the discourse and the definitions, that's what I want to say for two reasons. First, because it implies that minority communities don't respect the Constitution, which is not true. The other thing is that the Constitution must respect all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and whether or not anyone likes it, it is absolutely not important. Of course, the Constitution is not a perfect act and it is subject to changes, which is, among other things, my position, but while all citizens and citizens living in the Republic of Serbia must respect that act. When we talk about the code, there are key words, in my opinion, courtesy, but, among other things, political correctness. It's something you can't learn the day that citizens support you in the election. It's the first thing you bring from your house, from your family. That what you don't want to be done to you, you don't even do to other people. So each of us now, if we wanted to, could just stick his finger in someone else's eye and when we talk about collectiveities as nations to run a variety of historical issues, to deal with history or to review history or interpret history in our own way. Also, in relation to political entities, between parties we can push our fingers into each other and deal with each other, also by returning to the past, by analysing what a who is when and how he worked, etc. That's what decent, cultural people don't do anyway. Also, in human relations, we can deal with it. So when we talk about the code of conduct, the key thing is, we're going to adopt it, we're going to vote for it. I'm very sorry that we have to adopt this because someone is asking us to, because it is understood that when a man gets a mandate, when he enters parliament, he is perfectly clear on how he should behave and that all the standards of conduct he had until then have to raise them to a higher level, because he has a responsibility for the given word, especially in this honorable House, to the greatest representative body. As for everything that's been done in this House, I don't want to go back much, but we have witnessed that things have happened here, that security has reacted, that people have brought stones or stones, that they've been throwing shoes at each other. It is something that certainly did not serve us at that time, and in this assembly of parliament, it was not an honor. What I disagree with, and what I want to get a picture of in public, is that for some reason this Parliament's call has a problem with legitimacy, which is absolutely not true. Citizens went out and voted for parties in free elections, for MPs they thought were supposed to represent, and today we are here. I am glad that this Parliament's assembly has no problem when it comes to discipline and certain political correctness. Also, I do not agree with the behaviour of individual MPs who, pointing out certain flags, wanted to attract attention. I'm talking about that political correctness. Each of us has its own political option, has press conferences, has the party's premises, has enough space to express his political position. This House in which we are in, through conversion, through discussion, through argument, there is plenty of room for everyone to express their position and to say what he represents, fully respecting the opinion of the other and different, and when it comes to a different political approach and when it comes to different national commitment. How much the Justice and Reconciliation Party pays attention to the return of morals to politics also says that the name of our party is the Justice and Reconciliation Party. Our party's leader, Muamer Zukorlic, has repeatedly here in the Assembly and, in other public talks, pointed out that the purpose, among other things, of our policy-making, is to return ethics to politics. When are we going to have a fully responsible and fair administration, state administration and local self-government? When we produce such a human resource, we have people like that. When are we gonna have faster management? When we have more capable men in those positions. And when we talk to the directors of large domestic and foreign companies, when we talk within our political options, we realize that the greatest value our society and our community has, every society and every community, is actually human resources and that we need to devote ourselves. This code that we're talking about today and that we're about to adopt tomorrow is certainly important, but it's more important than seeing what our children learn in schools, what our children learn in our homes, how we raise our children and generations to come. When we do, it will no longer matter whether we have a Rules of Procedure in Parliament or whether we have a code that defines the way we behave and which is still a devastating way of sanctioning. What is also important on behalf of our party is the Justice and Reconciliation Party. So, reconciliation is important, not only among us people here, but mostly towards the peoples, especially here where we live in the Western Balkans among the political options. It is important that we do not bring the acuity into the political discourse because the near past teaches us very well that the hard words of the responsible places have been even the introduction to wars. We will certainly support the adoption of this code. What I'm saying is that we now live at one point where we have one general vulgarization of society. It doesn't just happen here in parliament and in local parliaments, it's simply the product of the moment we live. When we open daily newspapers, we look at television, you simply have one inflation and vulgarization, and then it is impossible for Parliament as one of the most representative bodies of citizens to spare all of it. So it's very important that we have one domination of positive news over negative. We know that the news, the reading sells the best negative news. However, we thus promote one negative energy, one negative thinking in society. For this reason, we will very rarely hear positive news today, news such as the example that police officer Ivan Milojevic in Novi Pazar saved a human being by quick and responsible action. We've all heard what happened there, that we've had a mob, a gunfight, but we're a little bit remembered by this man's name. It's this vulgarization of the society I'm talking about and where, among other things, we need to send a message that this is not the way to do it. Also, we had actions, human actions at the moment and now that our society and our state and all citizens and the medical sector are struggling with Kovid 19, with the pandemic of that virus, that the diaspora is from our country, and especially I have to say from the area from which I come from Sandzak, for every home of health and hospital they received a donation in terms of medical equipment, an X-ray machine, an ambulance transporter. That's positive news we can't unfortunately find in the media. This code is very important to us, but I want to point out that neither this nor the previous congregations are any better nor worse than the congregations we have in both the EU and the Western world. And there happens that people at some point in the debate cross a line called political correctness. We can also analyze the presidents and the most powerful states and see how they address the media or how they address women in politics. I am proud of the behavior of a huge number of colleagues in this Assembly but also of the behaviour of the largest state officials and I think that we have a much more tolerance and a much better relationship in relation to some previous year in public discourse both in parliament and in the government. In voting day, we will vote to adopt this code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1985	Thank you. Djordje Milicevic, on what basis did you answer? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1986	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Samir mentioned me by name and last name. Of course I had my reasons when I was talking about respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I didn't think that my colleague Samir had a reason to be recognized. Speaking of which, I don't think he did it on purpose, but since he mentioned it, I want to explain. I have spoken of this many times here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Each of us is at the moment when the mandates have been signed, and the oath includes respect for the Constitution and that we will work in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia. The constitution says Serbia is unity and indivisible. And then it is unthinkable for me that the presidents, as president of the MP groups of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, go, say, to Pristina and send flammable messages to the government of the Republic of Serbia, only because the incidents that wanted to challenge here in parliament and to draw attention to the public have failed, because the president came across a threshold of tolerance and debate continued in a democratic spirit. So, what they have is a sense of less value, that's their problem. Serbia does not want to discriminate against anyone, and their discrimination against representatives of their national community is their issue. I have no problem personally with the integrity of these MPs, but I have a serious problem with what they say in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have made that clear, and I will always draw attention when someone says that there is a Serbian flag running freely in Gracanica. That was my reason for saying that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1987	Thank you. Mr. Tandir, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1988	Thank you, Mr. President. I mentioned a respected colleague just for the reason we don't have generalization. So, if someone from any nation violates the Constitution or any law, there are institutions of this country that should respond in accordance with the Constitution and the law. But this emphasis I have made clear, so minority communities in the Republic of Serbia need to know, I think that minority communities know, I know that as a member of the minority community, you know that, and there are no ethnic laws, thank God, in this country that separate us, simply, and I didn't think that you were thinking something malicious, but just because of the discourse and the citizens and citizens who watch us the Constitution and the Law of the Republic of Serbia should respect everyone, and if there are some who don't respect us, you should name and say that the political option, these people, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1989	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nevena Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1990	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We already have the long-awaited proposal for a decision to adopt the codes of conduct of the MPs. Although the adoption of the code has been pending for a number of years due to disagreements and obstructions by opposition MPs since 2014, the Code itself has not been adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Code contains a detailed set of ethical rules that define a clear framework within which MPs must carry out their activities, contribute to strengthening political credibility and, as a formal document, provide clear guidance on the acceptable and unacceptable behaviour of MPs, and contributes to the creation of a political environment that is based, above all, on a proper, transparent, on the fair and correct behaviour of the MPs. The adoption of codes of conduct of MPs is also expected, given that Serbia is on a European path, in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia, and is working intensively to apply European standards and to bring our principles, regulations and laws in line with EU laws. The Code of Conduct of People's MPs is adopted with the aim of raising the ethical standards of MPs to one higher level, increasing the confidence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in parliament and disrespecting the values contained in the code directly undermines the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Code contains basic principles, general ethical values and rules of conduct which all of us MPs must adhere to in our work in relation to other MPs, institutions and society. It covers the public of work, supervision of the application of the Code, monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Code and measures in the event of an infringement of the same. In this regard, we all made a solemn oath at the time of our entry into office of the People's Parliament, and on this occasion we have pledged to perform and act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure, in the future, in accordance with the Code of Conduct of People's MPs and all other applicable legal acts. In that sense, all of us at all times must bear in mind that we are MPs, that we are legitimately elected representatives of citizens and that we are here because of them, that we are in direct and direct contact with them both in the MPial offices and in the stands and in other places of public gathering always at the service of our citizens. Their ideas, their suggestions and their suggestions we must affirm before the competent working bodies. That's exactly what this code contains. The Code provides that the MP is obliged to regularly maintain open ties with society and to co-operate with all representatives of society. One of the basic principles is the principle of advocacy for the general interest, which implies that MPs in their work will perform and advocate public interest, for the interests of the nation and the citizens who represent, without any desire to satisfy any personal, financial or material interests for themselves, their neighbour or any other person. This practically means that the personal, material, interest of the group or interest of the political party to which the MP belongs must not be above the public interest. There must be no discrimination on any basis and an MP must have the same relationship with everyone in his performance. This means that the Code contains respect for human rights and prohibits the invocation of both gender and gender and national and religious membership and political commitment in defence of relevant arguments, and we need to perform without any incurring to personal and private life. It is predicted that each MP must refrain from using confidential information that comes when performing this function also in order to achieve personal benefit to himself or his loved ones. What is very important and what we all need to pay particular attention to is respect for the general ethical values. It is, above all, the truth as a fundamental value, then justice and honesty, impartiality and responsibility, integrity, openness and accessibility. All of us MPs, by our own personal example, must be an example of the ethical behavior of the bearer of any public function. The Code also implies that we avoid the use of words, gestures or other acts that may be offensive, which offends the human reputation and dignity, but also offensive and inappropriate statements that offend Parliament's reputation. We are obliged not to use mobile phones or other means, not just mobile phones, in a way that interferes with the flow of the National Assembly. The codex also prohibits the introduction of features and symbols of political parties or foreign states, except for the symbolic features of political parties, which we witnessed in previous days. I think all of us must bear in mind that we are MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is an independent and sovereign state and which is on the European path. The Code also stipulates that the elected representatives will not benefit from the privilege of performing a parliamentary function in order to achieve their own direct or indirect interests and that they will respect all applicable regulations relating to the restriction of the simultaneous performance of two or more incompatible functions. If any of us have a direct or indirect personal interest in the subject or in the matter under discussion or decision in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is required to notify it by written or oral means by the President of the National Assembly before the start of the debate or before the start of the decision. The Code obliges us to refrain from all activities that can be characterized as bribery and obliges us to actively engage in all forms of corruption detection. The Code also provides that MPs will not receive gifts except for convenient, symbolic, protocol gifts and we are obliged to inform the President of the National Assembly. We must in no way encourage other people to violate the provisions of this code and respectfully we must treat all employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia without discrimination. In addition, we must not ask others to take certain activities in order to achieve our interests. The MP is obliged to compensate for all the material damage that he purposely or out of the extreme he has done to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What is important is that all of us are expected to perform in our work publicly and encourage any openness to the public. Control over the application of the Code has a Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, and if there is any indication of a violation of the Code and of the President of the National Assembly, and all of us MPs can file a report to the committee responsible on the violation of the Code, where the Committee decides on further activities, whether the application is complete or incomplete, whether there is a certificate of breach of the provisions of the Code, whether the applicant is established or not. The Committee is making a decision on the violation of the code and the non-compliance with the codes sets out a warning or public notice that will be highlighted on the 30-day website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Parliament's MP at all times and in every place, which means both inside and outside parliament, must act in a way that maintains the reputation and dignity of this high house and that it affects the preservation of Parliament's spirit by its activities. All of this has only been further inspired by me to look back at the actions and activities that we have witnessed in the previous period and on those MPs and officials whose behaviour and how it conflicts with the provisions of this code. Let's start with spokeswoman Dragana Gilas Marinika Tepic, who, although she has changed as many as six parties so far, has never had such a wealthy boss, who himself admitted to owning 25m euros in real estate and whose 619 million have already heard of the whole world, but since he's a man who's not spoken of, I'm only interested in one thing. Is he a man not just spoken of on the Ada Bridge, or is he a man not spoken of in relation to every corruption affair that relates to his name? In that case, we would have to have a court that would only work for him and would give us solutions that we are forbidden to mention the character and the work of that man, but to return to Marinika Tepic. In the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it works by putting its signature on paper and falsely accusing the Serbian people of genocide in Srebrenica, only I don't know which political party was in its sphere of interest at the time? She gained her knowledge and experience leaving her party colleagues and party associates immediately after the election failures, and will certainly remain remembered as the most unsuccessful regional secretary. This is where we come to the part relating to the use and abuse of functions in order to achieve personal and private interests. As a rural secretary for youth and sport, she purposely spent budgets in order to achieve personal and private interests, and thus the inspection found that she financed a fitness club that practically does not exist, because at the address of the mentioned fitness club there is a private house in which there is no gym. Is this the principle of advocating for the general interest, for the public interest, for the interests of the nation, for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? She left the empty register and the most successful of our young athletes without a reward, and here we come to the part concerning discrimination, the equal treatment of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but therefore she gave money to those clubs that are in her sphere of interest, even though these clubs played in the concrete leagues. Furthermore, when we talk about the corrupt family in opposition circles, everything is again tied to the spokesperson Dragan Gilas. One of her first associates in the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, a drug dealer and a man who was previously known to the police, was in charge of moving a journalist out of Panchev, because the man for Marinika Tepic is unsuitable. That's how she works in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What we haven't known since the exact date of their acquaintance and how much he profited in the period when she was the circuit secretary for youth and sport. Today, the woman intercepts people around Serbia, falls into circles of numerous factories, public enterprises, to spread some false information, because she is an expert on everything. A woman holds press conferences outside the hospital as people fight for their lives. When it comes to the Kovid hospital in Krusevec, she placed false information and placed photos of the hospital that was built the day after the hospital was officially opened. She's not the only one. The Vuk Jeremic will certainly remain remembered for the primitiveism and reverse of the influence on public life and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The man who took advantage of the position of the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia to lobby himself as president of the UN Assembly and did nothing in the public interest, but used the position exclusively for personal promotion and to illegally raise funds for his Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development, an organisation that received threem euros in donations, and that the donors were hidden from the public. Is that the principle of advocacy for general interest? We could view this as the principle of advocacy for general interest only by the account of Miroslav Aleksic, who, when taking away dollars from the dinars, gets a result in the euros and who was ready to come to the home of the National Assembly only to sign up and receive travel expenses without entering and discussing with the other MPs, but only occasionally use the microphone in the hall of the National Assembly for the Placement of Nonsense and for personal promotion. As president of the municipality of Trstenik, when he heard there were signs of construction of the Moravia Corridor, he bought parcels and planted orchards. I guess he thought he'd profit later from selling those same parcels. Incidentally, while he was president of Tristenik municipality, his father-in-law and mother-in-law were on the supervisory and management board of a factory in Tristenik. That's how opposition politicians work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party is working and building in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Just at this point, despite the whole coronary virus situation, we have as many as four construction sites, four infrastructure projects. It's working on the Moravia Corridor, it's a Ruma-Shabac-Loznica highway, Požega-Preljina and Kuzmin-Sremska Raca highway. No project has given up. Neither has the reconstruction of the Infectious Clinic, whose work is expected to be completed in April of next year. What is very important is that no investor has retreated or given up on the planned investment. In addition to the whole coronary virus situation, we raise our salaries, raise our pensions, we never have a higher budget for capital investments. The 2021 budget envisions an increase in pensions of 5.9%, an increase in public sector wages of 5%, an increase in minimum earnings of 6.6% and a parallel with a reduction in earnings burden of 0.6%, which is very significant for employers, an increase in the non-taxable income from 16.300 to 18300. If I refer only to what has been done in the past 10 days in the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that the SNS is working in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – a cornerstone for the new Japanese company in India "Tojo Tyres", a one-time aid has been paid to pensioners of 5,000 dinars, a new Kovid hospital in Krusevec, which was built in record time in just four months and a state-owned centre in Kragujevac, thanks to which Serbia becomes a country with the most modern database. When it comes to the protection of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the aim is to combat, above all, all activities and actions of all the MPs who are destroying the dignity of this high house. We must never allow ourselves to be rekindled by events such as insults, such as humiliation, demeaning, and verbal violence in this high home. This is a place where it is exclusively spoken by the power of arguments and facts. The dignity of this high house is marred when Bosko Obradovic falls in here with a whistle, when the flag hits the doors of the National Assembly, when he physically faces the MPs, when he physically attacks the president of the National Assembly, when he shoots the MPs with a computer mouse, when he rips off their messengers, when he brings a stone into this high house. Let's remember Sasha Radulovic who used to come here with a guitar. As the MPs stood next to the anthem “God of Justice” because of the end of the autumn session, he sang and played with the song“ The Fall of Government” in the hall of the National Assembly. Let's remember what Srdian Nogo was doing. He invited people to enter this high house violently. Is it to preserve the dignity of this high house? To get to work, because this is our job, comes with paintball rifles and slings, and to invite citizens of the Republic of Serbia to come to the shooting of future MPs? The House of the National Assembly must be a place where difficult and reasoned debates take place, where debates and debates are discussed and debated, not a barter where insults, swears, spits, and shouts, and we must stand in the way. This is inappropriate and inadmissible in parliament, in the highest legislative body of a state. The adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs will put an end to this, and SNS MPs will certainly support the proposed code of conduct of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1991	Thank you. We move on to the MPs by signing up for the word. The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1992	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SDPS, I welcome the decision to discuss the code of conduct of the MPs. We talked about it a long time ago, but there was no political will to discuss it and bring it here. I am absolutely sure that we will bring this code tomorrow and that it will be one rule of conduct. In my speech, I would like to refer to another part of our behaviour, which is public space in the Republic of Serbia. I can say that indeed many red lines have been crossed. Nothing is sacred in Serbia anymore. You can attack everything – family, children, parents, faith, commitment, anything you can attack without having consequences for it. There are no consequences and simply our public space becomes a polluted space. Why? Because we've lost a lot of criteria, because individuals think they can afford everything, talk about everything and not have any consequences for it. And one more thing. In our country, in Serbia, the truth doesn't seem to matter anymore. Often the goal is to show the lie as truth and the truth as a lie. I can give you countless examples. Even yesterday I saw an example where I was an actor of one event, I watched a report on one television, I won't mention it, I won't mention any television, but I saw what unprofessionalism means, what it means to do and what it wants to do – that what's good, to show up as bad, and that citizens have the knowledge that we don't know anything and that others know better than us and that they do better than we do. You know, many values in one society can't always be prescribed by one act. This code of conduct can only be one guide, not that we think that just by reading this, we're going to act like one. Many values are acquired in the family, in school, by raising themselves, by believing in yourself. You know, if we underestimate knowledge, underestimate honesty, truth, modesty, responsibility, respect, and relativity, when we come into a situation where truth is no longer true, that lie becomes truth, then man loses all the criteria, doesn't know how to behave. I welcome the decision to start by ourselves from our Parliament, which would be people's way of saying, that we are cleaning up in our own backyard. But not only do we speak in words, but we show that both by deed and by personal example. You know, a personal example is very important. Secondly, this code is also the task we have in order to join the European Union and as you know, the European Union is not quite as arranged and is not one flower garden, but it is also the best thing that exists and therefore Serbia needs to and must become a member of the EU, and it is the Social Democratic Party of Serbia that really supports this strategic goal, and this time I stress - Serbia's strategic goal is to become part of the EU. Why? This is to respect the standards that apply in the EU. We do not know when we will become a member of the EU. We will also talk in a few days about an EU report that will be on the agenda of our Assembly, but the standards of the EU, which respects, must also be Serbia's standards. Serbia is otherwise in the EU, and that fact itself says that we have done a lot here. When I say that the EU is not always unique, I have attended many discussions in the European Parliament. You know, there are various radical groups, left and right orientations. There you hear a lot of things, very unpleasant, very rude, but it's a minority. They can say that, but there's no fertile soil in Europe to bring it back to life, that it's flourishing and that it's progressing. Most of them are democratic there. The position of the majority is respected and these values are respected, true values, truths, justice, honesty, accountability, integrity. I belong to a group of people who are not for bans. I belong to a group of people who respect freedom. But I also said the other day - freedom is not unlimited. My freedom lasts until I threaten someone else. Respect the other one. Respect the differences. That's exactly what this code of ours gives us and gives us the opportunity to act that way. National MPs are elected by Serbian citizens. And why are they picking them? They're chosen to protect their interests. There is something else that is very important, which sometimes we MPs forget, more often and only represent party interests. We have state interests. The state of Serbia is the one that must be very important to us, and sometimes we have to put some narrow party views in the other plan, and put the interests of the citizens of Serbia first in the first place, the state interests. We were elected by the citizens of Serbia today. Tomorrow they may not choose us, we may not be MPs tomorrow, and we will not be in any function. But when we finish our mandates, we have to stand in front of the mirror and say -- let's see what we did for our country, for the state of Serbia, did we put some of the basic things first? We're talking about a lot of things, a lot of issues being introduced. But our current state interest is fighting Kovid – 19. That's where we all have to unite, no matter how different we think about things, no matter how different they look. But all our strengths, our capacities, our skills, we must use to win over Kovid - 19. You know, we often use strong words. Let's just let the strong talk go. The results remain behind us. Jake's words go away. Our poet himself said: "Kill me strong word." Don't say strong words. Let's see what remains behind us, what we did to improve Serbia, what we built, what remains behind us. And one more thing. MPs are public figures. Our actions set an example for others. I'm in favor of setting a personal example. You know, you can't learn something, you can't learn like a parrot and you can repeat it. You must have in your personality, in your education, in your integrity of that value. If you respect your values, then you will act. I must stress that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for this code, with pleasure. But there's one more thing to point out. We've done it before, but in the future, we'll prove by personal example what it means to behave responsibly, what it means to respect another. We are ready to hear different opinions, but through conversation, arguments, facts, to come up with the best solution, because in the diversity of opinions comes the best solution. And for the state of Serbia, for all of us, for the citizens of Serbia, it is very important that we have good solutions, because these good solutions take a long time. Bad solutions show up very quickly as bad solutions. I stress, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and its parliamentary group will always, with a personal example, with dignity, defend democracy, freedom, this home, and that is what I must stress, that, always with arguments, in a decent debate, with respect for another, with respect for diversity, we will come to the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1993	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1994	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I think it is a good thing that we are in a position today to discuss the code of conduct of the MPs and should first and foremost commend the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, which finally put this text at the disposal of the Assembly to discuss. I say "finally", because there was obviously no political will to find such a document and be the subject of talks at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is good to discuss the content of this document, but also to discuss what the National Assembly today is and what the National Assembly means in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. I mention this because Article 6 of this Code states that the MP has an obligation to behave in a way that will strengthen the integrity of the National Assembly and public trust in the National Assembly, which will not compromise the reputation of the National Assembly and the MPs, but as good as this document is, however much the MPs are keeping an eye on the content of its provisions, we must also bear in mind one thing that older colleagues, MPs know from the experience they have doing in this esteemed home, that one thing that we are saying here in the National Assembly, and another thing is what will appear in the media of Serbia. You know, you can kill yourself by explaining the content of a law, talking about the good or the bad sides of some solutions to try to show what those solutions mean to people's lives, to talk about the results in one way or another, it's all a question of the ability of the MP and the way of his expression, but you can't know what he's going to show up and whether he's ever going to show up. I'm saying this because I think it's good for us to talk about the code of conduct of the MPs, but also to talk about the National Assembly. It is my impression that due to the results of the elections that were held several months ago and due to the composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it should be explicitly said that in one part of the public, this National Assembly is trying to prove itself incompetent, as if it were bad, that the National Assembly has no composition that, in my opinion, I say this elite work, so on. The public, or who takes the right to interpret everything in a way that suits them, presents such things about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, I've been an MP for many years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I think I have the moral right to give one assessment of the work of Parliament. I was also an MP in councils from 2001 to 2008, and I attended certain things that are not worthy of MPs and unworthy of parliament as an institution, but I never heard that parliament was then criticised in a way that is trying to criticise today. One logical question arises, Mr. President – is the bigger problem in which the MP will express a thought, a position of his own, or is it a problem, stealing from the post-2000 vote? You know, we have two big ones, if I may say affairs in parliament that are never over. One vote, the elderly remembers, the vote on the Labour Law, when even Turkey voted to secure the one or two MPs, so that the Labour Law would be voted and that was left behind, covered by dust, and another vote was held at any time on the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I know that, because at the time I was president of the SPS parliamentary group, and I have to tell you that one colleague immediately after the vote pointed out that two of our cards were used to vote in order to choose the governor of the National Bank. I asked for the Rules of Procedure, then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was the president's obligation to submit a list to the head of the parliamentary group within 24 hours of the time of the vote. That list I got after six months. In the meantime, I have, of course, filed criminal charges for abuse of official office, and this criminal report is sitting in a drawer, next to the then president, or the president of the National Assembly, and I am now asking myself and you a question – is it worthy of the behaviour of a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Does this mean the nature of the conduct of the National Assembly? But there were no critical words, except honorable exceptions to what the National Assembly was doing back then. Not to mention that the bearers of these functions did not think to eventually admit it so as to recheck the vote in the Assembly, because the majority of the assembly existed, but there was no good political will. I am saying this because I think it is good that we talk about this code and I think that the exact formulation is set out in the content of this code that it should increase the awareness of the MPs about their work, but together we all need to make an effort for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to raise awareness of the importance of the National Assembly. You know, the National Assembly is a very important authority of government, a legislative authority. I like the National Assembly to tell you, especially for reasons why, in relation to the opinions expressed by one of your fellow Members, the MP, whether or not you agree, you are in a position to react immediately without a statement, without any remote texts, ordered texts or anything else. The good thing is you can just react to every sentence you say right now. I was also in a situation that as a member of our delegation in the Council of Europe, like my colleague, Mijatovic, I attend some meetings in the Council of Europe. Here is our Vice-President Elvira Kovac, who led a Committee on Equality and Water at the Council of Europe, and there you have the opportunity to see what. And then you simply realize that by some word spoken in our Parliament they are too strong or they are pronounced with a certain negative intention. I repeat what I said at the beginning of my presentation, Serbian citizens decide who will sit in this assembly, not someone else, and where we will, if we do not present our position here and some behaviour. It's really unworthy that I'm not defending myself, it's for example, not to mind the other one, I'll start with him, how not to defend the president of my party, when, say, a few years ago, we were counting 250 days ago on the cover pages of some 365-day media, how old he is, so how can you not say in the National Assembly that it's not acceptable or how not to defend the President of the Republic when his family is attacked? I mention it because I was in a situation in 2013, to be attacked, or my family. So where are you going to say, if you don't want to be here? 'Cause I'm sorry others only publish what they want or what someone else tells them they need to publish. The National Assembly is a place to discuss, is a place to talk, is a place where the MP should say what he thinks about both certain phenomena and certain events, about everything that makes the contents of the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We represent the citizens and we perform here on their behalf. If we're not going here, where are we going? I think Article 7 is the essence of this code. It says that the MP personally represents an example of the ethical behaviour of the public function bearers. I have often been in a position to answer questions as to why they are spoken in the National Assembly. I said that's what MPs say who have nothing else to say, MPs who don't know what to say about some law, they resort to a distortion of truth, false statements, harsh statements, insult an individual to draw attention to themselves. It is good that meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are delivered publicly. If the citizens of the Republic of Serbia chose the MPs, then they are in a position to see how the MPs behave, so let them decide what they think about these MPs or the political party they represent, rather than some others. I mean someone else on purpose, because I don't want to mention names so this doesn't turn into some other kind of discussion. Parliament is an important place in the political life of the Republic of Serbia, and we have to look after this people's assembly and take care of it, as we speak of this code as to what and how we say, to realize that it represents not only us, but also the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think a member of the Sixth Code is extremely important because it speaks of ethical values that every MP must respect. These are truth, justice, honesty, impartiality, responsibility, integrity, openness, availability. The MP should always be available to all those who are interested in what he is doing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and answer all questions, because he represents citizens and takes care of the public interest. I must repeat this to the public interest, which is why I also like the fact that certain amendments to the amendment have been made to the provisions of this Code, because some other suggestions of GREC and some other institutions that are committed to improving the work of MPs have been respected. In one word, I think we've done a lot of useful things to raise awareness of the way an MP should perform here, but also to talk about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that I am also interested in the position of Article 3 of the 20th of this Code, which speaks, I quote - the MP must not present the data, the facts, the assessments of the personal or family life of another person who may harm the honor or insult that person. I absolutely agree with this provision of the members, but one logical question is asked, what if some media publishes some information, so the MP quotes it? What if that information isn't correct, then who's incorrect? Is it the media who posted it or the MP who transmitted it? The papers will always call for him to refuse to publish the source of his information, and the MP is making such information available to the public. And is the information correct? We don't know that. Because, rightly, some information, unfortunately, we can only determine in a court procedure and that if you're conducting a litigation on your own, because you know how, I say, I have a rich experience behind me, so I know what it looks like in practice, everyone swears to the public of work, to democracy, to the right, to say and to convey what they want, but it's decided in the way that those who say and manage information at the level when it comes out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think, in one word, that it is good that we have started this conversation today on the code of conduct of the MPs and I think that the Assembly should, that MPs in the National Assembly should talk in a way that aphirms both the way of their work and the National Assembly and the topics that are on the agenda, always with the possibility of giving their comment on some social phenomena, of course, citing the source, if they use some other information, citing the source of these data, in one word to be willing to respond to citizens for what the citizens are interested in, because beyond this sphere, beyond this hall, we have communication within our political party, when someone is interested in our work and these citizens also deserve to be properly represented. In one word, I think it's a good document and the SPS parliamentary group will support this document on the day we vote. I just want to add one more thing, I don't know if you've had a chance to look at the European Commission's report, there's a part about parliament, we'll talk about it on Sunday or Monday, and it says that parliament has improved its work. I'm saying this because a major shift has really been made in advance, and I think we're going to best show that the citizens were right, when they brought their own court to the elections, that is, to put in all those future citizens who want to participate in the elections. There would end my presentation, I would not want to enter political assessments about who, as well as how the public of Serbia represents, not here in the National Assembly, because for those for whom citizens have estimated that they should be there, they are there, but you see, there are others who represent themselves as political, important political factors, and they do not have the support of citizens, about them another time. In any case, I think it's a good document and we're going to support this document from the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1995	Thank you, Professor Žarko Obradovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we're too critical of our National Assembly. Following other congregations, there are far greater conflicts and far greater incidents than there are with us. If it's an obligation to adopt this code, I'll vote for it. First, I will correct a colleague, not from Turkey, but from Thessaloniki for the Labour Act, and the governor was voted from Bodrum. She was a late actress. So it was true, as it was true, that on that occasion the MP who later became the police minister, although not present, was present with his spirit card. Also, Bojan Pajtic was involved in the affair, but somehow he got away with it. Also, some colleagues who did not belong to the ruling majority came down and thus gave a quorum when voting for the governor. But there were far more serious incidents. I remember bringing out people where I suggested that security be particularly rewarded, given that it was the people's MPs who weighed 150 kilos, who didn't want to... What? (Alexander Martinovic: Live scales. Fortunately, they were alive. So there were MPs who didn't give the jeep. When the police come to confiscate the jeep, they lie down and don't give a jeep. Touch everywhere, but don't get in the jeep. Of all the MPs from these calls, here is Mr. Arsic, so he can testify. There were MPs carrying furniture, paintings, etc. I remember the sacred leg, today's sacred leg in India. When Goran Jesic decorated the victory of the democratic forces, on October 5th bringing the foot of the chair from this National Assembly to the centre of Indjije. Many things have happened, and my experience that because of my language and my irony, I have often been the target of various attacks. I remember that when I was a little bit of an opposition, I remember the code when the ruling majority at the time, because I was a little ironic, more embarrassing for them, then they came down to you, or there was a speaker – respected viewers, you who later joined the program, spoke Mirko Marjanović and then said, and then the speaker reads as long as you were speaking and it was a very strange code of conduct at the time. I remember the last events. I remember a lady from Haiki, as the MP group was called, "the rasulović companies", I remember when she was passing by me and Atlagic, playing "Arjačka's banners", she used the crowd, pinched me, it was blue so when I came home, I watched it by chance, because a woman can interpret it in various ways. Here, Mr. Atlagic is a witness. I also remember a lady who was very nice later and who was very critical of Radulovic and his behaviour, who sang along with him. Not only did she sing, but they came here once and she spit on me, her colleague cursed my dead mother. But I forgot all about my political opponents. I also remember some people who, for the sake of the exact information that I made, were looking for me in the MPs clubs to beat me up, because, well, my God, I did tell the truth, but that truth about "Bleek," or I don't know by whom, Mr. Martinovic, that doesn't fit at that point in time with their claims, so I made a lot of mistakes, no matter what I told the truth, I was the subject of demand for MP clubs to find me in my office and beat me up. Even the paper published it. No one's been punished. In the end, I expected that after this attack on the steps of the National Assembly, where 15 people are quite suddenly, without any debate attacking you by raising some uprising, I expected to end my career on that staircase. This man had previously brought in a rock that was a rock for cabbage. For me, the greater sin was that he declared the cabbage stone a sacred Kosovo stone, than that stone was a danger to the people's messengers who were there. I also remember his mark - a yellow vest, I remember his attack, transparents, etc. I remember that masseuse that kept wearing some inscriptions, etc. I remember it all alive. I expected him and a fellow leg to set up a machine gun and thus prevent us from entering the National Assembly. Before the election, they organized some events, and all the MPs reminded us that our mandate had expired, and they tried to physically prevent me from entering, because, behold, they estimated that our mandate had expired because of the crown and that they had the right to apply force over us. I think there are too many stories about MPs. She's the Anti-Corruption Agency. Well, what can you colleagues steal here in parliament, but honestly tell me? In my office, I've got some papers, two files and two pens. I don't understand that in the code, how are we going to make material use of it? Maybe there's a paper clip, so I'm not wrong about my soul. There's a lot of that talk about some MPs' corruption. Guys, I don't know how I can be corrupt and what can I do? Neither are we involved in public procurement, nor are we in tenders, etc. Give a little more to the government, the agencies, the Department of Administration, give it a little bit to these protectors. We're just hitting ourselves. Em, at least we're paid, the one at the agency has three times our salary. I keep saying, the code of conduct should be the following, that we have entered, and I haven't written the amendment, that we have entered to pay those whom we appoint and choose cannot be greater than our salary. Well, if we can do without a driver, without a secretary, etc., work for a fee without a flat-rate flat, of 85,000-90,000 dinars, let the gentlemen of the agency do it. For example, we choose members of the REM Council, they don't have the need to come, whether three or four times a year come, and they have receipts of 130,000 dinars up and down. So far more than the MPs. No one sees them. More Solak if I give something extra to the individual members, then they're only in the plus. We just beat ourselves up. I think we're going a little too far. If the code of conduct is an obligation, I will look to be less ironic so as not to be subject to some punishment, because the penalties appear to be dragonish. Please, did you throw out that fine? It's, you know, touch me everywhere, and don't touch me in your pocket. So, we who have been punished, and Mr. Martinovic here, we know how painful that can be. Democracy can't be pushed from the outside, it has to grow from the inside. It's a mature process, and we're not gonna be able to fix it with different codes. Those who are powerless and who are in some minority, I know by themselves, then they will become more impertinent in their behavior and be incidents still, regardless of the code we adopt. So democracy can't even get out. These are our political opponents who boycotted this parliament, and that's the code of conduct. You don't come to work for two years, and you get paid. Now, I'm asking, here, even this code isn't supposed to. So allowed, Jesic was not three years old. Okay, he studied for 13 years, and he probably learned in those studies that he could skip a few years, and then he didn't come to work for three years, and he was getting paid. How much we have received every day, even for days, and Mr Martinović, Orlic and Mr Atlagic know because most of them are fortunate, we come days when there is no session and when we are not paid for travel expenses, etc. Now, imagine what a code of conduct is when someone boycotts work, and receives a salary for three years like those who have worked hard in this House and are invisible, the people forget them, etc., and if we make a mistake then we are the subject of a conviction of the press, etc. The code of conduct of journalists exists, so I ask how much does it cost? You know, I sued the media and I won't anymore, because it's not worth it. So, I sued, and I got some media four times, but they didn't take that news off once, and it's still going on and on and on. After four or five years, I've been sentenced to 40,000 dinars. Just enough to add something to the lawyer, to pay. Four years is slow and more. And Mr. Gilas, he has a softer soul. When he sues, it ends in three months, a judicial verdict, 300,000, 400,000 etc. Now, in recent times, they've made a decision, that same senior court where it took me four years to determine the truth, and when the truth was found the media still left in electronic form, that's what's going on, so now you can't even write about Gilas anymore, whether it's true, whether it's not true. The assumption is innocence, until someone determines, some court won't, it's court censorship, it's almost unrecorded. Is that a code of conduct? Why doesn't the code of conduct apply to society? Why doesn't it apply to judges? Let me ask you, where is the code of conduct when the judge breaks the rule, is it so, Mr. Martinovic, that he can only go to the media with the permission of the elder, the supposed, that he can't particularly go to political shows? The moment the judge enters and politically comments on the show, Olje Bećkovic, some political phenomena, I think it's over with an independent judiciary and the judge should be resolved. There's no code of conduct for judges, no code of conduct for prosecutors. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What's the code of conduct when it was obvious on the cameras that a man was misbehaving violently? Where's the code of conduct for the D.A.? We have in the Assembly and in front of the Assembly the status of an official, elected, appointed. That's what the law says. Then when someone attacks you and beats you, then you get it, says the lower D.A. What's the code to estimate that it was violent behavior like he attacked me out there in the stadium, not at the entrance to the National Assembly, at the workplace, where we have official status? Em was released from criminal charges, so when you file criminal charges against him, the D.A. says there's not enough evidence, and it's over. You can personally prosecute him, although it was obvious that this violent behavior existed in the National Assembly itself. Well, when he attacks you, then it qualify as lower. Hey, don't, this is Bostic, now that we're selected for that famous reform, since we're independent of this government, but we're not from the previous one, now we're going to requalified into some minor crime. Well, I'm asking, is there a code of conduct for prosecutors, for judges, for agencies, say Rodoljub Shabic, who was found there crawling around Belgrade and no one, who invented that he was attacked, who sued me twice for the same thing, and faked a certain tweet to get me punished? Is there a code of conduct? He's got three times my salary. A little, a little bit, they hired some of their fellow employees. That's what the chairman of the Administrative Board knows. Do they have any codes of conduct? Is there a code of conduct to use official cars as they use? Is there a code of conduct for local authorities, which often behave in ways they shouldn't behave? If anything applies to MPs, in my opinion, it should also apply to the committees, to the MPs of the provinces, etc. Anyway, if we're going to adopt the code of conduct, I'm up for it, but I'm afraid there might be no abuse in the future. It may be that MPs are too careful. There is a saying: “I often repented when I spoke, but I never repented when I kept quiet. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1997	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. We're glad you're healthy and in the mood. The next word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1998	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Martinovic, as a pronoun of this important decision on the code of conduct of MPs in the Serbian Parliament and outside it, the code or rule of conduct in the civilized world is something to teach you when you're a kid, and if you're not lucky to have a grandmother, then you're taught by parents, kindergarten teachers, teaching staff and building a person who grows up as raised or untrained. I can't accept from this distance what could come from all this, and that's that we're some group of people who behave outside the code and somehow not according to what's been brought up. Is there a leak? Yes, of course, there is. Is it wise to make one of these decisions? Absolutely. Since I am speaking, as Vice-President of the Assembly has announced, as deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group, my colleagues before me have said that we will vote in favour of a decision on the code of conduct of the MPs, but I fully agree, and I was pleased to listen to all my predecessors, Professor. Žarko Obradovica, who spoke about the experiences of 15 and 20 years ago, and also a colleague of Rističević, who asked here, I think, key questions. I agree that the MPs of the Serbian Parliament should be the first to adopt a code of conduct, and let it be a model for everyone else to act on, because I think that the public discourse must get some other direction in relation to the one it currently has. Branislav Nusic was a librarian at the National Assembly of Serbia. They say that once upon a time, in an effect, a certain lady was told she was a cow. She sued him, got him in court, he paid his fine, and then asked the judge: "Sorry, Mr. Judge, is it allowed for a cow to say that he is a lady? “ The judge said, “Yes. ” He left the courtroom and said: “Goodbye, ma’am. ” So our education or education is a fundamental element. The confidence of Serbian citizens who received each of us individually or every list that deserved citizens' trust to be part of Serbia's current assembly was very transparent, we were all there by name and last name. We all had the right not to be the choice of someone, and we probably weren't, but one serious percentage showed us trust, even in this part where they expect us to act civilizedly and represent the citizens who chose us. The code we will bring is also important because of all future meetings of the Serbian Parliament. I wish he was some kind of Holy Scriptures, and he won't be, and the Rules of Procedure in this room has been brutally broken countless times in years behind us. So everything goes from man to man. I also like that, according to the recommendation, first of all to GRECO, we implemented some things through amendments to the code of conduct of MPs, but I also agree that nothing more tragic in the Serbian Parliament has been heard, which is moreover, we have seen a lot in other parliaments and in the environment, and in Europe. So, I just can't accept the fact that, God forbid, we're the worst. Maybe we're not great, maybe we don't like each other. I personally never, even use those terms that could be humiliating, offensive, I couldn't go back to my family with one such statement, just not allowed. On the other hand, I can understand the effect of certain things being said. Some of them heard it here, I'm not going back, I'd have something to remember, because this isn't my first term, but it's very important to bring in one of these acts, right now, there's been a few attempts, and we're on the task force, I think, and I heard it as a finding. You know, when you want to do something, you find a way, when you don't, you usually find an excuse. Is this document perfect? Probably not, he'll suffer some adjustments and changes over time, and it's natural to do so. Nothing can last forever. Could a form like this have been adopted five years ago, and 10 years ago, and 15 years ago, yes, I'm sure it was, it wasn't a good will, it was easier to argue on a subject than to agree on something that should be the primary document, so let's see that practice shows us that it's not good. I've accepted suggestions that criminal policy, when it comes to the code, should not be too harsh and are right, otherwise I'd probably have the ambition to be stricter than what's standing here right now, and it says it's going to be a MP for 30 days, let's not read it now, on several occasions it's mentioned. For me, these are fines compared to one of the representatives of the people, but there is a Rules of Procedure that could certainly replace it and which could replace it if that happens. So that I wouldn't be someone who's now who knows how rigorous in that criminal policy, I won't go on about it. I'm saying again, I've accepted the suggestion that the code itself doesn't treat someone who knows how high the fines are, but it is somewhere that money is the only thing that we recognize, the only thing that, after all, hurts us. I am afraid that 1% of people who participate in public life and now, indeed, I am not only talking about MPs who will treat this code, but also about participants in public life. We can't act like someone's allowed everything, and someone's not allowed anything. I will vote with special pleasure for the code of conduct of the MPs. I will be absolutely glad to have belonged to a council that has made one such document, one such decision but I will especially look forward to it if this decision is the basis for all the participants in Serbia's public life, all those numbered who belong to the executive or even public life to act in harmony, so why not with this code, if others do not have time and will. If this is a legislative body, if this is the largest organ under the Constitution, then it's natural for it to be a model. Here, by voting for the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, let's set up a code of conduct in the state of Serbia on various topics, including the outbursts that we had here, which irritated us. In that sense, what has already been said, I will repeat that there would be little time left for my distinguished colleague Jelica, the SPS parliamentary group, each will vote for the code of conduct of the MPs, again I say, with special satisfaction, because it is always nice to participate in the adoption of documents that show Serbia both as better and as better, and promise that tomorrow will be better than yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u1999	Thank you, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. Indeed, anyone who has read the Code of Conduct and the amendment accepted by the Proposer cannot have greater objection to this document. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2000	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, are before us today the proposal for a decision to adopt the Code of Members of the People and as someone who has been in this High House since 2014, the MP, I am proud that we, hopefully, will adopt this proposal tomorrow. As a member of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs since the beginning of my term of office, more precisely since 2014, I have witnessed what has been happening in this high House, but also on the Committee itself. As my colleague Martinovic, the proposer of this proposal, has said, there has been a lot going on in the past few years, and I think that the peak of the vulgarisation of politics was from 2016 to 2020, when all those MPs sitting in the benches across the street, and they were trying to vulgarise politics, I think, lead to the maximum. I think this was really necessary, to finally bring this code of conduct and that it will be known to be appreciated, to behave with dignity in this high house, because it certainly deserves it. What I'm trying to say is that in the past few years, more specifically from 2014, we've been trying to adopt the code of conduct here, and that even at the meetings of the Administrative Committee from 2014 to 2016, we've had a few sessions, where we thought we would be at the height of adopting the code of conduct, but somehow we've always encountered brakes on the sides of those who were then in opposition lines. None of them condemned the behavior and savagery of this hall, none of them ever condemned the twisting of the president's hand, none of them condemned the incursion of violence in the cabinet of the president of the Assembly, especially the women, the MPs, were attacked, insulted, where some colleagues were not exactly appointed, but they came in a drunk state and acted as though they were in a pub, not in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is all about them, but it is not easy to sit here, to consider important laws, to act responsibly towards citizens who have contributed with a voice to be there and to represent them, and to adopt the budget for 2016, 2017, in the middle of the session, and to offend us all in the middle of the night. Older colleagues have also experienced being spit out, being insulted. As counterpart Risticevic said, and with bruises to go to their homes, but I guess the citizens see it all and follow it on RTS transmissions, and they know that they value such and punishments in the elections, so we know where they are and they are, but that doesn't stop them from going wild anymore. They tried to violently enter this home a few months ago, so they broke down the door of entry into the National Assembly with the flag of the Republic of Serbia, which should be sacred. We know for ourselves, when they had legitimate reminders here and they were supposed to be away from the session, they were grasping the flag, crowding that same flag and acting out of their minds. Sometimes as a psychiatrist, I really wondered if they were being courteous or just acting crazy, but obviously there's everything there is. As a member of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, I was also a witness when they attacked a colleague of Martinovic, but today it is not clear to me, and I made my own statement to the prosecution when the bully Bosko Obradovic attacked a man and hit him with a mouse, that the prosecution never reacted and condemned the procedure and took him where he should be, which is to answer for what he was doing. There was a lot going on when these MPs from the Dveri group, I would call them the "beast" group, acting extremely abnormal. And this Srdjan Nogo, who threatened President Vukic a few months ago and often called him the ugliest names, to murder. He did everything and everything here, but, unfortunately, those organs that need to react, they didn't react, they still don't react. I would add that if we had the chance to seem to me just when we adopted the 2016 budget, a group of MPs came here as if they were in a bar, with guitars, with caps, performing some performances, I guess because they, when they formed a list of MPs, were gathering here in the park across the street. So there was an ad -- whoever wants to be a People's MP, come in and be, but that's how they went and that's where they are now. It's showing again that he can't force anything. That's how these alliances get together, whether they're for Serbia or whatever, because they seem to me by their example, they haven't learned anything, they're also getting together in the local environments that way. What makes me particularly happy is that, in the context of this decision on the code of conduct of MPs, it is said that we are the service of citizens and that we have to act, to talk to citizens. I would like to point out that my colleagues and I from Kruševec have been in constant contact with the citizens for many years and that we have inherited this from the man who is responsible for the fact that we in Kruševec have achieved all this, but because of what we do for the town of Kraševec and the Rasinski district and at all for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, we are very often all of us from this group and the victims and, let me say, the target of the attack of all those who have done nothing, and these are our neighbours from Tristenik, pagans, I must say once again that we, Miroslav Aleksic, his friend Marinika Tepic and others, and here for a moment have already managed to criticise the speech of my colleague Neven Đurić when he is talking about the code, but I can say once again that all these years since 2014 we have been here, we are trying to introduce a line in this very high home and we have come back to the way to the way to our friends, because we have been able to do so much, because of the rest. I support the decision to adopt this code and I am proud to contribute myself to proclaiming this decision, because certainly all of us sitting here, who belong to the SNS, want this home to be a place of dialogue, and certainly not what they represent, which is violence, vulgarisation, lynching and everything else. That's why in voting day, I'm happy to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2001	I thank Dr. Barisic. The next National MP is Jelica Sretenovic. I would like to point out that you have in mind that your MP group has remained at your disposal for exactly six minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2002	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, here we have come to the adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs and I will look back and comment briefly on only two members and two positions. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 states that the MP should be equal to all citizens, without any discrimination on age, nationality, ethnicity, language, race, political and religious beliefs, disability and diversity. Article 4 addresses the MP in this case, but I'd say he's talking to every man. It would be ideal for every man to fight for the right of every man, to respect individuality and diversity, to cultivate a collective spirit. We're a collective here who has the responsibility to contribute to a better life. Even if we differ in attitudes and thinking, we need to respect each other. If we do not respect others, we cannot expect to be respected and cannot expect what we say to be taken seriously. Article 8, paragraph 4, states: “Do not use expressions, words, and gestures that insult or demean human dignity and violate the dignity of the National Assembly. ” Well, is it possible to give this instruction to adults? That should be understood. It's a matter of courtesy. Culture doesn't just mean works of art, it means bonton. Sounds old-fashioned, I know, but it's not bad and it's burning again. It would be nice for this House's assembly to be remembered for its tolerance, respect, constructive discussions and solutions. I hope this code of conduct produces fruit. For the end, it's good news. The mimosas have arrived at the Belgrade markets. They come all the way before and before, like they're trying to warn us to put beauty in our hearts, and throw out anger, anger, and anger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2003	Thank you. The next is National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2004	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to today to conclude that the adoption of an ethical code on the agenda that will declare principles and principles in accordance with which MPs will behave, which will bring us much closer to full membership in the EU. I want to say that it is my pleasure to have the opportunity to hear a lot from older colleagues who are much longer than me and some of my younger colleagues here in parliament. It seems to me that the conclusion will be that the SNS MPs, in fact, will do so in this term, but also in the past terms, were those who knew how to respect the dignity of this House of Commons. Responsibility, integrity, diligence, respect for Parliament's reputation, public-interest behaviour, honesty, abstention from achieving personal interest or financial benefit are certainly the qualities that every MP should have. The legal framework for the adoption of an ethical code is broad and covers first the Constitution governing the selection of MPs, their position and immunity. Then, the Law on the National Assembly, which regulates the rights and duties of the messengers of the people. There is certainly a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which regulates the maintenance of order at the session, but in this respect we can also mention the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which regulates the position of officials, receiving gifts, work, or performing functions in the public interest, etc., as well as the Law on Lobbying relating to the permitted impact on public officials. I would also remind you of a study that we haven't heard much about today, a study done by the National Assembly of 2013 library, and6 on the subject of codes of conduct by Members of the EU. It does not matter at all what happened in 2013 because it is about the principles that must last, which preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Only a few EU countries then adopted the code of conduct of MPs. For our children, Members of the SNS will certainly support the adoption of the Ethics Code, not only because we consider it a step forward towards some parliamentary dialogue, but also because we have shown ourselves many examples that we, above all, take care of the public interest. Aleksandar Vukic first showed that he was ready to put citizens and Serbia's interests first, and in 2014 when he was first ready for fiscal consolidation measures that he knew would have a bad impact on his rating. As now in the fight against the crown, the first was in the procurement of respirators and supporting the health system. I'll remind you that he promised two new hospitals and, behold, we now have two hospitals that are open. We got them in four months. They're open and they've received the first patients. Let's get back to the specifics of the ethical code. Of course, we have everything on the side of some members of the failed opposition. Is it in line with the ethical code that we're going to adopt what I just said - the failed opposition? I think it is, because it's actually just a fact. They left parliament, but they know they're criticizing him. They didn't build hospitals, but they know they're criticizing the construction of hospitals. They did not adopt an ethical code when they had a majority in parliament, and now they know they're criticising it. These days, I've even heard of Dragan Gilas criticizing the adoption of an ethical code. He didn't like it very much, and he talked about it in the past few days on his media, which he's funding, to bring an ethical code to cover everything that's not good in parliament and state. Yes, but not to cover it, but to remove it. I don't think it's appropriate for Sasa Radulovic to play guitar in the O.R., to eat burek and yoghurt, to boast about it on social networks, because what the other one understands is, I guess, only in the elections. It is not appropriate for Bosko Obradovic to bring the stone and with the rest of the family shouts, insults, sings, picks up microphones, physical indignation on the speaker of the Assembly, the flag of Serbia hits the windows of the National Assembly. It is not similar to Srdjan Nogo propagating verbal violence, but also calling for the murder of Aleksandar Vukic and Ana Brnabic. Let's keep it all for now in the past and forever in the past, actually, where it should be. What we still have a chance to see today is probably a great desire for representatives of CRTA and the Open Parliament to be MPs, because they would withdraw the bill of the code, because I quote: "it will become a means of dealing with political indivisibles". So much has already been used up by this dilapidated and trendy commentary of everything that is good and positive, not only for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but for the whole country too, so that I would like them to finally realize their dream, to go to elections, to get 60%, how the SNS gets it, so that they can see if it's easy to work or it's easy to unfounded. With all due respect, many of our political insinuators have remained out of parliament because the censors have not been able to cross, but the SNS has never dealt with anyone, but has gone to elections and won, so our MP group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, support the bill's proposal, because we are fighting for legality in work, we are fighting for ethical values, for the integrity of the National Assembly and, most importantly, for the high degree of confidence of citizens in the Assembly and the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2005	I thank the MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Next is MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2006	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, today, in this debate, the National Assembly should adopt a code of conduct for Members of Parliament. We do this for a number of reasons, and one of them is the process of integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU and the application of European standards. The second one's for example. that the irresponsible conduct of an individual can trigger a verse, although many such irresponsible behaviours are already defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When I hear the word "behavior," so in this syntagma "beloved code", the real association that comes to mind is a bonton. I am glad that my previous colleague Jelica used this word bonton, because bonton marks the rules of good and decent behavior in everyday life, and the purpose of the bonton is to enable an individual to feel comfortable in society, but also not to disturb others, and when in one society the rules of bonton prevail, they become a protection against arrogant and rude people. This is exactly how I started this discussion to refer to yesterday's discussion by JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, who talked about it. Today, there are more and more of these, the least said, rude people, because to show your rudeness to someone, you don't have to be in any more direct communication with them, to be physically present, but on the Internet, you're making even stronger communication than this direct one, which is a public communication that you can much easier to abuse, and it's being abused and it needs the competent authorities to deal with it. On the other hand, when you look at it, it's really hard for any MP to remain immune to any public insults to his account or his family's account through various social networks. On the other hand, given that the code of conduct is an ethical code, and the general ethical values match partly with moral values, and partly with the general values that each individual should possess, the JS parliamentary group will support this draft decision, because every MP here in the National Assembly is bound by truth and justice and justice and honesty. As the National Assembly makes up 250 MPs, the goal of all of us is to defend with our conduct the dignity of this same National Assembly. We also need to know that if one individual violates this code of conduct undermines the reputation of the National Assembly, i.e. All of us together. Our conduct here in the National Assembly and even outside the National Assembly, in addition to the many pressures felt by the MPs, defines many things in our society. Along with the reputation of the National Assembly, there is a reflection that reflects society in general. That is why it is necessary to bring a code like this to show our determination that we want our society to become a decent place where each individual will feel comfortable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2007	Thank you. The next speaker is the National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2008	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac, vice president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, while this discussion of ours continues today and what I can say was that it was a very good and detailed elaborate by the promoter, Professor. Aleksandr Martinovic, on this proposal for a code of conduct of the MPs, we have not even finished the debate honestly, and we already have convictions. Here, I have written down "The House of Human Rights" condemns Martinovic, condemns the Code of Conduct, and that we have not arrived one day to apply it, and, of course, to explain in more detail to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how much it will mean to improve political culture and improve dialogue, both in the National Assembly and in the whole society. It's not about the Code of Conduct, it's about obviously whatever Alexander Martinovic suggested, whatever the SNS suggested, I guess it should be condemned in advance, that it's not good in advance, because some, such as "The House of Human Rights", I expect now to announce "The Women in Black," and so these types of organizations, which will condemn this and say that everything we do here and in Parliament, everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia does is wrong and is not in the interest of citizens, because, to them, it belongs exclusively firstly, exclusive, to manage the state and that they are improving what is called better conditions and a better quality life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But unfortunately for them, and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, support for everything that the SNS does, all that President Aleksandar Vukic is doing is a huge, vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a huge percentage of people who recognize what our president is doing, what our party is doing on a concrete basis, on a daily basis in terms of improving the quality of their lives. It is a great one today that has been posted on the social networks of the President of the Republic, which reminds us all that the last quarter last year, when it comes to the economy and the first quarter of this year we ended up as the first in Europe, but modestly it does not mean that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live better than those of Germany, but it shows that we are making the fastest progress. It shows that there is hope here, that there are enough people here who are dedicated and those people who lead the country with the president that they have both strength and energy and knowledge to exploit all the potentials of this country to make it more modern, to be better and to be fully in the service of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So this code of conduct of the MPs is a document that will be in the service of, in fact, the citizens of our country. One of the most important principles of this Code is that of Mr Martinovic in detail and speaks, is the full condemnation of any attempts at violence, discrimination on any basis, religious, national, level of education, physical appearance, gender, and not to mention how strict we will be, how much we will continue to fight against promoting fascism, anti-Semitism and all of those worst anomalies that unfortunately exist, although we live in the 21st century, everywhere in the world, exist in the country and exist and existed, to the soul, and these phenomena existed in our Parliament. You, vice president of the National Assembly, gave a very inspiring speech this morning and gave an excellent example concerning what may be the cradle of democracy throughout the world, and this is the British Parliament and what the House of Commons did on this issue, but also the House of Commons as the House of Lords, given that in 1996 I heard that the first Code of Conduct of their MPs had been brought in. I will remind the citizens, but also my fellow MPs in one very interesting thing there, when they founded parliament several centuries ago, you saw that since the two parties were being replaced by authorities, conservatives, or Torians and Labourists, the party was left-wing, they sat across from each other. It is an interesting thing where distances sit, at a distance from the length of two swords, so that there is no chance in some fierce, fierce debate between MPs of different ideologies and different thinking of not having a physical conflict, as it was possible at the beginning to carry swords and bring weapons into parliament. Of course, it is a good example and what we want to follow and apply what is good in world practice and to do everything that we do here in Parliament as a majority, given our orientation towards economic development, to the prosperity of our country, to the development of public policies in general, to impose it as one of the key aspects of state development and to impose it as the main value that should be the basis for political work and, of course, for co-operation and the relationship between political parties. It is very difficult to work under conditions, especially that it was very difficult in that previous term, and my colleagues have talked a lot about it when there was violence, when there were physical attacks, but we can see it today and that's why I am personally and surely and my party is very concerned that we will respect this here in parliament, but I am concerned by the public discourse. I'm worried about what happened in some newspaper this morning, I'm asking the camera to look at this, zoom in, film it. Take a look at this cartoon. Look at this attempt to dehumanize the President of the Republic daily, this, I guess, this woman, a journalist from a few days ago and REM member Olivera Zekic, who kneels, who is also a person, as a person, as someone who has the exact same rights as any other citizen of this country, and she tries to dehumanize himself in this way. They're trying to dehumanize entire families and make such a meinstreme in our public and it becomes normal to talk about the President of the Republic that he's a traitor, that he's like this, and to mention his whole family, from a son who's three years old, to parents who are retired, who are older people. And I'd be worried about that, and I'd start by, in any case, joining every initiative that has in mind and that will help stop and start punishing what's called misinformation, with what's called brutal insult and use of public space in the domain not, in order to say it now modern, political correctness, but rather a brutal attempt to deal with political opponents, without any idea, without any suggestion. That there's a proposal, that there's something constructive that would help this country get better and faster out of this crisis that was caused by Kovidom-19, that there are any of these so-called. "opponential politicians" who talk so much, not to say trumpets about how "Belgrade on the Water" is wrong that we built 350km of highway, as it is wrong for Vukic to bring "Tojo" the other day, Japanese to Indjia, that no moment in six years did they influence a foreign investor to come to Serbia, to do something in the field of promotion of the business environment, that someone here in Serbia employs 10, 20 or 50 people, we would be grateful. We would be grateful for that, as most, as a party currently having 66% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would be grateful for the help. They'd be grateful for the constructive criticism of some new proposal for ideological confrontations. Is Washington on water better than "Biograda on Water"? Is it better to have American or Chinese investments and that have more positive effects on our economy, on new employment, on new jobs, on building infrastructure, our education system, our science, our advancement in general? We'd take it as a matter of fact. I am sure that, and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see well, that we have serious people here, starting with Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, who can mate in every area of social life, with all those who consider themselves our political opponents, who have enough knowledge, who have enough competence, but who also have enough fighting to defend this country, defend the reputation of this Parliament, and that their main goal is to modernise this country and to develop it, in terms of the maximum improvement of politics, economy, social rights of citizens, human and minority rights. Everything we've done in the past six years. I want to say that here in Parliament, as far as the citizens could see, we can speak in the language of arguments, in the language of good behavior and respect for political culture and in its highest possible level, according to the highest standards possible. We're nothing different than those parliaments that exist for 50 years, some or more than a hundred years, and I don't want to admit it, and I don't want to make peace with that fact that we don't have a political culture. We're just a political force. The Serbian Progressive Party is a political force that shows what the level of political culture should be, how to fight for its country and how to be ready to work for the benefit of your country and your citizens, along with representatives of the executive government, along with the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, to raise the country's maximum reputation. Today, in 2021, we live in a country that has a reputation and we don't want to let it happen, one of my predecessors was saying, I think Mr Obradovic, that Parliament is constantly being attacked. Well, yes, but parliament is not being attacked for parliament's sake, but parliament is being attacked for Vucic's sake, so that everything that has been done on the agenda of the economy, on the plan of reform, will be derailed and the country's strength. Because there are no other arguments but violence and promotion of everything that is not something that can be led under political struggle. We are as a party, as people, here in parliament, fully prepared for any kind of political struggle and dialogue, but experience teaches us, some of you have participated in these talks under the influence of colleagues from the European Parliament, for tango needs two. And you cannot have a dialogue with someone who condemns dialogue in advance, as these people today have condemned Alexander Martinovic and this proposal for a code of conduct for MPs. That's impossible. You cannot come in a position to manage the state by force and by any other means, except to go out honestly on democratic elections, parliamentary, local, regional and to win the majority support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with your own ideas. I guess it's normal in the 21st century, and it needs to be understood. I hope, in the end, that all those who mean and who promote some other kind and opportunity to reach power, will finally understand that, in the interest of this country and, of course, in their interest. To tell you the truth, it suits us. Their 1% rating, 0.5%, gives us space, because this is the only way that citizens realize how much better we are, how much more successful we are, how much we are focused on results and how willing we are not to respect each other here, but also to respect these colleagues, officials, tenants, cops, all the people in this country, by fighting any kind of discrimination and, of course, by fighting any possibility of corruption or any corrupt aspect of the functioning of any of us here in parliament, so whether a member of the SNS or any other, it's absolutely not important. This is one of the aspects and the continuation of war and the unfavourable fight against corruption announced by then-Prime Minister Vukic in 2014, defining zero tolerance for corruption. And that goes in favor of the lobbying law that we voted here in parliament, where it clearly underlines the line between what lobbying is, what corruption is, what a civil servant can do, what he is allowed to do, what he is not allowed to do. What I can tell both my colleagues and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that we will work here to improve dialogue, work for the benefit of our country, make as many laws as possible and improve legislation so that our citizens live better, so that they have bigger salaries, so that our young people have a bigger choice when they are employed, that they have a bigger choice where to school, how to school, how to, how to, in which institutions. We will continue to work on enabling all possible human freedoms and rights for our citizens and we are open to talking to everyone. It can be very clear how good it is, how good co-operation can be on good, quality grounds and foundations and with national minorities here in Serbia, but also with countries in the environment and in the whole world who want to co-operate, who want and who can respect and respect Serbia as an equal and sovereign country. This is essentially what will determine the behaviour and parliament and us MPs in the coming period. Of course, in addition to wanting and learning, to apply some good practice to those who may be in some part more advanced than we are, as it is almost said that, for example, the Montenegrin Parliament, or their assembly, has accepted the literally identical text of this code of conduct, which I hope will be adopted by us tomorrow. So we're not running away from applying some other practice from the European Parliament, from the American Congress, the Senate, the British Parliament. This country has shown with President Vukic that it is open, this country has shown that we want to learn and that we do not have and do not want to have apriors of any kind. We create friends, we are once again a nation and a country that wins, which has successes on both domestic and international terms. We are a country that thanks to activities and changes so-called. In order for Vukic to say that in May-Set, we have become from one loser, from a country that has become accustomed to losing for decades both in geopolitical and economic terms, and in any other way, we have become a country that economically strengthens daily, which politically strengthens daily, which strengthens on the social plan daily. We have become a country with results, and as a parliament, as SNS, we will continue this path by President Vukic, given that we are working in the highest interest of this state and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2009	I thank the People's MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. Next up is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2010	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, as you can see, we have the opportunity to discuss documents that are exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament and reports when we talk about institutions that we call independent and regulatory, but also about documents, such as today's document that we need to adopt, which is a code, which speaks of and regulates the behaviour of Members of Parliament in the framework of work in this institution. We have had opportunities to discuss all MPs to hear all the survivors of the MPs in the course of their work in different mandates and in the various compositions of this National Assembly. We have had the opportunity to see that hate speech is very easy to turn from verbal violence to physical violence, and that is what I think the SNS has been working on is simply such a principle of functioning in the Serbian Parliament cannot exist. We have appealed as MPs that the judiciary must react, that the prosecution must react to these phenomena in society, until it passes into this physical violence, and that is exactly the part where we talk about hate speech, because respect for this code is actually an improvement of the work of the MPs who are seen in the democratisation of society, right through a public spoken word. And that hate speech that today in society is being shed somewhere and directed towards Alexander Vukic by Gilas and all of his satellites who once led this country, had the chance to democratisation this society in an economic way, but in this social and political way, it simply showed that this is not possible with people who don't understand the essence of the democratisation of society at all. Why do I say you don't get it? I'll remind you that we started with this document, which is the code we're dealing with in 2015, right, Mr. Martinovic? One working group was created, where there were participants and opposition parties in the task force, and they entered as MPs of a single Democratic Party list, and then suddenly formed five parliamentary groups, or five different factions of the Democratic Party, were different names and members of that working group, and the attempt was to bring a joint document bearing the name – the code of conduct of the MPs, and of course immediately at the beginning they clashed because of the simple principle we are talking about, and that is the question – who proposes this document, was raised as the biggest problem. Why are the ruling party's representatives proposing this was in fact presented by one of the biggest stumbling blocks of the document. At that time, Mr Babic was the president of the working group and it was always said that there were recommendations to international organisations called GRECO, which is an integral part of the practical Council of Europe and which simply according to these recommendations must be respected. Why are we talking today about a code like this that says it looks like a code that will adopt, I don't know, the parliament whether Montenegro or some other countries, we're talking about precisely because there are international standards that apply to many countries that are members of the Council of Europe. And now, in 1949, the Council of Europe and the Assembly of Serbia was founded, i.e. as a delegation of the Council of Europe Assembly in 2003, means that today we are talking that we are part of a large family that was formed after the Second World War, in 1949, which last year marked 70 years of existence and as a member of the Council of Europe Assembly and MPs who are involved in its work simply had the opportunity to meet the recommendations of GREC, i.e. an international organisation consisting of 50 Member States, means these 47 plus Kyrgyzstan, plus the United States, which are dealing with precisely standards that apply, not only to Members of the people, but to all public officials, and to some standards that cover anti-corruption measures, laws and in line with those laws. Why am I saying this? Because since 2015, when one Prime Minister of the Council of Europe first addressed the Council of Europe, according to the Council of Europe Assembly, it was Mr. Aleksandar Vukic when he had the right to give his presentation on Serbia's progress exactly when it came to human rights, democracy and the rule of law, then simple documents were brought, not only for Serbia, but also for other countries where Serbia was headed to democratisation of society and with its specific recommendations. Thirteen recommendations we had were simply one step at a time until today. And the part where we talk about the new Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and when we talk about the new Law on lobbyists and when we talk about the behavior and the laws that we have adopted in terms of functioning and the prosecution, and the judiciary, and today they are simply left, after the only three recommendations, one refers to this code that has not been fulfilled, and two of them relate to the constitutional changes that we have otherwise received as a proposal here, which is the very way the judges choose and what concerns the change in the election of judges as defined by the Constitution so far. For this we need constitutional changes and much bigger steps with which we need a general consensus in society and, of course, the final answer, that is the response of citizens to such solutions. Why am I saying this? Because when we talk about the code of conduct of MPs, then we say that this is one document that defines both principles and rules, and ethical values, and the public in the work, and the measures that simply refer to the part when it comes to the launch of certain procedures, and disrespect for this code. It has already appeared in public a conviction that speaks - there is no need to go to financial penalties, and they do not exist in this code. So, the public must know that we are introducing the principle of the public court here, contempt to the public for those MPs who do not adhere to the code. Let's try to bring this institute to the public to condemn everything that's beyond this rule of conduct. My colleagues who said they don't understand why this code is being passed, because they think that the ethical code is quite enough for behavior, on the one hand I totally understand why they have this point, because somewhere we all go from ourselves to saying what we learned at home and what Bonton means, these are unwritten rules. Each of us, not only in the Serbian Parliament, but in his work, should respect his family. But, you know, life has denied us all of that and because of that in politics, as you can see, since 2012, we've been through a lot and as MPs, as people. You can see that simply what happens in society, this speech of hatred and the attack on people who really want to change society in that part, to move borders, not only in this economic part, as we have really managed to do, but also in this democratic part, when it comes to human rights and the drivers of many changes in people's behaviour, it does not correspond to those who simply led the state by 2012 in such a way that it showed complete irresponsibility to the citizens who chose and to themselves. Because these parties, which were founded years ago, have now completely disappeared, have scattered into five-six parties of individuals who simply want to continue to rule Serbia. Today we actually have the biggest problem with these individuals, because it's obvious that in the elections they can't get more than 1%, 2%, 3%, they can't get more than 3%. We here in the Assembly had to cut the price, change the electoral law, accept decisions that are simply considered normal to comply with the electoral rules, to allow some individuals to go with their movements and the parties they have formed, and not even have those 10,000 signatures that are needed to have a party, to go to the polls, because they realized that even those 10,000 signatures couldn't win the election. Today, we have the biggest problem in society that individuals hold in individual media, portals, social networks, on which they simply present that hate speech daily. As you can see, the border is gone, the sky is the limit. They start with personal insults, so when they see that they simply suffer political officials and authorities for the sake of public improvement, for the betterment of society, for the betterment of our children, that the laws that we bring results, first of all through economic reforms and through the reform of society, and when it comes to human rights, and when it comes to changing legislation, then they don't stick to it, but they go to insult children, brothers, fathers, mothers. So what we have today, the first time they feel this infirmity in insulting the family of Alexander Vukic is actually bringing up the mother. So far we haven't had that example, that it's just going directly to the pillar of the family, and that pillar of the family is the mother. A mother who is 78 years old, who is respected and whose mother, not only is the president of the state, is something that is in our society for respect. I never think a politician in Serbia has experienced such an attack on his own mother. We now have a complete disenfranchisement of politics, devising hate speech, because it simply wants to be shown -- if I can't destroy my political opponent, then I'm going to attack his environment, then I'm going to attack his entire family, not presupposing it's a mother, a father, a child, a brother, or anyone else. That's what we in society have to condemn today. Worst of all, I'm going back to the beginning, which is what we meant to mean that bonton simply doesn't exist now in society anymore, because today we have a problem with simply showing our contempt and judgment to people who give themselves the right to say something like this. Something that was unimaginable in Serbia in society today simply becomes everyday. How do you get out and how to get in the way of something? We, in fact, need to make this document one way that not only the Serbian parliament should go, but the whole public. All institutions should have a certain code of conduct, from the executive authority, to the judiciary, to local self-government, to all state authorities. We, in fact, need to pioneer for a really long way to deliver good results today, and you have good results that in the future of Serbia, when young people take our places anywhere in institutions in Serbia should know what they cannot do. They must not behave like those on social networks, who insult the families of their insolents, they must not appeal, that hate speech wants to encourage violence, not just verbally, but to grow physically. We had it on a case of trespassing here during the pandemic, during rigorous measures that were meant to save people's lives. Also, they can't wear anything that's allowed in this society. Nothing is allowed and nothing is understood. That's why we're bringing this code today, and obviously that's true for many of the countries that make the rules of conduct, to say what is allowed and what is not allowed. Why am I saying this? Because respect for all the recommendations, when we talk about international organisations and when we talk about GRECO, you will see when the part comes to discussions on amendments adopted on this document, shows that simply the results of these recommendations and those countries that applied them show that they do not have a problem with this degree of hate speech and verbal violence, because the state reacts immediately because the prosecution reacts immediately, because the executive authority reacts immediately. But with this, as long as there are those who have double arches for their politics and for the politics of Serbian citizens, and cannot win in the elections support for it, as long as it exists, we simply won't be able to get out of problems like the problem on social networks, such as raising young people and nothing can be understood. We have to write everything. If we write about the code of this and accept that there simply must be rules by which MPs act, then we do so primarily for the respect of the citizens who have chosen us, for the respect of the institutions and for the respect of what is true for our future Serbia. GRECO is an international organisation, of course, and Serbia has been a member of the organisation since 1 April 2003, which in its reports made these recommendations that Serbia has adopted step by step in its legislation. I think that this ethical code, which will also include the proposals that have been made through the amendments, which is an ethics commission, then confidential counselling, personnel training, precise division of competences and compliance with those laws that we have passed here in the Serbian Parliament, shows that we are bringing really the most modern acts that should be adopted in the Serbian Parliament. All those who have given their opinion in public and disagree with this document show that they have not read this document at all, that they have not even read the recommendations of international organisations. Otherwise, they keep writing that they are unhappy and that their human rights are threatened. You know what, in those international organizations, there are people who really do the profession and laugh at their letters that they get from both Gilas and those of his colleagues who have individual media, who have their own parties, who don't have voters or those who can support them in the next election. We would really like to see the next election sitting here in the benches representatives of some opposition parties who know what they are doing, because it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. We hope that there will indeed be some parties in the next elections with whom SNS will be able to face programmes for Serbia's future and indeed for all our children who will go towards the democratisation of society, as all modern EU countries do. We have also shown our economic results, and for God's sakes and this, we will soon have these and representatives of the European Parliament, where the President of Parliament will be able to give a full list of what we have done when it comes to human rights and the democratisation of society, and we will have something to brag about and we will have what to say that we have done, despite those who write on social networks because they know nothing and follow nothing at all. In Voting Day, we will support this proposal, Mr. Martinovic, with pleasure and a great honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2011	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2012	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have appeared on the agenda item relating to the Code of Conduct proposal, more specifically the proposal for a code of conduct of MPs. Only the adoption of the code is of paramount importance, not only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia but also for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it strengthens citizens' confidence in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I see the essence of the adoption of this code and the very code in Article 7 which says - the MP personally represents an example of the ethical behaviour of the public function bearer. However, I would particularly point out the position of Article 3. The proposal for a code that says - the MP makes constant and direct contact with the citizens. This is of paramount importance because this attitude highlights exactly what SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic have been behind the back for years and what they have been doing for years. Only by working on the ground and in direct communication with citizens of the Republic of Serbia can this first-hand information be obtained on the basis that we can see if we are on the right track, how we are doing and what it is necessary to do to further improve our work. But, of course, there is always that, but this code applies exclusively to MPs, as colleagues said, such as Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, and counterpart Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, and that I do not now list the other colleagues and colleagues who mentioned it, but essentially this is very important. The question is less the same. What happens to those people who deal with politics or politics, maybe we better call it that, who are not MPs, who are not acting in accordance with this code again? Also, it is a very important question of what happens to constant attacks not only on Alexander Vukic, but also on his family, attacks on officials, attacks on SNS members, on their families, but also on our young colleagues and colleagues, young leaders who have completed the Academy of Young SNS leaders. They say some people - slowly. We're used to being attacked by President Vukic, we're used to attacking his family. They say -- young people are young, there's time they'll learn, they'll get used to it, but I don't think we should get used to it. I believe and believe that we are all in agreement on this matter that the family is sacred and it doesn't matter whether it's a family of a functioner or whether it's a family of a person who isn't a functioner. What's the difference? Well, there's no difference. Family is family, family is sacred, family is not touched, period. I think we need to deal with this problem seriously in the next period. Of course, in the day of voting, as colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support this proposal of the Code concerning, as we have said to the MPs, but at the same time I hope that we will address these issues and these problems that I have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2013	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2014	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are before the adoption of a very important act, the code of conduct of MPs or the ethical code of conduct as popularly called and I would like to express my personal satisfaction that I was a member of the Working Party in several terms, i.e. calling on the National Assembly. We, who have been in parliamentary benches a little longer, know we're on this subject. Chairman, he's been talking for a long time. Several mandates were said that the public long awaited the adoption of this code, and I am glad that the adoption of the code of ethics will mark this very assembly of the National Assembly. Why is it important that we adopt this code? Because by doing so, we will further strengthen parliamentary integrity, therefore, the integrity of parliamentary functions, the confidence of citizens in the National Assembly, but also the rule of law. I do not have to mention that everything this code provides is fully in line with international standards, examples of good parliamentary practice, and we have heard from the heads of our parliamentary group that there have been examples of others taking over the draft of this ethical code and that we will also contribute to strengthening, or protecting public interest. I will not look back for some earlier years, some earlier mandates, some former parliamentary majority who were full of democracy, democratic principles, democratic fluids, European values, European standards, rule of law, etc., and had no idea of adopting such an act. I will not refer to any parliamentary groups that have, in previous meetings, declared and were in principle for the adoption of such an ethical code, but, at some point, magically gave up participation in working groups for the drafting of this act, even attacked the drafting of an ethical code, which has also been spoken of by the head of our parliamentary group, which led to the adoption of this code being left behind for this convocation. In the past term, as you know, it was impossible to talk about this subject, or to start this issue, if you remember what it looked like, with various elements that almost every day caused various incidents, unrare and physical incidents, and remember, a lot of colleagues today mentioned taxingly some of these incidents and physical attacks on the then president of the Assembly, Maju Gojkovic, and a physical attack on the MPs, a physical attack on the president of the then Administrative Committee, Aleksandr Martinović, at the session of the Administrative Committee, a physical attack on fellow Marijan Risticevic, remember the introduction of stone into the National Assembly, remember the introduction of guitars into the National Assembly, and remember the whole series of brutal insults, swearing and verbal violence. All of this condition, to say the adoption of one such act, which will raise the level of decency, raise the level of political culture in Serbia, raise the reputation of the National Assembly, and what is most important, raise the level of confidence of citizens in the institutions of the system, that is, in this case, the National Assembly. I am extremely pleased that a complete political or full political consensus has been reached on this matter, which has been represented by representatives of all parliamentary groups in the working group for the drafting of this code, and has been unanimously adopted at the session of the Administrative Committee. I am convinced that the product of adopting this code will be that we will no longer bear witness in the future, to say, to the various unfavorable scenes, the painful and the unfavorable scenes, that there will be no stone, guitar and anything else that we have seen in some past and that there will be no more senseless insults and other unkind scenes, as I have said. I'm willing to agree in part with the observation that this code may have had to be adopted before, but that's where I'd have applied, or, I'd have relied on an old saying that says, the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The next best time is now. I am proud that this assembly will adopt this code and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2015	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veruljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnesses these days, months, and even a year ago that a very negative picture is being created among Serbian citizens about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, about the MPs, at all, but I must say that this did not begin during the government of SNS and Alexander Vukic, it began much earlier, approximately, very soon after the five-octobaric changes. The regime, I guess in the absence of results, such as road construction, schools, hospitals, factory openings, had to offer citizens something to entertain themselves about their misery, while losing their jobs socially, economically in any other way failed. Thus began the collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly. When the former regime lost power, again, I guess in the absence of a political programme, political ideas, lack of citizens' trust in the elections, it is in every way trying to undermine the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly, as well as each MP individually. This code has been written proposed by the Management Board. Maybe that should have been done before, but I don't really know if it would have been the result we're expecting from a document like this. He certainly gives a particular better picture and a better opportunity for MPs to work. However, the dignity of the National Assembly is not a matter of the President of the National Assembly, the chairman, but of each of us MPs who participate in the work of the National Assembly, and that is in many ways regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but the code, as it is, gives a certain little greater authority for the behaviour of the MPs outside the session and outside the building of the National Assembly. That's definitely one step forward. Why am I saying this code should be brought in early? Here, whatever part of this code I can read, I can find an example of how the former regime treated both the National Assembly and the dignity of the MP and the importance of the function it performs at all. Here, I'll go somewhere maybe from the middle. In carrying out its parliamentary post, the MP is obliged to treat employees with respect, without prejudice. In carrying out its parliamentary post, the MP must not compromise the principle of political neutrality of employees. Do you know what that looked like at the time of Dragan Gilas and his government? Employees at the National Assembly who refused to sign the DS approach were expelled from their offices, given one chair to sit in the halls of the National Assembly. Imagine a violation of the dignity of an ordinary man by the bearers of power? It's the radio regime of Dragan Gilas. When it became too brutal for both their stomachs and their eyes, they found a compromise solution, employees who did not want to sign the DS approach moved to the elevator house. Let me explain what it is. A small room with a drive unit of elevators, an electric motor, clutches, cables, whatever I know. This was how he treated employees in the National Assembly the regime of Dragan Gilas. Mr. Odalovich, these people are still working in the National Assembly and you know that's exactly what I'm saying. We can talk about that too. Here is a quote, and I would like all state authorities to bring either some of their codes or to insert some of their sublegal acts, but imagine that in the Statute of the City of Belgrade, it said: "The mayor Dragan Gilas is obliged to manage and use material and financial resources that are entrusted to him in the exercise of mayoral office and to prevent their illegal availability. “ Was that possible? Not only was it not possible to write it. No, and if it was written, it wasn't possible to stick to it. That was the former regime. Or, Article 8 - People’s MP is obliged to be polite and to treat citizens with due respect and respect, to respect other MPs, not to encourage hatred and violence. To remind my colleagues who are a little older, and to tell these young and Serbian citizens, so from these assembly benches were called to the Ukrainian script, here in our National Assembly, so when they saw that it was not possible, then here in our National Assembly they wanted and called on the Macedonian script. What's one and the other scenario? Violent takeover of power. This was done by the MPs of the former regime, the MPs who were in power during the regime of Dragan Gilas. Would you help us with this code against, say, Balsa, Ken, that Alexic guy and not pick up the others? I believe you wouldn't, but at least you'd have a conviction to the public. They say some NGOs who are somehow more prone to the former regime, that this code is not good because if the MP breaks it will not be punished, he will have a public conviction. Imagine now that colleagues Martinovic and the Administrative Board predicted some sort of material or any other punishment, so that the NGO would attack us? He would attack us if we were dictators. What did democracy look like at the time of Dragan Gilas? If the MP is disfellowshipped from the National Assembly session not because he threatened the physical or moral or any other integrity of the chairman, the minister or any other MP, but because he wanted to use his right of freedom of speech here in the National Assembly, I guess that's why we're MPs, and if he doesn't leave the hall after the disfellowshipping measure, do you know what their democracy looked like? First comes congregation security, invites all the MPs to leave the hall, invites all the journalists to leave the hall, then the second part of the congregation's security shows up, pulls out all these cameras, all the possible cables, so the National Assembly Hall has nothing to do with the rest of the world, and then the last thing goes is to leave the National Assembly Hall and other colleagues who didn't want to come out, leave them, too. If that doesn't happen, congregation security comes out and comes up with someone else, no uniform, no official tags, leather jackets, shoes, sticks, and they start beating up the MPs. That's what democracy looked like at the time of Dragan Gilas. And video and felt on your skin. Now these media, these NGOs who then refused to say a word about the threat of the MPs, the threat of democracy, are going to talk about how undemocratic this regime is and how it leads to dictatorship? I think with this code, we can do a lot of things if we don't stop, at least publicly condemn, because what to say about the MP who wants to... Watch out, the MP at any time can enter the building of the National Assembly. And even if it's not a normal time, if he announces to the secretary of the National Assembly, he'll enter the building. Imagine the MP who wants to enter the National Assembly building by breaking down the door and trying to get his own tents inside, I suppose they're back on fire, bragging about how they won the National Assembly? We had that picture a few months ago here in Serbia. Back then, as a state authority, the police reacted, in my opinion, relatively mild, and I understand why, they asked them to leave the National Assembly. The same was happening with the RTS building, where we saw some MPs again, so we saw a former fellow MP say at the public service that Serbia has the highest mortality rate in Europe at 100,000 inhabitants. It is enough to look at the World Health Organization website to see that 33 European countries are ahead of Serbia at a mortality rate in a negative way. The important thing is to make a fake picture of some dictatorship, about the threat of civil liberties, about the threat of the right to gather, and even how far they go to involve family members, children in their political struggles. I think that's the last thing I think is even morbid. Bringing children into your political struggle, even if it is the children of the president of the Republic of Serbia, is not normal. It's for every conviction, but what do you expect from other people who have affected young people here? Young people are the easiest to influence, they don't have enough life experience, they don't have enough maturity, they're always full of this adventurous, rebellious spirit. What was the former regime led by Dragan Gilas? These are the same kids who were lurking at the police to fight with the police. They were not in the front lines, nor brought their children as an example, but as someone else's. This only shows how much the former regime cares about children, who are not theirs, and the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. This code of all this morbidity in the political life of the Republic of Serbia will not solve, but, if nothing else, by adopting this code, we can expect an even greater condemnation of the public, the citizens of Serbia for everything the former regime has done just as it was in power, and now that it is not in power and what damage it is to the citizens of Serbia. Already, they're three percent censorship, a reduced censorship, can't even jump with a stick, and to reduce it to one percent, as they fight their political struggle, and that won't be enough for them either.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-23-0.u2017	I thank the MP Arsic. I can't help but say that many of these things are mostly applied to countries that need to object. I hope that the promoter, or Martinovic, will accept on behalf of the promoter, these amendments proposed by Mr Orlic. I want, as an illustration of what I'm saying, to read that the proposed amendment, which we are likely to accept, is that the MP is obliged to report the existence of a private interest that has to do with the law or some act. Does anyone think we're really fools, that we don't know that Elliot Engel has been receiving money from the Albanian mafia for 30 years and from the Albanian lobby in the United States? He took a loan for apartments he didn't pay back. At each session of the US Foreign Policy Committee, he lobbyed for recognition of Kosovo's independence and he has no economic interest or that Serbia should not be subject to the US or, there is Mr Marinkovic, they call it lobbying or all those who participated in the bombing of Serbia have private economic interest in Kosovo and Madeleine Albright, and William Walker, and Wesley Clark, etc., Kouchner who was head of the peace mission and Jeffrey Najs, who was prosecutor in The Hague tribunal, worked for Thaci or Haradinaj, I don't know. Legally, Walker's taking money from them now. Najs is suing them for their duty. I'm just talking about the double arches, but we're all aware of that. It doesn't take anyone to realize that we're that stupid. I also want to say apropo of this memo, and someone mentioned here today, "The Houses of Human Rights and Democracy", which had some objections to what we proposed. I want to say two things here. First, he says there is no shortage of adequate public debate. Martinovic introduced me to this story since 2014, and even before, so if six years from now and there was no time for public debate, I don't know when and who should be having a public debate and, to be absolutely clear and precise, this is an act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this is not a public debate, a debate is being held within our National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as I understand it, we're all here, I think almost everyone, I don't know if Kamberi has come forward, Imamovic, will vote to adopt this code. On the other hand, it is said - MPs cannot respond because they have immunity. To be clear, the constitutional right of the MPs is that it cannot be held accountable for the opinion expressed in the National Assembly, but I would like to remind myself of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states what happens in certain cases when the chairman of the evaluation and the National Assembly that there has been some violation of dignity, reputation or offensive expressions, curses where 10% of the basic salary is fined, 20% of the basic salary for two warnings, and I think that 40% or 50% for distance from the session, so 20 days cannot participate in the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here is the question, of course, that they obviously didn't follow, but that's why I said they'd probably, I expect these amendments to be adopted, but by Mr. Orlic's amendment... (Vladimir Orlic: They are accepted. Already accepted? So if it's accepted that the problem has been removed from the agenda, which means that not only a national MP, but that every citizen can file an application, and they write here, they're obviously not familiar with all of this, and they're giving so tenorous assessments by attacking the National Assembly that first time. We didn't have to do this this fast. We scheduled it because we had negative comments from some international organisations. Turns out we don't commit to that question. If that's the case, here's what we've shown ourselves to do. When we put it on the agenda, now they're asking us to get off the agenda. So I just want to say hello to what Mr. Martinovic did and to add one more thing, and that is to add that I am absolutely in agreement with the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, but I talked about it yesterday, we have testified that for many, the Code of Conduct is needed on the political and public scene. No one speaks of it, and all speak of what they comment on, what the messengers of the people say, and all the abominations, and the insolences are heard every day, and no one speaks of them. So, we will meet tomorrow at the vote what we think is necessary and what we will contribute to both our country's positions and international organisations, etc. But, essentially, it takes a lot more responsibility and it is necessary, whether there are any codes of conduct, for lewd behavior, for insults like yesterday, as I said, of the seventy-year-old mother of Alexander Vukic who has nothing to do with politics. What code does that have to do with it? Not only the code, the laws don't apply. So, anyway, let me conclude this debate. That's why I told you at the end of what I said not to tell anyone that we didn't want to read what they wrote to us. The "Transparency of Serbia" also wrote to us, which I think Mr Martinovic has received, I think some of these things are appreciated. So any well-intentioned criticism that comes to us we'll accept and talk, but only if it's true. It is absolutely not true what is stated in this memo, it is quite possible that every citizen can apply for a violation of this code. We're not finishing the debate. I'm not closing the debate because we haven't finished the debate yet. There's no replica. [[Vladimir Marinkovic: Give me the replica.]] I didn't discuss it to be a replica. There are about two hours left for the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. We have parliamentary questions before that tomorrow. After that, there'll be a vote. So, right now we're terminating the debate, and we're continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at this time 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. As you know, it's Thursday. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation, or to ask a question in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Milija Miletic.
