ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71152	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since attacks on the SRS have been common lately, such as those on which the SRS has been claimed to have been the most involved in destructive activities in the past, that the SRS has been destroying and even destroying other people's lives by calling, as some say, other people's children to go to war. The Serbian Radical Party has in some ways been quietly overrun by various political actors. However, as an attack of this kind on the SRS by Serbian Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who has persistently raised these claims, my question from the SRS parliamentary group was addressed to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Is he familiar with these activities of the SRS, the destroying character, the wartime call? Was he involved in such activities and his contribution to such activities? Why are we asking this question to the President of the Republic of Serbia? For several reasons, firstly for the reasons why the minister, a member of his political party, puts it in public, or more precisely, is making such claims, secondly because he himself was a senior SRS official, and therefore it would be good to at least inform the public about all the knowledge he owns when it comes to such charges at the expense of the SRS. The second question, which I am asking on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is the question to the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, as long as the Serbian government stands, under the allegations, on the side, while Serbia's worst accusations such as those that in Serbia in the 1990s have been organised deportation of all those who are not Serbian nationalities? In particular, data are provided that the deported population from several villages in the area of Srema. Will the Serbian government stand by in the sense of waiting for the final result that the Serbian government would possibly welcome a new Paddy Ashdown, who, as the EU High Representative, will one day come to Serbia, as is the High Representative in Republika Srpska Paddy Ashdown, will force Republika Srpska's parliament to recognise the fictional genocide in Srebrenica? Will such an idea fall to the high representative of a European organisation to force the Serbian government to admit that in the area of Srema in Krtkovci more precisely, the eviction was made, the planned eviction of Croatia is alive? Everyone knows that in the town of Krktovci, the largest number of cases was the replacement of dwellings, i.e. residential buildings. We are in a situation where when we examine that a large number of those people who came to Hrtkovci came from urban areas from Croatia. It turns out that those from Zagreb, who were exiled, were exorcised, eager to settle the Krtkovci so that they could live much more pleasant, much better and in greater comfort. So we ask the government, what will the government do to finally go public with the official position of the government, or the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71153	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for information and an explanation? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71154	Thank you. Dear Chairman, as I have so far asked questions concerning those of us living in southeastern Serbia. My question now is specifically related, since now the current winter season, skiing, mountain rest, the Old Mountain is a pearl of tourism, according to Karadzic Director, the Stara Planina is a roof of the world, a road infrastructure to the Old Mountain is done in the best way, it is a great commendation for the government, for all of us who live there, because now a large number of tourists are heading towards the Old Mountain, resting and the conditions are fantastic. By the way, my question is specifically the management of the Stara Planina Public Enterprise, whose headquarters is in Knjaževec, but the largest number of workers and managements are in Belgrade, which means that those from Belgrade can probably easily see the problems in ski resorts, in the hotel, problems that are evident. Because back over 15 years, and maybe more than that, we have a water problem on the Old Mountain at the Hotel “SP Resort”, it's a state-run management, “SP Resort” and hotels, whose headquarters is Kalna, there are really a large number of tourists there, according to my information so far there are over 50,000 tourists who have been and who will be in the coming days at the hotel “SP Resort”, the Hotel “Stara Planina”, where there are indeed over 200 people who are employed. My information, since there are a number of e-mails coming from the management of the "Old Mountain" Public Enterprise, is roof management, it is also the founder of the "SP Resort" and the hotels present there, where there are, I said, over 200 employees. The latest information I have is some conflict between the management of the Stara Planina Public Enterprise and the SP Resort Hotel and the hotels that house all those tourists who are coming there. Because of all these things, the great danger threatens because indeed the beauty of the Old Mountain is something very, very interesting, beautiful, where many people come and always come back when they get there. But I'm interested in whether the management of the "Old Mountains" Public Enterprise will be much more involved, more present on the ground, present with people, with tourists, with people who come there and we all get involved in solving problems together. The problem of water supply is evident and it is now not only this year, but it has passed, it has passed many years ago. There is not enough rainfall, there is not enough water, and Srljig himself is a municipality that is connected to the Old Mountain because all destinations that go from Nis, Belgrade, from the airport, go through Srlig, it is the nearest destination and we who have problems with water because it is simply the situation, we will expect it this year to solve it, but it is very important for all of us who live there, who are working there, that the Old Mountain and Management of the Old Mountain be more present in the very place, to be in Književec, to be in hotels and to notice and to see all those problems. The biggest problem is water, and we have to do it immediately. One of the things I would say is that it threatens danger, it's about shutting down, that state property, or management that's state-owned in the "SP Resort" and hotels on the Old Mountain to be annulled tomorrow, that's my information, and that close to 200 people are out of work, with hotels and "SP Resort" all products from our region, cheese, whitemush, helmet, all of them are healthy products, beautiful products, these are the products of our hosts and housewives from Svrljiga, Knjižvac, Zaječar, Pirota and the environment. (President: Bring the end. ) It is very important to continue to work on state management, because we are witnessing that the previous management that was "Falkensteiner" was only in the minuses, in the dubiosis, and when the state property took over Serbia and the management led by Mr Karadzic has given the opportunity and is now much better working and much better going. Will there be time and opportunity to resolve it?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71155	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71156	I thank you, Chairman. After recently held elections in Kosovo and Metohija, power has changed, but unfortunately no policy of temporary institutions in Pristina has changed. Political rhetoric and political vocabulary remain the same. Kosovo's new prime minister, Aljbin Kurti, makes statements that are not in the spirit of the proper development of all parts of Kosovo, but continue to be discriminated against by those parts of Kosovo that are inhabited by the Serb population. On the other hand, the policy led by the new prime minister of Kosovo is not in the spirit of stabilisation and peace in the territory of the entire region. On the contrary, Aljbin Kurti declares that the Balkan mini Shengen is a Serbian intention to form the fourth Yugoslavia and that such an idea is allegedly a danger to Kosovo. In addition, Albin Kurti advocates opposing everything that appears as extremely useful, well-intentioned in terms of developing economic relations, in terms of economic and economic convergence and convergence of all countries in the Balkan territory. It is obvious that Albin Kurti is currently not fully responsible and we hope that the principled statements of US Special Envoy Tramp Richard Grenel about the fact that in no case can the abolition of taxis be tied to some kind of reciprocity and that the fees must necessarily be abolished. On the other hand, we have a very responsible, highly committed policy implemented by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, which is linked primarily to the protection of the interests of the Serb population in Kosovo, which is related to the development of economic co-operation, to the introduction of little Schengen, to economic convergence and, most importantly, to stability and peace in the Balkan territory, i.e. in the Balkans region. What Serbia has done so far is much, Serbia is doing even more, insists on normalising relations, but does not want to give in to any blackmail, neither will nor will nor will it be put in a position of any humiliation or oppression on either side. This raises the question – is it sufficient for a kind of pressure that the US administration is currently conducting according to the leadership of temporary institutions in Kosovo to finally accept the possibility of starting negotiations in order to reach an agreement, in order to finally normalise relations between Belgrade and Pristina? My second question is addressed to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as this ministry has recently done a great deal and has had exceptional results in its work in the development of local self-government and in the area of affirmation of functions, i.e. competences exercised by local self-government. A large number of laws adopted here on the proposal of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have already delivered a good result in the process of modernising the purchase of everything useful for the model of e-government, the modernisation of public administration, the creation of a single database, the introduction of a central register of the population and everything else. The ministry managed to provide 520,000,000 dinars, as a budget fund for local self-government, three years ago. A dozen days ago, a competition was launched that could be applied to local self-government that has quality local projects. What is commendable is the first time the award for best local self-government was introduced in 2019 and this is a public call for which a sum of 10,400,000 dinars was provided. I ask the question, Minister Ruzic, which projects will be used by local self-government in 2020? Are the effects of the three-year experience of the budget fund for the locality measurable and have the results been achieved in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71157	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71158	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, and it says - was the leader of the Citizens' Movement Sergei Trifunovic responsible for the car accidents he caused in the past month? Sergei Trifunovic, in a people known as Sergei Pishoi, was nicknamed because he said, quote: "He will piss on the grave of the President of the Republic", a quote concluded, caused a traffic accident on the Novosad highway in early February 2020. He was moving towards Novi Sad with his car knocked into the Fiat that went ahead of him. Fiat driver, he was transported to the Earth Hospital for diagnostics and continued treatment. Mr. Trifunovic also crashed on the GSP bus in Bulavar Michael Pupin in Belgrade and then fled the scene, as he said he had gone home to feed the cats. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, such boast and insolence as Sergei Trifunovic is rarely seen on our streets. For the past 10 years, he's committed dozens of traffic violations, many of which have been a serious threat to security. Mr. Trifunovic has been punished six times for driving in an alcoholic state, seven times found in overspeed in a settlement and three times on the way out of the settlement. Mr. Trifunovic has been caught several times by the police that he has gone through the red light, and has crossed a full line. Also, Mr. Trifunovic was punished for driving an invalid driver's license of an appropriate category. Mr. Trifunovic is not a good example for any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It's an impression, and the citizens get that he's gone into politics to avoid any kind of responsibility and he's very dangerous in the environment, which he's shown for the past month. Public figures must be aware that their behaviour always attracts the attention of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that inappropriate and boastful traffic behaviour will give a bad example, especially to young generations, who often like to imitate them. And his colleague Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the 618.000,000-euro Giki Mafia, threatened a traffic policeman who stopped him for driving, then, for driving a yellow tape without a seat belt. Not only that, Gilas threatened to abolish Gendarmeria and threatened members of the criminal police in downtown Belgrade who were doing their job in a civilian and threatened to lose their jobs when he came to power. Respected Serbian citizens, the Giki Mafia always puts itself past the law and above other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Such people, such as Djilas, Trifunovic, including Jeremic, are not Serbia first, nor are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, Mr Trifunovic said on 31 January 2019, quote: "Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians and not to Serbs" finished a quote, and Dragan Gilas said in 13/08, quote: "I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo," the quote concluded. So they settled into the traitorous bastards of our country. By contrast, Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian statesman, reformer and above all a patriot who is making a huge effort to find a compromise, sustainable and sustainable solution for Kosovo and Metohija and who will do nothing against the interests of the Serbian people and national communities in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71159	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71160	Thank you. I have repeatedly asked questions here and such, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, when she was in the Assembly, on the status of Resolution 1244 and on the fact that representatives of Serbian authorities in Belgrade are becoming less and very rarely, almost never mention Resolution 1244. So, as a foundation, a legal basis, we now leave history aside, a temporary but international legal basis on which our argument of defence and territorial sovereignty and the integrity of the country rests when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Instead of being a regular, mandatory form in performances, it means that our country's leader, from the Prime Minister to the Foreign Ministry, is, I say, spontaneously or almost merely an incident. If it wasn't just my impression, we now have, yesterday and a confirmation of the ambassador of Russia to Belgrade, Mr. Bocan Harchenka, who, of course, explains, Russia's position on Kosovo does not change and will not change, but said one very important thing that he said fits into this impression that I have repeatedly talked about and often was attacked for it. He says, Mr Harchenko, that in the context of existing discussions on resolving the Kosovo issue and the compromise for which he stands, I see no resolution, and this is a quote, I don't see Resolution 1244, and it has to be. Of course, it is primarily a criticism at the expense of these Western intermediaries who, of course, do not want to mention Resolution 1244, but also, I would say our Serbian negotiators to whom it should be, I say, based and some kind of mandatory phrase and formulation of which it goes. Well, then we're talking about a compromise, not to talk about compromise and the necessity of compromise, but in fact, the foundation of our position is already being predicated. So, it's not good, as I was already saying Moscow must, I don't know, President Putin or Ambassador Harchenko, this time reminds us of something that should be a basic and default formulation of our diplomatic and political efforts. The address is to the Prime Minister, the question and the Foreign Ministry, meaning on the status of Resolution 1244 and why is it no more and more frequent in the performances of the leader of the Republic of Serbia? My second question, although there are many, goes to the address and it is brief, the interior ministry, Mr Stefanovic. I received an answer to some parliamentary questions, and I must commend him, because he relatively properly answers parliamentary questions, and the situation with migrants and various aspects of the migrant crisis. I say, the answers were precise, often detailed, but there was no answer to the first question. It's a repeated question multiple times. I don't know why. It is a famous statement by former Austrian Interior Minister Herbert Kiklo on an agreement he made, allegedly an agreement he concluded with a Serbian counterpart on the acceptance of all those do not get asylum in Austria to be returned to Serbia, as a country of origin regardless of how they came to Serbia. Indirectly, in that statement, it can be concluded to me that such an agreement does not exist, indirectly. But I don't see what the problem is to say if there's no agreement, which is spoken of by the former Austrian minister, then we say loud and clear and nothing, everything's fine. At least one source of doubt and confusion and rumors will be removed. And then there's no need to complain about Mr. Djordjevic manipulating himself. It's not that big a migrant problem. That's what some villains inflate. If there were more information, timely and accurate, and fewer rumors and information and silences, then there would be less room for manipulation, therefore, the answer of the MUP. And the last thing, just a short one, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Building, is asking about the status and fate of the Water Factory, or water purification in Zrenjanin, since the factory was pompously opened four, five years ago. Not only has it not worked, but the water situation in Zrenjanin has been worse these months and days than it has been before. So it's for the Ministry of Ecology. What does he think he's doing? And the Ministry of Industry and Construction, which allegedly gave permission to build the water treatment plant, which is an example of a classic failed investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71161	Since none of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work further. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from points 8 to 11 of the agenda. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint Single Search on a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2020 Commission's financial plan for securities, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the rebalancing of the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. Does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71162	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, on today's agenda we have financial plans for institutions whose work is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and thus, by the laws defining their work and competences, and these financial plans are also in the competence of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Control of the Expendation of Public Funds and Plenum of the Assembly, because only at the moment when the "Official Messenger" publishes the decision of all Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is in fact a valid document for the use of public funds relating to these institutions. What do I want to say? I want to say that all these plans we're talking about today are not part of Serbia's budget. They, through their financial plans according to special decisions, legislative solutions and sublaws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, charge a certain type of compensation and costs based on which they are supported and thereby invest much in different aspects of policies covering their work. So we have the Securities Commission, we have REM, and we end up with the Energy Agency, which, by their work and by their responsibilities, represent the so-called Energy Agency. An independent body, in terms of your work. This means that it does not depend on the work of the executive body, specifically from the Government of the Republic of Serbia or are part of the budget we are discussing and that is why it is important that every year in which we have these financial plans, as the National Assembly, we adopt this act. On the basis of this act, those who manage, which are the governing part of these institutions, which are the advices and the presidents of the councils of these institutions, can have public funds. Thus, from the signing of wages, i.e. earnings to parts relating to different types of current costs to the purchase of fixed assets and promotions, when it comes to the work of those institutions. Why is he saying this? Because when we have a Committee on Charters of the Value of Jurisdictions which speak of approving a certain type of offer when it comes to the inclusion of financial mechanisms on the capital market, which approves the physical and legal persons of the status of certain investors in society, means, work permits. As the Committee on Papers of value to many economic reforms and fiscal consolidation and the adoption of new laws that we had in the Serbian Parliament, the Securities Commission also has some new responsibilities. These new responsibilities relate to the functioning of stock companies, an open closed type. You saw that we adopted those laws in the congregation. They're in charge of overseeing the work of these societies. Secondly, we have a new Revision Act which implies that work permits and registers and as a second-degree body, in terms of the work of audits, exist exclusively by the Securities Commission and in terms of international cooperation, the Committee on Charters of Values is members of an international organisation relating to the Association of Securities Committees. The institution gained weight when it comes to their work, but will therefore have a certain expansion in terms of the number of employees. She now has 38 employees. In doing so, more than 85% have been obliged to take over three other employees from the Chamber of Authorised Auditors, which means that in the financial plan, when it comes to profits in a certain way, you will have an increase in the scope. When we talk about the revenues of the Securities Commission, they are projected and revenue and expenditure based on projections, i.e. the realisation that took place in 2018 and 2019. When we talk about revenues for 2020, they are in the amount of 108.8 million dinars, of which the revenue from the Tariff Regulations is 107.8 million dinars, and a million dinars of revenue is made through certain fees and fees which, in the case of laying down certain types of exams, for which the Securities Commission is in charge, issue certain types of licences, such as brokers, such as portfolio managers, such as investment advisors, is also income. Otherwise, all three of these financial plans were adopted immediately after the adoption of the budget in the Republic of Serbia, on the Committee held on 2 December 2019, and as such plans are in line with the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, with laws that were passed at the time of fiscal consolidation, when we talk about a 10% reduction in earnings, and now that the part relating to the profit reduction has been abolished, a certain type of cost used to raise wages, or profits. When we talk about these commissions, they didn't all go into this domain up to 8%, 15% as the government made its own proposals, but as much as they could, given that all the funds that were introduced here in the plan are their own resources. This means that on the basis of certain acts, regulations, regulations, laws, they are incometing on the market certain own funds. These own funds, of course, are redistributed on the basis of certain expenditures they have. Costs, i.e. expenditures covering the Commission's work on charters of 55%, are earnings, amounting to 57.8 million dinars, when we speak of the employer's burden we also have certain increases in this part of 9.8 million, which suggests that we have an increase in both the number of employees and a certain volume. But we also have a certain part that relates to basic increases, for the scale of the fixed assets, that is to improve through full digitization, i.e. buying new hardware and software, which is otherwise not done in the previous year, so we have 11.3 million dinars foreseen for the basic funds. When we talk about other costs related to certain non-productive services and maintenance costs, it should be said that the Agency for Joint Affairs is doing this job on behalf of the Securities Commission, so we are, in fact, the most we are talking about now is that much has been changed when it comes to the structure of the Commission's costs for securities of value, that the costs for official travel have been reduced by almost 48%, when it comes to, say, 2016. So we see that much has been changed in terms of functioning not only of the Securities Commission but also of other institutions. When we talk about REM, I think REM is one of the most interesting institutions of this time, because somehow elections are coming to us, and the most talk about freedom of the media, but when we talk about the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media it is necessary to adopt the Financial Report of this institution for 2020, especially if we are going to have elections and what we need to ensure a certain kind of stability, in which no one can say that we have done everything when it comes to this institution, in order to make possible any possible pressures, but all that they have proposed as an institution in charge of this area, we simply did. Immediately after the adoption of the budget, on 2 December 2019, we discussed the financial plan of REM for 2020 on the Committee. The starting point of view of the institution in the light of the budget is that it was made in line with the draft financial plan for 2020. It is a document that the Ministry of Finance sends to all institutions, which is how the Securities Commission and REM and all other institutions respected it, and based on the fiscal strategy and guidelines for the preparation of the financial plan, not only for this year, but with projections for 2021 and 2021. This means that even when we talk about the financial plans of the institutions in the work of the Assembly, we are talking about having one planned, predictable management of public finances when it comes to these institutions. And these institutions also know exactly how they will benefit in the future in the market and how they will improve the work in their fields, based on spending and realising public funds. I must say that REM has indeed sent a good report, of course, to all MPs, you can see this, which refers to comparison, spending and realisation of funds in previous years, but it also speaks of that over 618 media service providers, as you can see here in the explanation, of national importance covered, the province, the city of Belgrade, the regional coverage, the local coverage of the programme and cable coverage, essentially, based on the collection of certain taxis and fees designed their revenues. I think a detailed analysis, as you can see in this proposal, is how much money is made from television and radio stations that are at national level, regional, local, and are essentially the biggest revenues when we talk about the national level, that the fees they're talking about are, say, 62%, of the local 10% and regional 24%. So what I think is really very well depicted and that's actually how much REM works in this area, how much progress it's made. In the end, everything that is being respected for the Serbian Progressive Party that when it comes to REM is not working enough, I don't think it stands, because now all the MPs and the public have the opportunity to make sure and based on financial reports as far as it was in the past year, while Mr Gilas created a media picture of Serbia, and what it looks like today, when it's simply established, based on all those laws we passed, I will remember you, with EU co-operation, a media set of laws five years ago, what it looks like now and what a promotion is going on in this sector, in a completely transparent way. After all, no one can say that there is simply this media blockade that some here are trying to talk to the public about, because the simple market has become very diversified and it is really a struggle on the market for media space based solely on what is the quality of information, not what is political influence and pressure, as many want to show, that they would be politically accounting with their non-existants. It is therefore important to say that when we talk about REM, the revenues planned for 2020, based on all these documents and based on the actual projections made compared to the previous years, are 307,927 million dinars, and the expenditures planned, the planned expenditure on earnings is only 217 million dinars, for 80 employees, which is also an option granted on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Committee, the employment of the new three employees. When we talk about certain fees to members of the Council, then that amount is about 13.8 million dinars, a constant cost of 25.13 million dinars. Otherwise, Part 10.85 dinar contracts are at the same level based on the government's conclusion in 2014, when we started, practically, economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. So, they didn't go into an increase in the contracts of certain that relate to an increase in volume. And investments related to current maintenance are worth nine million dinars, with the remaining costs and certain reserves that exist in the amount of five million dinars. I must say that at a time when Serbia's budget really needed to fill the moment when the public debt went up to 78% of GDP, all of these institutions, regardless of what we say are independent in terms of the work of the Serbian government's executive government and not part of Serbia's budget, have paid all the surpluses relating to their incomes and expenditures into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and thus have indeed shown that their business when we talk purely about expenditures and revenues, is one sustainable system of functioning, and that is something that we have all learned when it comes to not only institutions that you can control directly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, but also by the Committee on Finance, i.e. the institutions that are in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, it should be said that all costs that are in the financial plan relative to REM are made in an extremely economical, rational way, covering all costs incurred for the regular operation of regulators, at any moment available on the website based on the financial plan, which we have the opportunity to see, which is of great importance to all of us. I think in the debate, we're going to open up the question of many what is an integral part of this report when it comes to certain fees and fees. It details the amount of taxis for certain types of media. It is important to say that we have a total of 618 service providers when it comes to media services. At the end of this set, we have financial plans when it comes to changing and supplementing the 2019 Energy and Plan Agency for 2020. Why did we even put today to discuss 2019 together with 2018? Because the profits, which are normally designed and you know that the budget practically increased earnings from 1 January 2020, a certain part relating to the items of advertising of the very profit items relating to taxes and contributing to the employer's burden, in this context simply, are now taking up certain other places in the advertising itself. It also respected the increase in profits, but not in the extent that the government of the Republic of Serbia has given certain institutions, but on the basis of the possibilities, revenues and expenditures of the institution itself. So it was necessary to make a change to the plan and as such the framework remained the same, which is very important. So no framework, no increase, no reduction occurred under the plan, which was projected in January 2019. The financial plan for 2020, when it comes to the Energy Agency, practically, when we talk about the revenues themselves, is in line with the competence of the Energy Agency itself. We are also talking about its independent work in terms of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is independent in terms of financing revenues on the market because it is financed from licences, from regulatory prices, from fees, as well as from certain types of donations in terms of international co-operation with the Energy Community, because a large part of international co-operation is financed through certain educations, the cost of travel by the Energy Community itself is simply to ensure that the component of the policy defined by the Energy Act, which implies this third package of EU directives, which we are obliged to carry, is simply financed by certain works and international organisations themselves. The improvement, the direction of the energy market in general in a completely competitive way and the definition of the regulatory framework, when it comes to sustainable energy policy, which should be the basis of economic policy when we talk about energy itself, define and policies relating to both gas and electricity and oil, is of great importance to us because at any time when we are talking to the EU's most developed countries, but also to the east and west, you have seen that it creates many policies and simply the focus of all EU Member States, which we seek, is that there is one institution of this kind that, according to its work, should correspond to the highest body of the legislative authority, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I am the Financial Plan, you will see, simply, planning revenues of 223.357.223 dinars, of which 78% goes from regulatory fees, 10% goes, when we speak, from certain consumers, and these are the biggest public enterprises and 9% of the income comes from licenses themselves. The planned expenditures of this plan are 70% earnings of 156,600,000 dinars, then certain non-productive services, of 12%, that is 27 million, certain immaterial costs of 6%. I must say that we now have certain costs that have been incurred before this Council is called upon, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Energy, has begun to implement a specific project under the IPA 2014 funds relating to a specific projection and definition of the cost-effectiveness analysis of foreign and direct investment in energy, which would introduce financial management and control into the Energy Agency. The project is the responsibility of the Agency itself to participate in the project in certain amounts, and that amount of immaterial costs is at a certain commitment of 6% over the next five years. We are really talking right now about something that is European integration, which is the process itself that speaks of Serbia itself improving its policy in certain areas. All these three institutions show that they can carry their work side by side with developed countries whose economies are indeed at a high level, when it comes to not only energy, but also the capital market, and, God, regulation, when it comes to media and media policy, in terms of regulation, means, as regulatory bodies in our country. That is why I think it is really good to talk today about these institutions in this way, how they spend public funds, how they earn, and not to spend funds from the budget, or Serbia's citizens directly. This means that the policies that we have represented here through the adoption of new proposals, amendments and additions of laws for these institutions yield results. I suggest we support all these financial plans in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71163	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71164	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we have heard from the rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, by Ms Aleksandra Tomic, today the financial plans of independent and independent organisations are in line with the National Assembly. So it's about the financial plans of the Securities Commission, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, and we have one rebalancing of the Financial Plan. It is the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. The rebalancing refers to a change in the structure of expenditure without change in total income and expenditure, which I will talk about a little later. Given that today's financial plan for 2020 charters is on the agenda, I will use a few minutes to devote to the capital market. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Finance on yesterday's signing of the Euroclear Group agreement. This means that Serbian charters from October 2020 will be found side by side with charters of the value of developed countries. So, the finance ministry and the National Bank of Serbia are fully committed to the development of the capital market. In 2019, we MPs in the National Assembly passed as many as 180 laws, with 76 laws coming from the area of finance. Two weeks ago, we adopted amendments to the Capital Market Act and these amendments and amendments to the laws are minimal, but they will give maximum results in the development of the capital market, on the one hand, when it comes to foreign investment inflows, on the other. Finally, these amendments and additions to the law two weeks ago will result in a reduction in the cost of borrowing of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the broadcasting of Eurobonds. Why do I even mention the laws we adopted in the area of finance, and why are they so important to us? On the one hand, we have managed to achieve huge results when it comes to public finances, and that actually means that the quality of life and the standard of living of all citizens has improved. All international institutions and the World Bank and the IMF and the European Commission and international credit rating agencies say Serbia today is financially stable and strong and of course with positive prospects in the future. I will make some good examples to support the claims made by all international institutions when it comes to the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia. I mentioned a little while that in 2019, we MPs adopted a huge number of laws in the area of finance, and just in early October we passed the Investment Funds Act and the Alternative Investment Funds Act. Exactly, these two laws were crucial for opening Chapter 4 concerning the free movement of capital and we managed to open up as many as six chapters of eight as there are when it comes to finance. It wouldn't have been possible if we hadn't implemented heavy reforms and not stabilised public finances. Our country has, by all parameters, exceeded all expectations of international institutions both when it comes to the World Bank and when it comes to the European Commission. I'll make a good example. The World Bank forecasts growth in 2019 of 3.5%, not that we have not achieved the expectations of the World Bank, but we have also exceeded the expectations of the World Bank and the rate of economic growth in 2019 is 4.2% of GDP and we are among the first in Europe at the rate of economic growth. I'm sure this result would have been even better if Pristina hadn't introduced a 100% Serb goods tax or at least abolished the fees in 2019. What I'm trying to say is that some citizens, especially those of Gilas's alliance, sound like it's easy to achieve an economic growth rate of 4.2% in 2018 or 4.4% in 2019, but it's really not like that. This means that we repeated the 2018 score which was recordable and that we managed to increase GDP by 4.2% in 2019. When we pass it on to an ordinary citizen, it means that we succeeded in 2019 to buy everything we bought in 2018 and we afforded ourselves something extra. Simply, the economic growth that we have every year and that breaks all the records is an indicator of the better and better life of all citizens. When it comes to public debt, it is today 48.2% of GDP, which is indeed, for every praise and someone will say yes, but you continue to be in debt. Yeah, we're in debt, but our loans are developmental. Until two weeks ago, we adopted agreements and agreements signed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and these loans are intended for the construction of the University Children's Clinic "Tirshova 2", for the purchase of 18 trains, for the modernisation of agriculture. So it's about very important infrastructure projects. Our loans are extremely favourable with interest rates from 0.18 to 0.68%. All the terms of the loan are completely transparent and can be seen on the National Assembly site, unlike the previous government, who kept everything from us. If we could see under what conditions we were in debt, we would never have been welcomed by the previous government in 2012. Let's just say, when the previous government owed us, we had no idea that we were getting salaries and pensions out of loans and that both of us and our children would pay those salaries and pensions. So, the current government pays in the public sector and pension donations to the PIO Fund, which are now far less than by 2012, is paying out of regular budget revenues, which is in line with the domestic behaviour towards the state register, while "jilasovci" salaries have been paid out of expensive loans at 7% and 8% interest rates, thus bringing us to bankruptcy. It was not small for them, so now this Dragan Gilas says that if he comes to power, he will pay salaries to doctors of 1000 euros. How's he gonna pay his wages to the doctors? By hitching off the construction of the Moravian Corridor and the funds from the Moravian Corridor loan will be rerouted to pay the doctors' salary. First, services and materials installed in any infrastructure project are paid once, while salaries to doctors and nurses and to all public sector employees are to be paid every month, each year. Now I'm wondering, how will when they spend those credits on building the Moravian Corridor, pay their salaries to doctors? He thus showed that he does not care about citizens living in that part of Serbia, and there are over half a million. It does not matter to him either 21,000 companies operating in that part of Serbia. This story didn't go very well for him, so this Dragan Gilas says that if he comes to power, the promised salaries will be paid by the state secretary, executive directors, doctors and nurses. First, there are about 50 and 60 state secretaries in the system. So many executives, and health workers currently have over 100,000. How Gilas came up with it, he's the only one who knows. Maybe in his day, the secretary of state received salaries three, four and five times as much as doctors. This is 2020, the head of state is some responsible people and now we have a situation where the doctors' salaries and salaries of the secretary of state and, of course, executive directors are fully equal. Recently, we had a chance to see, Minister Loncar showed a payroll from November 2009 where the nurse's salary is visible and the nurse's salary in November 2009 was 31,759 dinars, and in November 2019, the nurse's salary was 59,377 dinars. In November 2009, the doctor’s salary of the specialists was 78,547 dinars, while in November 2019, 150,896 dinars. Now someone will say that money is not worth the same today and in 2009, but it really isn't. First, the inflation rate is never lower and it moves around 2% year-on-year, while in Gilas' time the inflation rate went up to 13%, the exchange rate has been stable for a longer period of time and is moving around 117.5 dinars per euro. Now that the doctor's salary from November 2009 is recalculated at the mid-term on November 30, 2009, we get that the specialist's doctor, on duty, received 828 euros in November 2009, and when we take a course for November 30, 2019 and when we recalculate the doctor's salary, we get that the doctor received a salary of 1,283 euros in November 2019. That means doctors' salaries are now 455 euros higher than in Gilas' time. Apparently, Gilasu's up to 1000 euros is not doing very well, but that up to 620m-euro math is going perfectly. When it comes to the capital market itself, what is responsible policy of the current government has succeeded, it is to collect loans from previous authorities to replace them with cheap loans. So, credits with interest rates of 7.4%, we were able to swap credits with interest rates from 1.25% to 1.6%, and in this way we achieved huge savings in the budget. The current government paid only on the basis of unfavourable loans and under the irresponsible policy of the previous government, therefore, only on behalf of the interest, over seven billion euros. If we hadn't paid that interest, we would have a public debt of 35% of GDP today. So, just on the basis and when we reject the interest of the previous government's expensive loans, then, in those 35 percent, the principal is contained. Another fantastic success of the finance ministry and the National Bank of Serbia was achieved on January 29th, so two weeks ago, by broadcasting state bonds with a maturity of up to 20 years. So, by January 29th, our country broadcast Eurobonds with a maximum maturity of up to 15 years from January 29th with a maturity of up to 20 years. What's particularly interesting is that the demand surpassed the offer. To be clear, no one can force any investor to invest in risky projects, investors invest where stability and predictability are at a high level, which is exactly the case with our securities of value. When it comes to the Financial Plan of the Commission on Securities for 2020, first of all, I would like to say that the Commission is obliged to bring the financial plan for next year by 30 November. The Commission did so, respecting the 2020 deadline and the financial plan, it submitted to the National Assembly for consideration on 29 November. Also, what I think is important for the citizens of Serbia to say is that the Securities Commission is financed from its own sources of funding, which is in accordance with the Capital Market Act and is in line with the Statute of the Securities Commission. If, during the financial year, the Commission makes excess revenue over expenditure, the surplus will be paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. If the expenditure is higher than the revenue, the difference is derived from the Commission's own securities reserve. If your own reserve isn't enough, the difference is from the budget, but it's never happened before. What is commendable is that the Commission, in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, adopted a Regulation on the tariff of the Securities Commission. The Regulation entered into force on 1 January of this year, and just the adoption of this Regulation has resulted in the planning of higher revenues for 2020, which amounted to 19.24%. When it comes to planned expenditure, what I can see is that for 2020, higher earnings are planned for the Commission's employees, which is in line with the suspension of the Interim Reduction Act. Therefore, the earnings of the employees planned for 2020 are higher, and the mass of costs based on earnings and earnings were left at the same level as in 2019. The reason is that there is a change in staff in the Commission. In 2020 some younger people will start working, with less past work, while older workers with more past work will retire. The Commission, by the way, numbers 38 employees, which is for two more employees than in 2018. For 2020, in its financial plan, the Commission has identified and plans 11.3 million dinars for the purchase of computer equipment, which is indeed for every commendation, given that the Charter Commission is being financed from its own sources. When it comes to the 2020 Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, it is a fully independent and independent institution, which accounts for 80 employees. This is also about an institution financed from its own resources, i.e. the revenues made by the regulator when performing operations under its jurisdiction. These are the fees paid by the media service provider for the right to provide media services. So these are TV fees, radio fees, cable fees, etc. I believe it is important to note that the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media has invested in the budget of the Republic of 1,328,551,794 dinars between 2007 and 2018. What I can also see is that, on the basis of the abolishing of the unemployment contribution to the employer's burden, the regulator saved as much as 1,300,000 dinars and those savings were shifted to higher employee earnings at an 8% rate, which is in line with the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. So, we see that the measures of redundancies of the economy and employers bring enormous results when it comes to earning employees, i.e. when it comes to the standard of living of citizens. When it comes to the rebalancing of the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, it is only about changing the cost structure, i.e. requalification from one cont to the other. What is important is that in 2019, the Agency made savings based on the abolition of the contribution to the employer's burden of unemployment totalling 978,815 dinars. The agency rescheduled part of the savings to larger profits, and the remaining amount of funds saved to its own unscheduled expenditure reserves. As regards the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2020, what should be praised is that the costs remained at the same level as in 2019. The only forecast is higher costs of non-productive services stemming from the Agency's obligation to pay 13,000 euros under an agreement reached between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission. It is a 1,500,000-euro IPA project, where the Energy Agency is the end user. Otherwise, the Agency paid 60,000 euros in 2018, the remaining 76,000 euros will be paid in 2020. When it comes to the Energy Agency, it is also funded from its own sources and has so far paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia 67,154,000 dinars. While Gilas's group is now engaged in calculating whether to go to the elections in Šapac or not, whether to go to the Paracino elections or not, and while condemning their party friend Gordana Komic, who has fought in a completely democratic way for the better position of women in Serbia, we MPs here in the Assembly work and fight every day for a better standard of living for all citizens. They rob citizens of money every day by not coming to work and receiving salaries, while on the other hand they serve false promises and thus insult the intelligence of all of us. SNS policy is work and results, as well as a daily fight for better tomorrow for all citizens. The SNS parliamentary group will support all financial plans on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71165	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71166	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Serbian citizens, respected fellow MPs are now on the agenda of several proposals relating to the financial plans of the regulatory bodies for 2020, to which the National Assembly, in accordance with the law, gives its consent. So, before us are the Commission's financial plan for values for 2020, the REM Financial Plan and the Financial Plan and the rebalancing of the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly, by agreeing on the financial plans of these bodies, or, as we would say, on their budgets, shall exercise its control function, i.e. to control, above all, the plan of spending public funds by these regulatory bodies, which are entrusted with specific sectoral laws to have certain competences and public powers in the sector for which they are established. By holding a debate on these financial plans in order to give them agreement, the National Assembly confirms transparent work, first of all, parliament, but also the transparent work of these regulatory bodies. Now, for that money, the regulator has to do something. It is commendable that more income goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but, imagine, now, you open a shoe shop and provide services or a tailor's shop, provide services and pay all fees, taxes, taxes, etc., and besides you open a second shoe shop or a tailor's workshop that pays nothing, and doesn't pay any bread, and says anything -- you know what, I don't pay, I don't pay because I'm registered in Luxembourg. I've fictitiously registered the shoe shop in Luxembourg, I've fictitiously registered the tailoring shop in Luxembourg, and I don't have to pay anything in Serbia. Imagine, you who pay everything to feel if you saw someone in the neighborhood who didn't pay anything. That's exactly what it is with media services. We have domestic channels and cross-border channels. According to the Convention, we are obliged to release cross-border channels into cable networks, we are obliged, but this same convention says about cross-border television, Article 2 point (a) - broadcasting marks the initial broadcasting of television broadcasting services intended for the general public through the earth's transmitter, cable or satellites, etc. Well, he says, point b) - re-emission marks as soon as you download the simultaneous broadcast, complete and unchanged services of the television programme. So, re-emissioning, broadcasting. This is also said by our law, a member of the 4th Electronic Media, and then a member of 74 says that channels re-emitting the programme, says - re-emissioning from item 1 of point 3 of this article does not exist, if the original programme is modified, by publishing audio, visual, commercial communication or other software content that is not part of the original programme. So unless you're re-emitting a program somewhere from abroad, if you're changing it or producing it in Serbia, it's not considered re-emitting. Only televisions re-emitting the program by convention do not have to be registered. But what are these of ours doing? There are three types of cross-border channels currently in Serbia. The first type is regular cross-border channels, such as "BN" that was excluded from a cable, and REM's duty was to monitor it, and REM obviously did not follow it. There are, for example, a Montenegrin channel is a cross-border channel that is regulated, there is "Juro sport" etc., these are regular cross-border channels that respect our laws and conventions. There is another category of cross-border channels, these are "Fox" channels, which include Serbian advertising in Bulgaria and thus releases the programme with commercial content in Serbia. Look at the wonders, the incomes of Darekt and Cass media, or members of United Media and United Groups, famous for which we have problems and with the opposition, this part of the opposition, which is only the physical workforce of Gilas and Šolakov's interests. The third kind of cross-border television is total pirates. It is "N1", "Nova S" and "Sport clubs". They are registered in Luxembourg, and the entire programme is produced and broadcast in Serbia. When you ask the REM masters, they say -- you know, they send a signal from Serbia through Luxembourg and Slovenia, and then such a programme comes to Serbia and says -- it's technically considered a re-emission. In doing so, they avoid our law and the Convention on Cross-border Television, which say that re-emissioning is at the same time taking over programmes broadcast to the general public, for example, in Luxembourg, etc., walking signals is not re-emissioning. One more thing, you recently read in the paper that Slovenia has therefore punished United Media with almost four million euros and ordered them to sell 13 Sports Clubs because they are also owners, because they are both cable owners and owners of these channels and because they abuse so-called "Sport Clubs". re-emissioning. We are not EU members, that channels registered in the EU can be broadcast freely here, without payment obligations etc. Only in the EU, in one country can you be registered, in another to produce a programme. However, we are not EU members. The REM gentlemen who have the average salary of 129.000 are doing this on purpose. What about "Sport clubs" and the disputes we have? They're legal, Article 64. REM should draw up a list of the most important events. These events, both under the Convention and under our law, include qualifications for European Championships, European Championships, World Cups, World Cups, Qualifications for the Olympics, Olympic Games. These are the most important events to be found on the list and which can be passed, by law, only channels that cover the entire market in the Republic of Serbia and which have free access. Which means they can be seen on both the antenna and the cable, but they can cover the whole market in the Republic of Serbia. The REM gentlemen have never recently wanted to comply with that regulation. I think the last time was three, four years ago. They're not putting together a list of most important events, which is the obligation of REM, and then only the national broadcasters can transmit that kind of sporting event from that list of most important events, REM does it on purpose. The gentlemen we pay, i.e. the national taxpayers who pay taxes, take money from national broadcasters, 167 million, and do not provide them with the right and privilege to, since they pay the highest fee, have the right to transfer what they have by law, to transfer sports events from the list of most important events, only they, because it is their law-defined right. But when you don't determine the list of most important events, then Solak and Gilas can do whatever they want at Sports Clubs. Then, our viewers, which they are legally entitled to, because of the most important events to be fully notified throughout the market, are losing it. Furthermore, these decent, well-paid REM members do not respect Article 100. – sorting channels according to the legal procedure, where the highest-paying channels, i.e. national frequencies, should first be lined up. I get the circumstances, they pay the most, and that's why they need to be on number one, two, three, four, and REM doesn't. Although under the law he is right, Article 100(2). – the operator is obliged to distribute media services, radio and TV broadcasts simultaneously and completely without change, which is re-emissioning. The controller shall monitor and ensure compliance with the obligations laid down in the laws of the operator, prescribed by the provisions of this Article, etc. In the exercise of supervision, they have the right to have cable operator, primarily SBB, disobey the law, have the right to warn them, and after that they can order them to lift TV channels that do not respect the Electronic Media Act, REM does not do so. The big question is – why does REM not work for national channels that pay compensation, but works for those who do not pay compensation, which is Solak, Gilas, it is United Group, United Media, SBB, "Cas Media", "Darekt Media", which deals with advertising. What about commercials? Out of the total market, over 20m euros are charged by television channels that pay nothing here. False cross-border and thus end the programme, break the law and broadcast commercials, domestic advertising, by inserting even in Fox channels. They take bread from television channels that pay REM compensation to protect them, and it does not protect them, but by releasing domestic ads on these false cross-border channels further endangers the business of domestic media, not being respected by REM even though they are paying them compensation. Over 100 channels of locals, there are almost no ads, because on the advertising market, they get bread from those who pay nothing, are not registered in Serbia's territory, they don't pay, not only REM, they don't pay Ratel, they don't pay Sokoya, they don't pay other organisations that protect the author's first. That's why the pressure was to supplement and replace REM members for the purpose of Gilasov and Šolak's business. Probably their rem composition doesn't match this time either, since they didn't break the boycott. I say we have no problem with that part of the opposition, that we have a problem, but I've already described what, with Solakov and Gilas's business. And, it's not just REM that breaks the law, it's also the Competition Protection Commission that needs legal channels, like that legal shoe shop that pays everything, to protect against the one who pays nothing, whether the shoe, the trade, whether the tailor, any shop that opens and pays everything. Those on the domestic market have to protect against those who pay nothing, and REM was supposed to protect domestic channels from these wild School pirate channels. That is why I say that these are just the physical workforce of the business that is worth, as Jugoslav Cosic himself, who is financed by Granny Mulaj, the leader of the tropoly mafia with 250,000 euros in the Albanian tropoly mafia, as he himself said in one show, that business is worth 500,000 euros. TV subscription money they pump up on these fake cross-border channels registered in Luxembourg. In Luxembourg, they pay nothing, because they're registered there and they don't broadcast the programme, and in Serbia they broadcast the programme, but they're not registered, so neither country pays anything. The money from the subscription is pumped into these fake cross-border channels and ends up in Solakov and Gilas pockets. The Darekt Media, you know, is related to Gilas, is an integral part of United Media and United Groups, and they are part of the business despite the sales they have made, and this business has been sold by 2.6 billion euros. If REM was doing its job, these fake cross-border channels would have to be registered in Serbia and pay something to this country, not just pumping up the subscription, pumping out money from Serbian citizens. And you think "N1" television is funded by Americans. I've been telling you for over a year that it's funded by our subscribers through cable channels and that part of the SBB's income per user pays "N1" and its fake cross-border channels, and thus pumps out profits and doesn't pay a tax on profits, and since they own these wild, pirated channels here, registered in Luxembourg, the money ends in their pockets. The school has two planes. One is Falcone, the other similar, which is worth 100m euros. Now, REM gentlemen, who will be closely monitored in 2020, except for this financial report, carefully monitor what these fake cross-border channels are doing or be really cross-border channels, so that they can't broadcast commercials or register here and meet all the obligations that meet the domestic televisions that paid 307 million revenues, all 307 million in dinars. If they're already paying REM, then they're paying to protect them from the wild pirate channels that are owned by Solak and Gilas and because of which today I have a rebellion of part of the opposition that doesn't know what they're going to do with themselves, but is patiently working to preserve the business of Gilas and Šolak, and "N1" television, which has shut itself out of the cable market, is only a spokesman, a loud spokesman for the business that is being paid by the Albanian mob for what we have proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71167	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we should formally consider these reports adopted on the Finance Committee and declare the Assembly, or, as the rule has already been established, that the majority should support these reports. We have something here that might be called a farce. When it comes to the functioning of certain commissions and agencies, it is something that came after 2000. They'd call that some common jargon a hollow constructive story that we're listening to here. Why is the hollow constructive? Essentially, the content is hollow, and it has a structure. We have a commission here to deal with securities of value. The commission, based on this financial plan for 2020, should be incomeing not so small funds. Part of the funds, as we heard here earlier, were paid when it was, in order to translate, across the required state, but it was not mentioned that it was also a legal obligation. It is a legal obligation to pay the funds in part into Serbia's budget. When it comes to the functioning of the Securities Commission, it is a purely one formality. We live in reality in Serbia with the largest number of foreign bank financial institutions, when the Central People's Bank should wait for the IMF to make any decision or propose any measure. When the rate of dinar and inflation depends least on ourselves in the sense that any institution, namely the Central Grandmother, will play a decisive role. That's quite clear. We can tell stories here, put on some conditionalally said success, but the fact and essence is that, as far as finance is concerned, Serbia can be viewed as a real colony. Until the IMF approves, until the World Bank approves, there's nothing of it. We're witnesses. When it comes to REM, what we have heard is quite enough to put any serious authority at the helm and to consider what is done in the state of Serbia and who is doing it, who has the right in this way against the law, when it comes to electronic media, to act and behave in Serbia. It's long known that the monopoly has one part been held by George Soros. When it comes to cable TV, when it comes to such a way of broadcasting over cables, it is clear that George Soros has invested huge funds and is holding a monopoly. There was earlier opposition, there were objections, however, silenced the moment Soros became a gentleman, not the older one, but the younger one who made a visit to Serbia. The mother country from which this billionaire is an American, Hungary headed by representatives of its government, leads a uncompromising battle against Soros, arguing that Soros is an ordinary political manipulator who wants only to gain his own profit, or his wealth, and here it is interpreted as someone who is well-intentioned and only Serbia is a minor exception when it comes to the behaviour of Sorosa and his company. It's all clear to the general public that it's being manipulated here when it comes to the control of electronic media, that it's ever since the RRA that was established as a control body, and at the head of that control body there was a priest's face, which was nonsensical, and to be even bigger, everything they did at that time, they just weren't dealing with the basic tasks that were in front of the RRA, they were already dealing with how, how to make as much money as possible, to give themselves as much pay, to receive their friends acquaintances, and then they created these so-called. Deals and political and financial between then-President of the RRA, who is a church dignitary, and a man who today has his own private agency that deals in a way similar to REM and what Soros and others do. From that it can be concluded that nothing has changed, it has only changed in terms of personal and title, instead of RRA, it is REM. When it comes to income, they are also very important, not to say huge. Salaries are just like the previous speaker used to say. Salaries are for the conditions in which we live above all expectations, above normal. For the job being done when they are activated by power, then the highly positioned officials in REM are activated and then they start with their political pamphlets, their political views, and what matters to all of us when it comes to control, when it comes to objective information, when it comes to sanctioning those who do not comply with the law, it is completely lagging behind. Look at the REM report, you'll see how much the emitter has been warned, how much has been punished, and how many has been excluded. It has been noted, for the sake of truth, that several emitters have been punished—none, as far as it is excluded—none, that is zero. We look at everything and everything when it comes to electronic media, when it comes to spit and defile individuals, when it comes to disdaining not only individuals, but also states, all of this is seen on individual electronic media. REM reacts if it activates it, persuasively, if it activates the power. If the authorities don't raise their voice and somehow make an alarm at REM, shut up. We have not seen a number of times when REM representatives enter political controversy with those who complain about the functioning of REM. It doesn't matter if, in this case, they're representatives of the opposition or some other group. It is inadmissible and it is unacceptable for REM representatives to behave that way. And they do not even hesitate against the messengers of the people to behave arrogantly, to behave boldly, and for this they are also well-paid. Look at the education structure, look at how many of them are with suspicious diplomas, and you'll understand everything. It's best to put someone who's been compromised on top of an independent organization like this, whether it's about finance, whether it's about earlier political attitudes or something else, it doesn't matter, it's important that it's compromised, it's very important, because it's easy to control. There's a wild television program here that doesn't pay any taxes, taxes, taxes, and the whole billing on the functioning of such a single television is being transferred to a political level. No one to say -- well wait, gentlemen, you're broadcasting this program here, this program is seen in a certain part of this country, you have to act as the laws of this country require. No, the media campaign is starting, the media campaign polarises the public, etc. and loses what's main, significant revenues are lost when it comes to funding for this country. Private pockets are filling up, but as someone from REM will point out when, the truth works, you look at, none of them are capable, morally or otherwise pure, to point out and say – gentlemen, you have to pay the obligations that the laws provide for, you are not re-emitters, you are someone who is here with his own program, you are someone who makes money on behalf of it, you have to pay this country. What is very important, and not to be forgotten in this debate, is the Agency for Energy's financial report. It is not controversial, it is all envisaged in terms of rebalancing for 2019 and the projection of the 2020 financial plan, but it is a controversial functioning and a question arises in general about the existence of all minority agencies in this country. We also remember today how those who are in power promised to rule by their choice to lead this country, will be abolished by many agencies. And what happened? Here, in the last eight years, we've been witnessing not only that no agency has been abolished, but they've increased the number of agencies. The argument at the time was completely logical, based on reality. They claimed and argued that the agencies were unnecessary when it came to the functioning of the government, a parallel system that was introduced by those from the West in 2000, by the order of the Americans, to control the executive power, so that the merger had no financial resources through these agencies in different funds, in various ways disappearing from the sight and control, etc. And it was all true. And when it was to be realized, we saw an argument -- we can't do it right now, as those in power have explained to us, because it's contrary to the principles of the European Union, and because we won't be able to open up certain chapters, to approach the opening of chapters if we abolish certain agencies, which is a notorious lie, it's completely untrue. Here, when it comes to the control and control role of agencies, Europe and the whole normal world insist on preventing corruption, preventing abuse, and not putting on a parallel system of authorities that will increase corruption, which will increase crime, etc. The Agency for Energy is one of the right examples where public attention is needed. We have been for a long time, not to say for years, listening to and reading reports from the Elektroprivreda Serbia where Serbia's Elektroprivreda complains of huge losses in electricity transmission. Serbia's power grids inform the public that these losses have reached a two-digit percentage. Now look, everywhere in the world, when the loss of power transmission, specifically here, appears more than 5%, that means automation, to turn on the red light, it's an alarm, to search the entire management of all of the single state's electrical systems at all levels, and to determine what's causing so many huge losses. This is what I'm saying for a percent higher than 5%. And with us in Serbia's Elektroprivreda system, Serbia's Power Network has long been a two-digit percentage. How to think, but in a way that makes sense that they're not actually losses, part of it is because of the limitations of the equipment, because of not investing in time, but most of it is, what's called, some benefit. Is this a state benefit, is it a personal benefit, is it a benefit of a group, that should be determined? But there are enough educated people in this country, professional people from that area who have been appealing for many years that something is wrong. Secondly, we have a situation that now that human environment pollution, or our environment, is being updated, we have to think about what's so-called. dirty technology. Serbia has raised huge loans, tasked itself with going into projects, such as thermal power plants, raising new thermal power plants. We in the SRS are telling you, here for more than four years, to take care because it is quite symptomatic when the West warns that Serbia's thermopower plants are the largest contaminants in this region. They're not saying it because part of it might be true, but they're saying it's because they're saying it's a way of producing electricity to declare it dirty technology. When you declare something dirty technology or the price of electricity produced falls, or it's doomed to close. Serbia is not as economically strong as it is shown here that it could withstand either one measure or another. Instead of going to the so-called. healthy technology, a technology that is ecological to electricity production, here's what the Agency was doing, say, at the end of last year. Just a man fascinated should be. The agency published in one of its recommendations to the Serbian population, which are the most efficient heating system and which allows the least money consumption. Here, I'm just in certain parts of what they say is great scientific creation, just to read it to you. The energy agency says – for heating the apartment of 60 m2 at a temperature of 20 degrees over 180 days, 150 kilowatt hours per metre of square or 9,000 kilowatt hours is required. These numbers may bother someone, but it's very interesting how far this scientific work has been achieved. Then he says this: The lowest heating costs will be for those who heat on wood. Imagine what an achievement, what a discovery. A simple man not to believe that this is no longer a scientific term run for office. He says this way -- who takes low-quality wood at a price, imagine this data that is very valuable, of 4,650 dinars per m3 times 180 days, as this warm season is 38,300 dinars. The one that heats up on lower-quality trees. This is all done by the Agency over 50, where you have people who are doctors of science, you have those who are in the master's service, but also those who I assume are really doctoral. When it's warmed up into an expensive tree, imagine what a comparison, what a recommendation, which costs unlike this cheaper one costing 4,650 dinars, this costs 6,350 times 180 days. I'm just wondering how long it took this mathematical operation to carry out. That's 62,000 dinars. Then they give a parallel to what it's going to cost if we heat up on gas, what it's going to cost if we heat up on electricity. The Agency has not said a single word, which is why it is a loss, which is why it is uneconomical use of both networks and power plants and all that is involved in the production of electricity. She didn't give a single word to the Agency to comment on the benefits of using natural gas compared to the offered possibility of using the liquid gas offered to us from America. Not a single word did the Agency say when it comes to the cost-effectiveness of the Turkish current pipeline, and before it was the South Stream, you have no idea that they looked back. You know what their salaries are? The Agency's director and its associates have nearly 3,000 euros per month. Since they're paying 50% of their revenue into the budget, of the surpluses they've made, imagine what they're planning? One capital investment. So much, he says, is being separated from his mouth, buys new cars, they say. It's really good for them. But they can do that, they can behave because it's a general mess when it comes to the functioning of Serbia's electricity and all the systems they supply with energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71169	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Alexandra Tomic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71170	Thank you. Some things really need to be answered with certain facts. When you are tasked with informing the public as a regulatory body, you must also provide the public with certain information concerning, for example, the use of certain energy products when it comes to the population. What they bring as certain information, not as professional analysis in terms of scientific work, as we have had the opportunity to hear, that it is scientific work, it is a higher sense of public information, namely people and populations who may not even understand in this area. That is why it is very important to say that 52% of the population use wood as basic energy during the winter, for which all the expert people in the field of forestry said, we had here in the Serbian Assembly and public hearings and forums on this issue, that Serbia does not use this energy adequately and does not achieve the maximum energy capacity it could use. That's why this analysis of how we use wood as a heating agent shows that we use it much more in an inadequate way than we should, for example, a pellets or a wooden slice. So that's why we really need to educate our population who may not be able to inform at all about this functioning of the way Serbia is used to working so far, where somewhere new technologies are pushing us into this economic growth and development. That is why everything that may seem very strange to you and logically not to be in public, such as what counterpart Mircic has stated, shows in fact that we must deal with new technologies in certain new ways, which is notifying the public, because we are under obligation and have signed somewhere as the third package of adoption of the EU directive in general when it comes to energy and the Energy Act adopted in December 2015. We are currently working on the awareness of Serbian citizens, how we will use renewable energy sources in the future, and how we will use those who are not renewable, and that includes wood and coal. It means how we're going to benefit in the future. Why is it important that the Energy Agency is doing a particular job for which you may now find it unusual? In the end, all that so far, which guidelines must respect, other than those directives for which it is in charge, works also on the basis of guidelines adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to energy policy and which the Ministry of Energy sends to certain acts as an obligation that the Agency must implement. Many of the details that are given in this financial plan that you may not like show what the path is. It is a European path, the use of energy at all, and what they did not, as you say, give some comparative analysis between the offers we have on the energy market, such as liquid gas, such as natural gas, whether it is an offer of the East, the West, cannot work out by the Agency unless the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes that decision. If the Ministry does not seek this kind of analysis, because, you know what, we have decisions that are of strategic importance to this country, if our decision was to build a certain part of the Turkish flow, and by means of the budget that they amount to, I will remind you, 70 million dinars, which is due to pass natural gas, based on which the state will benefit only from the fees and the fees for the transport of that gas, then it is exclusively the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although perhaps we are suffering certain pressures when speaking in relation to the energy community that may have had a different platform when it speaks in general about Serbia's participation in certain connections when it comes to natural gas. But, on the other hand, all of this in further negotiations with the EU has really worked in a certain way for us as the Republic of Serbia to implement in our system, when we speak, and in energy policy, but also for certain investments through infrastructure projects supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But you have a chance to hear that it's done and so on. Diversification of that, say, part of the Turkish flow. Which means that we are in line with certain European policies, that the possibility of acceptance in terms of entering through Serbia, access to natural gas, can come from different networks and streams. This means that we do not want to put our policies on certain sides at all, to enter certain conflicts that are of the current character when it comes to energy between the EU and Russia, but we want to co-operate with everyone. Serbia's national interest is to use natural gas, because of its economy, to use, to earn certain gas pipeline fees that will pass in Serbia's part between Bulgaria's entry, the exit from Hungary, and to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia in our economic sense. It's of great importance to us. The Energy Agency should at any time protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. She, excuse me, until 2015, did not only protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, because she used many taxes, regulations and fees exclusively from EU legislation, which, as Serbia, suffered great pressures, especially when certain financial plans were, not only the Energy Agency, but when in general the legislation relating to the energy policy of the Republic of Serbia had a problem. We're sorry, I'm sorry, we were collateral damage when it comes to the South Side project, I'll remind you of that. So this project was really one of the projects that was also meant to bring Serbia a major improvement in terms of energy policy. This did not occur, of course, because negotiations between Russia and the EU failed, when the project was at stake, and then it joined a completely new redesigning of the negotiations when it comes to gas policy. Simply, Serbia was waiting for the big forces to agree when it comes to it. Secondly, during that time, when it comes to European integration, we were really looking to bring ourselves into line with this European policy. I'm going to remind you of something that may not be so popular today that we're talking in public, but the energy community and the EU are just heading towards adopting a new, fourth, so-called. The green package, when it comes to energy. That's what costs a lot. This is what Germany calls, for example, for its country, an energy transition, but we say that all Western Balkan countries, too, must go in the direction of this energy transition that will involve greater application, i.e. the use of green energy. So far, Serbia, from renewable energy sources, is using 23% of its electricity participation, which shows essentially that we and Gerdap, which is 21.2% of our participation, are actually going towards our strategic goal because we have committed 27% to using renewable energy sources. When you look at that we will have the opportunity to implement and use natural gas, when practically that part of Turkey's flow takes place through Serbia, you will see that simply Serbia will really be on the path of using green energy which, of course, will not be able to support this social price of electricity in the future. Why are we saying that? Because the Agency's been talking about it for the last 10 years. We have the lowest electricity price of all the Western Balkan countries, because our economy can simply support this price of electricity right now. The coordination we are doing is always harmonising based on what is possible when it comes to the revenues and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but what is our comparative advantage somewhere when we talk about foreign direct investment. Investors go somewhere and decide based on that electricity price to really open their factories and new jobs here. Therefore, energy policy directly affects the country's policy, economic policy, our growth and development, and that is what I think was wrong to lead policy at all until 2012, because those who led Serbia, did not lead this policy at all in a responsible way, did not simply want all electricity and connections users in a certain way to notify and collect their claims, and included in the sustainability system, but closed their eyes to certain social categories, so we came to the conclusion that in 2012, a billion dinars were unpaid accounts, which from the economy being made by Serbian citizens. So that amount of money that the budget was supposed to generate, today just doesn't stand, and that's what shows that the policy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible, but also those who ran the energy sector in a certain way we were fixing it. Is that ideal now, of course, that you're always up to 10% in every country having problems in that sector. The Energy Agency is obliged to inform all citizens of Serbia, the population of the use of energy in an adequate manner, with its specific information. You will admit that we are not all able to get that way of notifying and these analysis and that we look at certain, equal to those people in southern Serbia, those in the north, because economic development is of course not the same in the south, north, east and west of Serbia, because the use of energy is not in a certain way the same, because the economic capacity of users and businesses and individuals is not the same, and that may seem strange to you today, which is what we have, the brochures that the Agency is obliged to issue, because we as a state and according to EU directives will respect, inform the public, inform the population, everything that is new in this sector, and that I really think that we should support this Agency in many of our jobs. Today, it's very difficult to find the first people to work in this area. They must, by law, have a minimum of 10 years spent with high expertise in the field of energy to work in this Agency, firstly to run for these people who lead, members of the Council and President of the Council. The second thing, the salaries you're talking about, if you look at these public enterprises that are charged by certain fees to managers who work in certain energy sector areas, they have a much higher salary than the people in the Agency itself. It's very hard to find people who do this job, so they'll have to do this job at all. That's why I don't think that this is the way we should talk about the Agency at all, in terms of a social category, because many experts in this area in co-operation and with the Energy Community really have opportunities to work. I'll tell you that there are a lot of people in the Energy Community who have come from the Agency and are working there as experts, who are then employed as advisors of people who make certain policies. Therefore, it is not our goal to let these people work in a certain way for those international organisations, but to stay in Serbia, to make a full contribution, to create a policy here that will be in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71171	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71172	What is the essence of the existence of the Agency and of the entire energy system is that according to more favourable conditions, not only individuals, or households, can use energy, but also economy. It's the essence of all this. The stories about us having the cheapest electricity, the cheapest energys aren't right. It's not a price parameter in real terms what the price of a cubic meter is, what is the price of kilowatts, but what is the wage, purchasing power of the population. You see how realistic it can be for any citizen who uses any kind of energy based on their incomes, and then compare it with other countries. We don't have to go to Western Europe, here, here in the neighborhood, so you'll see it's not exactly like we have the cheapest energy. Compared to receiving, they're not that cheap. Energy costs are a significant item in terms of economy. What I can agree on is the next paradox – we have the Doctors of Science at the head of the Agency, and at the head of "Electroprivreda Serbia" we have a man who held a barbecue until yesterday. Is that normal? It's not normal. Not because it's not a job that a man needs to do, but it's a matter of understanding. You know, a man like that shouldn't be resented for accepting such a function. You have a series of examples in Serbia where functions are accepted, so what does he care, a diploma comes in the meantime. It's a matter of understanding. This man, who is headed by Elektroprivreda, may know what to do, but he is unable to do. His abilities, both personal and other, are not at that level that he can understand that it is directly to the harm of Serbia's economy, at the expense of every Serbian citizen. Every citizen in his pocket is pulling money to cover his losses at Elektroprivreda. We're not getting along on this, are we? Remember how much we led the controversy around the Bora, so we immediately told you – change the leadership, to which you reacted completely incomprehensiblely thinking that we want to politically score points. You see, when the Chinese came, when the foreign capital came, the management immediately took it off-line, and if they were good, they would have kept it. The bottom line is, I haven't read this about the price of heating to humiliate these people who work in the Agency, some I personally know, I appreciate their work, their knowledge, I've read it to see what the Agency does, and not what it does, essential work. They appeal, warn of great losses, high costs directly related to the price.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71173	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is Aleksandra Tomic, the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71174	Thank you. I'll be very brief. The prices of heating, otherwise, are not obliged by the Agency at all to give, but when the media wants to get certain information they are obliged to respond to the public and should not be hidden. So we're even talking about the price of energy. When we talk about the price of electricity, Serbia has the lowest price of all EU members and Western Balkan countries. We deal with having the lowest price of electricity, but because of that, we suffer certain pressures from the Energy Community. This has been our mission since 2012 and to settle that kind of price. How? By detecting the social categories that simply need to pay lower quotas when it comes to the total electricity bill. What mechanisms should we use to achieve greater energy efficiency, when it comes to life in Serbia at all, means, when it comes to buildings, public buildings, from the state? We also talked about this in forums related to Serbia's energy policy and the greatest participation I think is there and took Mr. Marijan Risticevic, as president of the Committee on Agriculture, who wanted the sector, which was also concerned with energy efficiency by using different kinds of energy products related to agriculture, also generates a certain kind of economic growth and development, where the consciousness of people changes, both in cities and in the village, means, both in the south, so in the north, east, we have to inform the public about everything. Perhaps parliament is not enough to inform about all the novelties, about our path to go, which is why the Agency has committed itself. The state recognized it was supposed to be the Energy Agency, she's doing the job. The attack on people who do that job, in terms of their professions and what they do and they deal with it all their lives, because, you know, those people who opted to do it, they do it in this sector, in general, energy policies literally their entire working life, and they deal exclusively with the profession. I don't think they should be attacked in such a way that they don't do their job well in that sense, but to put them in the function of what this society needs. And we put them on the basis of the decisions and the law that they've defined. A new package of laws that follows us in the future, which costs a lot, not only our country, but all countries in the region and which costs and EU members, is the future in which we will have to pass this green package of laws where the only price of energy will dictate our policy in the area of environmental protection. It's a long, painful and very demanding path that will cause many victims. When I say, victims in terms of the poems of new occupations and the shutting down of some old professions where we as a society will have to educate, educate and change. And that's why I think it's of great importance that we're talking about in parliament at all, because these are not interesting topics for the media, they don't have any news that leads to scandals, so they're going to end up in the media now, so they're going to be read, but they're going to give a very strong way, the way we're going to live in 2030, and it's retail tomorrow, it's almost ten years, but what we're designing today is actually almost tomorrow. This is why it is very grateful to Mr Marijan Rističević, because his Committee recognized that many things should be opened from this area, and even with his subcommittee he opened many topics that may not even be popular today, which are related to a combination of energy and agriculture. Sometimes the ministers of people, you know, and from the field of energy and agriculture why we are opening up some issues here in parliament, but that is essentially the way and way of solving the problems of Serbian citizens in this transformation and the change that awaits us, such as the energy transition which is the way the world will go in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71175	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Right on the replica Marijan Rističević, then Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to complete Mrs Tomic, my efforts in this parliamentary form of energy policy as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, and the Committee is one of the founders of this forum, in order to clarify what it is, I must say that our performance was also about protecting the environment, how to protect the environment, and to produce a larger amount of electricity. The solution is agriculture. The MPs certainly know, especially those living in Vojvodina, that Vojvodina has a million and five hundred thousand hectares of farmland and that it burns or destroys over three million tonnes of plant mass annually. The heat value, the energy value of three million tons, would get a million tons of oil energy value. That's a third of our needs. So, in Vojvodina, it's destroyed or burned, in different ways three million tons of harvest scraps are destroyed, which can give heat values for a million tons of oil, which is one third of our needs. If you burn these harvest remains, is that right, Mrs. Tomic, you pollute the environment and that's important, you felt it last autumn and how you felt, but if you turn it into energy, you get a cleaner environment, and you get a larger amount of green energy that we have to produce at a certain percentage, because it's going to be our obligation. The other thing that people very little know is that, it's a big cry for cars around environmental pollution, but let's say that livestock pollutes air far more than total means of transport, cars, buses, boats, trains, etc., pollutes more environments than a set of vehicles, i.e. passenger, railways, water transport, etc. Why? One cow, now you can laugh, pollute air more than a car that travels 25,000 miles a year, because it's a survivor, and there's a professor of agriculture college, dropping methane. So one amount of methane is worth as 23 amounts of carbon dioxide, but if that methane, which remains in the static fertilizer there, were converted into electricity, would get a few megawatts of electricity, a few tenths of megawatts of electricity, and maybe a few hundred, by processing it as biomass in energy, would be made of gas, or via gas electrical energy. They would also get a better environment through this, but by adding to the diet, a small amount of money to invest, almost 10% and negative emissions would be eliminated if they invested in some means in farmers to cook different livestock.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71177	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Mircic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71178	We've expanded this subject a little bit. The bottom line is that the role of the agency should in itself be multiple, primarily not only when it comes to income in the name of taxis and taxes that those involved in the production and transport of energy should pay 0.9% of transport costs, so they have tariff rates there, but should be controlled. This is all true. There are alternative sources of energy, biomass, wind generators, all of this is true, but this is about the next one -- we are closing our eyes to the fact that "Electroprivreda Serbia" is actually making us great losses when it comes to energy transmission, which is absolutely unbeliefable. A man can't believe such a loss can be. That's over 15%. At 3% of the loss in the "Electro Network" around the world, they're responding, and it's been going on here for years, and nobody's humiliating anybody here, and they don't want to underestimate those people who are in the agency. On the contrary, we merely point to a simple fact. We have a system that works in this country called executive power. The government should take care of everything, and for energy, the resolution ministry is in charge of energy. Now, look at the educational and every other structure in the agency and look at the ministry. Take a look at public enterprises dealing with the transport or production of energy, and look at the agency. Why did I set this example around a huge tree? Because it's paradoxical all this is happening. These people deal with such things as are important to each individual in Serbia, but they need to deal with far more seriously. These people are engaged in one way or another in the seminar work, by their perfection, but it has no effect when it comes to the reaction of the executive authority, when it comes to the reaction of the Ministry of Energy. I told you that the man who keeps the roaster at the head is "Electroprivreda of Serbia". He may have worked as an electric engineer in the roastery, but he'd been away from the profession for a long time. He had to go through this phase that was being passed by by those working at the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71179	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71180	In order to inform the public with the truth, the losses of the ESM Public Enterprise were 2.13% in 2018 and the estimate for 2019 was 2.08%. So we're talking about losses in the "Electro Network". What has been done since 2012, the information you give is probably obsolete, because much has been done in the investment area in terms of infrastructure, the replacement of the network, and that is why we now have reduced losses in the network. When we talk about the price of electricity, the price of electricity is the smallest for the Western Balkans region as well. So, the price of electricity in Serbia is 7.34 Eurocent per kilowatt. For Northern Macedonia and Turkey, it is 7.87, and for BiH, which is already at 8.47 euros per kilowatt hour and finally we go to Albania, which is 8.70, where we reach developed countries, where Ireland has 24.23 euro cents per kilowatt hour electricity price. What I'm trying to say is that as a country, we have the lowest price of electricity for both the region and the Western Balkans, and obviously this applies to the whole world. Why is that? Because we have invested a lot when it comes to infrastructure and we have invested a lot when it comes to the awareness of Serbian citizens. You remember in a political sense that we had some political entities before 2000, who said that citizens shouldn't pay electricity, that bills should be put into barrels and that they burn those accounts, so when the time came after 2000, that the same things came to you and the government of Serbia, then all these debts were just on the burden of all Serbian citizens who listened to those irresponsible politicians. What I mean to tell you is that in general, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to establish one responsible policy together with the citizens of Serbia when it comes to energy and that what we need to do is that the standard of Serbian citizens is always higher and we have shown these results that the average salary of over 500 euros is better than that of 320, that the price of electricity did not go in proportion to the average wage and the minimum personal income, that the percentage increase in electricity that we wanted to show that we cannot lag behind in the price of electricity, type 50% compared to the next one, but we have to be smaller by the shade, but we have to increase, we have to go from 1% to 5%. Therefore, I think we have established a real, real state of affairs for now, when it comes to the price of electricity and the standard of Serbia's citizens. Is that enough? I'm sure he didn't. We will fight for Serbia's citizens' standards to be higher and it is precisely the plan of Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to raise the standard of citizens by 2025, to make the average salary for five years 900 euros and that is our strategic goal. To that strategic goal, when you have a high standard, of course it's much easier for you to pay for utility and therefore the price of electricity is now proportional to the possibilities of our economy. When we talk about humane solutions, if those humane solutions weren't so good, we wouldn't have these results, when it comes to energy policy and the economic power of the state at all. So, did anyone work and where he worked before he came to this position, whether he had certain experiences, this shows exactly the results of his work. Therefore, the results speak of us not having any more losses, because if we had lost the Law on Public Enterprises, they could no longer be the directors of these public enterprises. Therefore, I think today's debate has shown that we can discuss Serbia's future and for that future we have a plan, and this plan shows exactly these results -- reducing loss costs, reducing the possibility for Serbian citizens to pay their bills, increasing revenues when it comes to serviceing these accounts, defining social categories that cannot pay a full price for electricity. They have certain subsidies that the state touches and electricity prices in the region and EU countries are the lowest. And we have new jobs, which are simply foreign and domestic investors somewhere stimulate to open because these costs are even lower than in some other countries. So I think this debate has shown that it still makes sense to talk about improving this sector and that the state is actively working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71181	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71182	It's hard to follow the point after this exposure. The point is what we're suggesting, which is that the Agency has to play a completely different role in all of this. The whole energy supply system must be organised differently, and you, after all, know what you say was your opponent, so you had a coalition partner who was against South Stream in the last term. He wasn't hiding it. Mladjan Dinkic, the one that is now universal for traffic. Those who, Joseph Broz, understand everything and know nothing, were against the South Stream. They didn't hide it. The Russian delegations even spoke openly to representatives of Serbia. Who's against South Stream? What is there, changed, now we have this Turkish current, we should not be disappointed, but there are rumors, which suggest that the Turkish flow is not so cost-effective when it comes to Serbia. The Energy Agency should come out, if not already the Agency, then the Energy Minister should come out with that elaborate. What you're saying, colleague, is no matter who did what, it may be in the general sense of the word, but when a man is away from the profession for a long time, when he deals with fat, when he deals with the quality of the roasting, don't tell me that he can suddenly get into the quality of electricity transmission overnight. Don't tell me that. Maybe so, but it's not Nikola Tesla. There are those who say, comparisons do, don't just get it wrong, we've been looking at the light bulb our whole life, so we're not Nikola Tesla, so so is he. He can't be an expert on the universal category. The main thing is that these are losses in the transmission of electricity, not general losses due to the quality of the power grid, due to subquality of trafo cells, subsystems that are in the electricity transmission system, etc. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71183	Thank you, Mr. Snotty. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71184	We can't seriously argue with certain trivialities, label people in certain ways that can't really be part of a serious debate. What we're comparing certain directors of public enterprises with Nikola Tesla, so you know, in his time too, it wasn't recognized that he was now some scientist of great importance, but in the paper they said he was a crazy electrician. That's what you have in the 1938 paper. So his work and his knowledge were recognized only, practically, before the end of his life. So, what do I want to tell you? I want to tell you that the easiest thing to do is to label people that they don't know and have nothing to do, and the results have completely something else to show, and then when a certain number of decades goes by, you only see, in fact, that based on the results of certain people really have achieved a lot. After all, no director, no minister, unless it is part of a team to implement a successful state policy, in any segment, whether it is energy, education, justice. So, you need a team, you need to make simple collective decisions, and what you're sure of is that in many of these competences, you haven't seen how separate the powers of the Energy Ministry and the Energy Agency are. Many of the things you're talking about are within the power of the Ministry of Energy itself. The supervisory role of public enterprises is by the Ministry of Energy, and earlier it was, for example, when it comes to public enterprises and the Ministry of Business. So, the Serbian government itself is practically the institution responsible for the work of public enterprises. The agency has just become essentially one of the institutions that needs to deal with a certain type of business in the most professional way possible and that part of the professionalism it does. Their task is to constantly improve when it comes to their profession and to certain tasks that are not done by the Government, the Agency itself. For example, the price of electricity and an increase in electricity prices goes to the Agency's proposal, in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He formally puts forward a proposal, and the government adopts or does not adopt the proposal. In order for them to make the proposal, they must, on the basis of certain analyses that public undertakings themselves make to the public's decision-making boards when they adopt the EPS, make up the proposal of agencies and make that decision on their own. I want to tell you the complexity of the decisions made by the agency itself. Therefore, in a certain way we should no longer talk about the agency's work at all. Can we talk about the financial plan whether he's good or bad, whether you like the level of salary that people who work at the Agency have is the topic we can talk about here, but what the Agency's competences are exactly defined by the law and they do. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71185	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71186	Mr Marinkovic, you are not the beginner of this practice that really has nothing to do with respect for the democratic rights of MPs and MPs, because for the public to know and to remind the MPs, the authorised representative and the representative of the act has practically unlimited time and to report when he asks for a word, but that does not mean that this refers to the exposure in this case, Mrs Tomic, when it comes to the replica process. You, as chairman, who until now have always respected what is a replica and what is the appearance and circles of replicas that can last until a certain moment when it is no longer, until that circle of replicas is simply exhausted. Now we have a situation that Mrs. Tomic answers and it lasts and lasts. She's actually reporting for a replica of her colleague Mircic, who says she doesn't even know what she started, or how she ended her thought, because there's no end to it. She spoke now for almost four minutes, seven, eight minutes before that. It is not just about her, when it comes to replicas, and the MP is responding to a presentation, or an authorised representative of the motion to present MPs, you must treat both the MP and the one who appears. The second is to report, as the Rules of Procedure puts it, at the moment when he asks for a word, he will now speak after Mr Zukorlic, and after him, if he has something further to say to this proposal, but to appear at replicas in a way that abuses the right of the authorised proposer of the act, it is really pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71187	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, although there's a lot of logic in what you're saying, but that's what the Rules of Procedure is. You have said well – the promoter when he asks for a word, I am obliged as chairman and everyone else to give him the word, although it may be possible, there is logic in what you say that sometimes MPs in that exchange replica can come into an unequal position because of the time they have at their disposal, but such is the simple Rules of Procedure, although perhaps we can agree that it is not good and that it may need to be changed in that domain. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71188	It's amazing that on February 13, 2020, you say, maybe the Rules of Procedure aren't good. Well, why didn't you change it? So this is an abuse and violation of the rights of the MPs that they have, in particular, of us who are the only true opposition in the National Assembly and where we are limited to a replica of two minutes compared to a proposing who can speak hypothetically 10 times more.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71189	Thank you. That's why we're trying to give you replicas and always the opportunity and opportunity to speak. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. Thank you. Let's get on with the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71190	Since no more of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president appear, we are moving to debate in order of the MPs. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71191	Dearly present, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly need to give support to both the media sector and the energy sector and through financial plans and understanding of their needs, although we have some problems that we are facing. So, as far as REM is concerned, our experience in recent years is not good, and I think we should focus on that in the immediate future, especially when it comes to certain media abuses related to the elections. We've repeatedly reacted to REM. But either we had in most cases non-response and non-response, sometimes some general reactions that were pointless and unsupervised. As far as the Public Service is concerned, we have talked about this several times, and we cannot reconcile with this subject being overcome, as we cannot reconcile to the fact that the issue of the Public Service is only relevant to the relationship between the government and the opposition, because this topic in some way overshadows everyone else. I disagree with those who claim that RTS's problem is related to political influence on the side, either by the authorities or by any other political factor. It seems to me like some kind of feudal stock company. There whoever caught what from the editors and the powerful man within the Public Service, he sovereignly rules his work, he calls on whoever he wants, ignores whoever he wants and from the position of the Bosniak national community we have great regrets and because of the persistent refusal to respect the Constitution of the guaranteed rights of the National Bosniak Community in terms of media representation and language and through the emissions that would be defined by the presentation of Bosniak culture. As far as the energy sector itself is concerned, since I am particularly familiar with the Sandzak area, there are a number of problems we are facing. Let's say we have the subject of Tutin's trafo station, here's my tutin again, which, unfortunately, I'm mostly referring to in a negative context, which has been being solved since the 1980s. The trafo station, as we were told, simply, and the non-resolvement of this problem questioned the entire electricity supply system in Tutin, and also threatened the new market power system. True, we finally have good news that it's headed towards the realization of this project. The Justice and Reconciliation Party directly participated in solving property-legal problems related to the location. That's one good news. For some, too, the good news, given that we had the rule of the SDA party there for 20 years, then in that case obviously the citizens didn't need any water, no good electricity, since they had SDA, since we now have a break-up of the SDA in Tutin and beyond, in the Sandzak area, then we will be obliged, in exchange for the SDA, to provide the citizens with electricity and water, and we will certainly be actively involved, as I do through this discussion. But we also have certain other problems with the system's obsolescence. Let's say, in the New Market industrial zone, we have an inefficient solution to the problems that have been encountered. Since we once had an industrial zone with several large business entities, they are now settled through privatisation or some other forms of transformation and property by various other economic operators, so we have a case where dozens of legal, or economic operators are attached to one number. And if one or some of them don't pay for the electricity, the power's off to everyone else. It's unacceptable for anyone, especially now in the 21st century. That's why I urge and insist that Electrodistribution access to solving these problems more actively. It's true, in contacts, these people with the Power distribution have constant announcements -- it's a new network, it's a being. However, years pass, these people cannot carry out their activities and their obligations and their rights, given the problem. In general, we have a delay in establishing the vital network of Electrodistribution. That's why it's important to focus on it. And we as a political subject will be a constructive partner and try to help as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71192	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71193	Two days ago, an air pollution debate took place in a small hall. Some of those attitudes we heard here today in the debate. But I'd like to show Sasha Dimitrijevic's cartoon from the People's Newspaper from Nis, please let the camera zoom in, which is just showing how responsible this problem is. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71194	Comrade Chevarlich, please speak on the subject of the agenda. When they're on the caricature agenda, I don't mind. Should I remind you what's on the agenda? On the agenda is the Financial Plan of the Securities Commission, the agreement on the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, the agreement on the rebalancing of the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency and the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. (Miladin Ševarlic): Did you ask everyone to do the same? I don’t know what my colleague asked me to do before my session, but I now draw your attention to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71195	I hope, Mr. Vice President, that the citizens will see how you discriminate against one opposition MP, but the citizens will assess it. So, when it comes to the body that needs to be controlled by public services, there was a heated debate here, and we had the chance that one of the few candidates, who advocated the national views of Serbs, could not at all come to terms, and that was Dragomir Antonic, a well-known ethnologist, a man who was present in the public, performed various functions, etc. He couldn't even make it to the first round of the candidate's election. I thank the SRS for proposing and having the feeling that at least one candidate who protects national interests, because we have so many promises that are not fulfilled, when it comes to the protection of national interests, and these topics are not present at public service and the question is whether any of the newly elected, or those chosen for that body, will ask a question, let's say, what happened to the Cyrillic Act and organise a debate on this at public services, etc. When it comes to the Energy Agency, here's a question, please, for all those who take care of it. These are photos from Balevec on Ibra. What's burning in there? How many people are sick and dead because of what's burning there? Look at what the environment looks like and what security looks like. Look beyond what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71196	Comrade Chevarlic, I have to ask you something – do you know that there is an Agency for the Protection of the Environment?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71197	I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71198	Is it on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71199	The Energy Agency, it is. I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71200	Don't talk about energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71201	I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71202	You're saying a whole tenth thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71203	Probably by burning waste, you get some energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71204	Burning everything and getting everything energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71205	I'm asking why the waste is being burned.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71206	Anything you burn, you get energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71208	There's a special body that cares about protecting the environment. So don't mix your grandmothers and frogs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71209	You have allowed all MPs to cross over, replicas above two minutes, in even five minutes and none of the MPs have been warned not to stick to the subject, and they have often spoken out of subject, and I who have no right to ask a question at all, because I am an independent and non-partisan MP and I do not have such a right under the Rules of Procedure, you limit me to ask any question. After all, let me answer the question that was the subject of the debate at the last session. This is a document I got from Boris Malagurski and I'm going to contribute him to be an integral part of the record. I ask you to analyse and see that I was right when I spoke when members of individual political parties advocate an anti-constitutional solution to the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. I will make this available to the citizens on my Facebook pages, at press conferences and in the public, as well as how they have advocated against the neoliberal model of engagement, and today you are applying yourself to our practice in a warm way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71210	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71211	Whoever understands, they'll talk. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, let's say, Kosovo declared independence in 2008, before that was the pogrom in 2004, and some MPs remembered Kosovo and Metohija, forgetting that they were on the list, the electoral list of those who watched the silences and the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, did not even seriously frown on the Kosovo Albanians, or those who helped them. They actively participated in the construction of an independent Kosovo and Metohija. Today, the 18th state is on the verge of withdrawing this recognition and, behold, at a time when it was, was, when Montenegro was being separated, when they were power, nothing bothered them, especially those who were on the electoral list in the last elections right on the side of those who were then ruling. That is why I am simply amazed, and that is why I said, "Whoever understands will understand?" I'm not entirely, except I know that two mosques have been burned, just as bad as we are, like the ones who set fire to dozens of churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, in our southern province. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly harvest remains have something to do with energy, and I support a previous colleague, with him not talking about it being an energy potential, so I'm going to give a little lecture. So, that all these harvest remains, which I've been trying to try, are being used in the production of electricity, in the production of gas, and so our imports are being reduced, that this country is progressing, and lately it's doing so. Just to inform our citizens, our farmers that the price of electricity, renewable energy from agricultural resources, from harvesting scraps, from biomass, from permanent manure, that it has a price, a production price of triple the so-called. Fielding tariff, if I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Tomic. So this energy produced from agriculture will be our farmers' right to enter a fiding tariff, that is, at a triple price compared to the one paid for the production of other electricity. We advise our farmers to, compared to, raise new farms outside populated areas, raise energy farms, even combined to be solar energy producers, to be able to be a producer of biomass energy that will have a triple tariff and what does not make possible in livestock production through energy production, such as in Germany, Mrs Tomic, so you have co-operation with them, therefore, what is not produced through agriculture, plant production, through livestock production, this income will be increased through the production of energy, and unless you have made enough money on meat, milk and eggs, you will certainly increase your profits by energy production, and by doing so, what is said, our environment will be cleaner, because it will not burn hundreds of thousands of tonnes of biomass, harvests, or millions of tonnes, as it burns at this point alone in the Duke. We'll be less dependent on import land than energy. We can thus heat the inhabited places that are not covered by gasification, to reduce gas imports through harvest residues. More positive effects can be achieved, but this should be invested. Now the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to respect the fiding tariff. So she's extended twice, and I believe that this extension will be even bigger. It has extended the possibility that, as a farmer, you can produce both electricity or gas compared to cattle and thus increase your income from livestock and be well placed, restore the machinery, etc. All cattlemen are former warlords. Our war production is too large, and livestock production does not satisfy 0.33 hectares per hectare, it does not satisfy an EU average of one that only if we raise one throat, conditionally per hectare, or two thirds of how much we are not now, we would have new over three million conditional throats, and thus the potential, not only of meat production, milk, eggs, would grow, but of renewable energy production, and so this country would benefit multiplely, would reduce imports, increase exports, increase production, mean intensive agricultural production, because this is a series of effects that the government of the Republic of Serbia seeks, unlike those seen in agriculture only through consulting services, take 62,000 euros in livestock, and then say that on the Old Mountain, there are no more cattle and the project ends with consulting services, i.e.e. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71212	Right on line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71213	Thank you very much. I don't know who took 60,000 euros for consulting services, it would be nice if there was such a possibility in Serbia, but there is no truth, there is a lie and there are irresponsible statements of individuals. When the amount on the invoice is treated as personal income, not as receiving the whole team, but it should serve them honor. That's why there's another saying - to tell you the good man you're not. Furthermore, I agree that energy is a key issue in agriculture, but agriculture is disabled with diesel fuel prices and we are one of the few countries where there is no regression for diesel fuel, or until one year ago, and now is a minor of 1,000 per hectare. Although we did have time during that former socialist regime as many as 50 liters of diesel fuel per hectare of gratis. Furthermore, there is an inexhaustible source of energy that this government does not care about. For example, in Vranjska Banj you have a hot water source with 98 degrees on your way out of the well and that water literally flows into the water streams, not used as energy for heating plastics and producing vegetables, fruits, etc. It's a similar situation at the base of the bathroom where you have 78 degrees in... . Banji, and we import vegetables for tourists in Kopalnik. Also, there is a similar situation in the Sword even though something more is used there. The question arises how can we encourage this if in the 2025 investment plan, which is pompously announced with 14 billion euros, you have only 300m euros, or 2.14% for agriculture, i.e. the agro business sector. Isn't it the most profitable investment to invest in the exploitation of these hot springs, where we need to know that where we paid tens of thousands of euros for a job, where workers stand next to those boards and weave cables in three different colors, in tens of years or fifteen most of the most disabled work, because they will have expanded veins and will not be able to withstand that pace of work and these working conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71214	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71215	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I've deposited after, I don't know, four times proving and showing documents, the deputy secretary is here, it's deposited in the National Assembly Archives. All the data was authentic, and there's no problem. The fact that the team leader charged for the team, I don't even know which team leader he was, right now I won't even know about the replica or who the team leader was, I said it like that. Maybe someone's overrun, but 62,000 euros has been charged. You know what for? For the development of indigenous livestock in the Old Mountain through cooperatives. You were supposed to write 1,000 studies. A thousand small studies to write, the value of each is 62 euros when you calculate it. The problem is, the money was paid, and I kept looking for that study printed, even if I could find five copies. I haven't found one anywhere, but to be clear. If you go to buy the collected works of Ivo Andric, if you take Crnjanski, you take the most expensive literature of our local writers, meaning the collection of works, you will get a lower price of 62 euros. So one set you can safely buy under 10,000 dinars, if you buy it whole. But being the most expensive one for a small study, the most expensive Serbian writer, is an undertaking. That's why our agriculture fell and stagnated until 2012. As for subsidies, again, in 2012, in the last year of their government, the total amount of subsidies was 19 billion dinars, the number of users was about 70,000 agricultural holdings. Now subsidies from 40 to 43 billion, i.e. from 105 to 125%, are increased in agriculture, the number of users is around 340 to 350 000. That speaks enough of who is the attention, which the government paid to agriculture in total. One more thing, I haven't been able to find any information as much as I invested in cattle, whether cows were subsidized with 25,000 dinars, sows with 7,000, pan-heroes with 15,000 dinars, etc. I didn't find any information that 5,500 young people in one year received 70% vomiting, or that they received up to a million and a half dinars irrevocably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71216	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71217	Thank you. As far as farmers have gone well, you can tell from the data, how low the number of agricultural holdings is. If they were so good, why did they disappear from the price of food production? So, the 220 thousand family agricultural holdings are gone. It's practically 2,200 villages with 100 family owners. It would be an extremely important village for future development. Unfortunately, we no longer have agricultural holdings, at least in that number. Secondly, when it comes to subsidies, it is true that they are absolutely increased and it is true that they are also subsidized tractors, but whose tractors? Where is what has been destroyed in the previous regime and what has been destroyed in this regime? No IMT, no Dragon, no mineral fertiliser industry, Azotara Panchevo, no powders, only re-scheduled production in Šapec, and not to mention how much less the share of our seed producers under the pressure of foreign competitors is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71218	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with 700, it seems to me that 80,000 landowners have fallen to about 600,000 agricultural holdings during their rule. So he fell, say, 150 grand. During this government, the fact is that the number of agricultural holdings has dropped by 50,000, but the average age in the country is 62 years, the average age, which means that there are older than 90, of 86 years, etc. Some of them, unfortunately, have passed away. The road from the village, where I live, the road from the village leads in two directions. One leads to the cemetery, the other leads to large cities. So, the road from the village where I live leads to the cemetery and to the cities. I'm still in the country. I can only go to the cemetery from there. Some who have gone into town now talk about how the number of agricultural holdings has decreased. Lately, it's been shrinking exclusively because people died. But some who live in the city, who don't want to return to their property, now resent us who haven't even moved, and fortunately we haven't yet died, why the number of agricultural holdings has fallen. So, he fell down because people died, but let's ask how by 150,000 he fell before this power, three times more. What happened to that? Was agriculture better then, or is it now? Unequivocally, subsidies are up by 120%. We will set out in the future no matter how much we require it to be submitted. This year it takes 42,000,000. If more demands are filed, we'll pay 50. The treatment at the Agrarian Payments Authority may be somewhat slower due to a limited number of employees, but all who have applied and met the conditions will not be selected a la Zivkovic, there will be no selections and there will be no la development of indigenous livestock farming on the Old Mountain for 63,000 euros of consulting services. It won't be, but the subsidies for farmers will continue to be as much as they submit, but they'll break the 43,000 million. If they apply for 50,000 million, they will receive 50,000,000,000, unlike those who made the selection and received privileged farmers and La Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71220	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71221	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, as our authorised representative, Snezana Paunovic, said, I will look back at the Agency for Energy's financial plan in my presentation. The Energy Agency was established by the Energy Act in 2004. The Agency shall be a regulatory independent body from the authorities of the executive authority, but also from all other national authorities, organisations, legal and natural persons engaged in energy activities. The Energy Act in 2014 extended both competences and strengthened the Agency's independence. The agency is run by the Agency's Council, elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The President and members of the Agency's Labour Council and their work shall be responsible for the National Assembly, which shall report annually on the work to be carried out and the report on the state of the energy sector. The Agency’s work is part of regulatory activities in the field of electricity, natural gas and oil and oil derivatives. The most important jobs are licensing and certification, price regulation, energy market surveillance, complaint resolution, customer protection and international activities. The Agency’s working resources shall be provided from the revenue generated by the Agency on the basis of the performance of the regulatory, licensing and other revenue operations in accordance with the Law and shall be agreed upon by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee. The Energy Agency planned revenue for 2020 by 1% higher than the revenues planned in 2019. The proceeds are planned from the issue of the licence. This fee shall be determined on a one-off basis, refers to the entire period of validity of the 10-year licence and shall be charged at the time of submission of the application and the participation in the total structure of the Agency’s income shall be 8.9%. The revenue from regulatory fees shall be charged to transmission operators, i.e. transport operations of 1% of the value of the approved operating costs of depreciation and transfer to regulated resources of the frequency of this revenue, in the total income structure is 79% and 88%, respectively, observed in relation to business income. There's still income from donations, refunds, some other financial revenues. The expenditure in 2020 is planned on the basis of the scale and structure of expenditure which was in 2019 and should provide funds to cover the most necessary costs for the functioning of the Energy Agency. In the total expenditure structure, according to the Agency's proposal for this financial plan, the most significant item is the cost of profit of 56.84%, costs and leases of 8.31%, immaterial costs of 7.24% in total expenditure. In the end, I would like to commend the initiative submitted by the director of "Serbian Gas", Dusan Bajatovic, who directed the initiative towards both the government and local self-governments in order to affect the maximum number of users joining the gas. The gas connection currently stands at 120,000 dinars in Belgrade, which could be 650 euros, with "Serbian gas" irrevocably lending users through gas bills over a period of three to five years. Belgrade is planned to be completely shut down by 2022. Currently, there are 30,000 connections, and the potential and what could be achieved in Belgrade itself is 311 000 connections. When it comes to Novi Sad, there are 65 connections and there are much greater potentials in the matter of households. When these fees are added that are due to pay by those interested in joining the gas network, it comes out at the end of up to 200,000 dinars, so it is certainly this proposal sent by the director of "Serbian Gas", Dusan Bajatovic, for praise and not only when it comes to heating, but indirectly in this way it would reduce pollution in Belgrade itself, but also in our Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71222	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71223	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens, I will begin by saying that I support the Commission's proposal for a budget of values submitted on 29 November 2019. They are based on the results of the previous three years and show that revenue in 2020 should be higher by 19.24% than planned in 2019 on the basis of compensation, resulting from the adoption of the tariff rules. It is important to stress that the Commission is a completely financial independent institution, or not dependent on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is extremely important that the amendments and additions of the Law on Public Debt, Investment Alternative Funds and the Capital Market Act allowed us to increase the availability and expansion of potential investors' databases in government securities, which is a great success for our country and confirms that we have acquired and maintain financial stability, and thus trust investors in our securities of value. I remind citizens that Serbia returned to the international capital market last year. We had two important bond missions of a billion and 550m euros with a historic low interest rate of 1.2%. We had a bond show where Euro nominateds for a 20-year period and dinars for a 12-year period, which, of course, speaks in favour of strengthening investor confidence. Why can we say that all standards of the developed capital market are met? It was precisely because the lost trust of foreign and domestic investors was a key problem in the Serbian market. In addition, we are working intensively on a strong regional integration of the capital market, which is why we can be prepared for any financial crisis. Today, capital in Serbia is no longer expensive. Companies get more favourable loans at much lower interest rates. The money we invest is concrete projects, projects that lead to increased competitiveness, growth of economies and economies, contributions to stability and peace, and all this creates an attractive climate for new investors. In 2019, we have direct foreign investments amounting to 3.8 billion euros and we are proud that in the last three years Serbia is for the second time a world leader in attracting foreign direct investment. That is why intensive investment is being invested in infrastructure and the creation of a better business environment, which is the reason for new foreign investment and the creation of new factories and new jobs. This government has shown its ability and determination to implement essential reforms that have led to economic progress and major changes in our way of life. Real GDP growth in 2019 compared to the same period of the previous year was over 4% and this is the result of faster growth in construction and fixed investment. That is exactly what indicators and the results of the reforms that began before and continued this government. Today, we are proud of the fact that we are getting confirmations from world financial institutions about the proper economic policy that guarantees stability and business security. Serbia is recognised as an attractive country for investors who want to invest in their capital. We are at the head of the ranking list by the number of foreign investments for 2019. On the Doing Business List of the World Bank for 2020, Serbia progressed four places and now ranks 44th, out of 190 countries in the world. Last year we were 48. We're still best placed in the category of building permits, where we're the ninth in the world. Serbia has been in the world's top 50 countries for the third year in a row under business conditions. Just a few years ago we lived in a country that was on the financial bottom, in every sense of these words. Billions of robbed euros, plannedly ruined privatisations, destroyed businesses are only part of the issuing-interests done by Democrats. The names and misdeeds of these tycoons should not be forgotten for the sake of truth and justice, for one day they will have to sit before the court of mobsters who have dealt with the economy in their account to destroy the homeland of our ancestors. Today, citizens see that Serbia is changing, recognising work and have shown this by their trust that they gave us at the most difficult times, when Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy. Over the past few years, it has been proven that the policy direction led by President Vukic is correct, leading to the full stabilisation of public finances and ensuring stability for growth in the years and decades to come. I deeply believe that this is the only time for the Serbian economy to fully recover and allow our children a beautiful and secure future in Serbia. In the voting day, I will support all the proposals for financial plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71224	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71225	Thank you. Every body that is in the interest of citizens is very important and is very useful. By definition, REM, like any other body or agency, should be an independent, independent body that protects the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens and their common interests in accordance with the Constitution and laws. Unfortunately, we had different experiences in the previous period, we had even those cases when the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia were threatened by certain media. REM does not respond to this, as was the case in the RTS case and the Bosnian-language redistribution requirement, where both the RTS Council and the anti-constitutional and all possible legislative regulations responded inappropriately, insulting feelings and national rights, individual and collective, Bosniak as citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a very brutal and unfair manner. The Regulatory Body for Electronic Media was then really required to respond and protect, above all, the Constitution, protect the laws of the Republic of Serbia and protect the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to what belongs to them under the Constitution and by the laws. Unfortunately, we did not have this, as we had many times in previous years, especially when it comes to election cycles, that REM is not responding in good time and is not responding in accordance with its powers to prevent, especially on regional and local televisions, brutally violating all possible codes and thus encouraging local tycoons and powerful men who have visited television, to violate the dignity of their political insolents, to go beyond all possible boundaries and political competences to brutal media harangas and campaigns, but also any other normal relationship. Therefore, this body should be a correction of all those deviations that occur in society and which in any way are the result of abuse, i.e. the use of the media as levers of power with regard to the achievement of certain political or other objectives. It would therefore be very important and therefore these changes that are happening are very important for REM to finally be impartial, to be a strong mechanism, above all, to protect the Constitution, to protect the laws and rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of political membership, regardless of religion, regardless of national and any other membership. For such REM, for this type of body we will always give support and we will always vote, not just us, but such REM will support any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we haven't had that kind of experience in the previous period, and that's something that's a fact, so here and today we're talking as MPs here to wake up the alarm of those who have been in REM, especially those who will be in this very important agency in the coming period to really be at the defender of the protection of each individual's honor and dignity, every individual and finally on the defender of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. That is why, in the voting day, we will also support this financial plan and, of course, at the next session, also support the envisaged changes, believing that we will finally be on the way to bring this institution into line with those institutions that deserve the respect of all citizens and which are as such a very important instrument of defence of the individual, defence of the Constitution and order and defence of each of us as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71226	The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71227	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing, among other things, giving consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. At its meeting on 2 December last year, the Finance, Republic budget and public spending control discussed the proposal for a financial plan of the Energy Agency in detail and proposed that the Assembly make a positive statement on that financial plan. Since I have full confidence in the work of the Committee and its members, today I am not going to talk about the figures listed in the Financial Plan, but I would only talk about the Energy Agency. The agency was founded in 2005, based on the Energy Act. This agency is a regulatory body which has competences in the electricity, natural gas, oil and oil sectors, as well as heat produced in power plants and heat plants. The main task of the Energy Agency is to carry out the tasks assigned to it by law, which is to contribute to the creation of a stable regulatory framework for the development of an efficient and sustainable energy sector that will be a reliable basis for the economic development of the country. Without a stable energy sector, there is no stable industrial production, and without industrial production and the creation of new values, there is no stable economic development. That is why the existence of the Energy Agency is very important for the country's stability and economic progress. How important energy is for all of us the best we can see when for some reason there is a power outage, for a few hours or for a few minutes. We've become so dependent on electricity that the moment the supply breaks down, it seems to us that life in our environment is stopping, even though that supply disruption doesn't last forever. That's why the Energy Agency has a significant role to play for all of us. The Energy Agency shall carry out the following tasks: price regulation, licensing of energy subjects, decision-making by appeal, surveillance of the energy market and implementation of international agreements. The above-mentioned jobs show that the Agency's work affects all of us, so at the beginning of the presentation, I note that I am not going to deal with the figures in the financial plan, but rather with the desire to point out that the Agency for Energy must look at all the parameters and make decisions and recommendations that will take into account and the paying power of the population, but also to determine the correct price of energy, so that consumers are satisfied, but that energy and energy distribution and energy distribution are performed uninterruptedly. Of course, it must also be kept in mind that the need for energy is growing every day and it is necessary to invest in production and distribution systems in good time. The Agency for Energy has a difficult task, but with timely and real consideration of energy needs and rational consumption, we expect that in the coming period we have enough energy and energy at real prices, both for households and for industry. In the voting day, I will support the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71228	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71229	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, today is also on the agenda of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. For the sake of the public, I must say that the Board of Regulators first adopts the financial plan, and this was done in October 2019 for the financial plan of 2020, but that the agreement of the National Assembly is necessary in order to implement this plan. The problem arises when the financial plan does not get consent, and then the financial plan must be applied in the current year from the previous year. This certainly will not be the case this year, and especially would be a problem because this is an election year and that means, if the financial plan does not get consent, it would have to apply the 2019 financial plan. The plan does not plan funds for monitoring television and radio programmes in order for the electoral process to take place in accordance with the law and regulations governing this area. It often happens that REM achieves a surplus in its business, and we have often heard from the opposition that REM is financed from the budget, which is not true. REM is financed from its own resources, i.e. from revenue which charges media service providers for a solution for the right to provide media services, of course in accordance with the law. It depends on which category the media service provider is, depends on both the height and the compensation. In the past 11 years, REM has invested 1,328,551,794 dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is noteworthy that these funds are allocated to four equal works and are used to develop and improve culture, improve education, health and social protection. However, the case had not been that way before, so from 2003 to 2006 even the dinar was not paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and 2016, I can say that the largest amount was actually paid, a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, REM has one problem, which is that it still doesn't have its own business space, and that's why every year, in the name of renting out the business space, 14.2 million is planned in 2020, which certainly reduces the surplus that could be paid and used in some other way from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I therefore appeal that REM should resolve this urgently, of course, with agreement with the Property Directorate and other institutions in charge of this in order to reduce costs. Currently, 80 out of 104 were employed in REM as systematised by the Decision to confirm the maximum number of employees at a specified time and 80 were allocated 212 million 400 000 and 260 dinars. This money also includes earnings for three newly employed people, and it is necessary to increase this number because rules that are in line with EU law should be implemented. The planned revenue for 2020 of REM is 307 million 927 000, the same cost, and that is 9.08% more than in 2019. It is also important to mention that travel costs are six million 650 thousand, which is also justified since REM is a member of the European Regulatory Body Platform, the Mediterranean Network of Regulatory Bodies, the Central European Regulatory Forum and the Black Sea Network of Regulatory Bodies. It is also of particular importance for regulators and Serbia to participate and work within a European group of regulatory bodies that exists and works within the European Commission. Our members of the REM Council often take active part in all these bodies and since these remote destinations are justified by this amount of six million and 650 thousand dinars for cost. I hope that in 2020 REM will achieve as much surplus as possible and that these funds will be used correctly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71230	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71232	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are discussing four financial plans or one rebalancing and three plans, and there are, I must say, a lot of illogicalities. First of all, all these plans and rebalancing, a concrete rebalancing of the Decision on the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2019, came to the Assembly on 2 December. As we heard, he was adopted immediately after that by the board of directors. However, more than two months have passed since then, and we are discussing the 2019 rebalancing today, although it is now February 2020. What's the significance of our decision and whether it's just a colonization of something that's already been done, is if it's not done, then you'll admit it's pointless, to discuss it, and if it's done as I believe it is, it's consistent with the rebalancing, then it shows that in this country the institutions don't function and that there's absolutely no system. I was amazed by what I heard from the promoters explaining these plans, which, I repeat, the citizens for the sake of adoption, they said it was the means that the relevant entities are achieving by their participation in the market. If we know that it is the Commission's value paper, REM or the regulatory body for electronic media and the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask these economic experts from the SNS to explain how they participate in the market. Sit down. So this is not about any market participation, it's about the monopoly alone. Whether someone can choose on the market whether to use services, for example REM? Can anyone choose whether they will use the Services of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia on the market or maybe go to someone else? You know, where there's a market, there's multiple offers so someone can decide whose services they're going to use, and if there's a monopoly, as there is in these cases, because it's about state agencies that are given certain powers in accordance with the law, then no one who understands themselves in the economy or in common sense can say that they're entities, which are part of their incomes or their total incomes by their participation in the market. It's right here on that one: "When you're being sued, you're being judged by a cadiya." What they cut off and how much compensation they determine and earn, you have no ability at all to influence it. Do you think that he is pleased with those who pay those compensations and that they are happy to do so? Of course not, but they don't have a choice. The second problem, you've approved these agencies and REM's salary hikes. What is the reason to allow an increase in wages, for which members of your coalition and your regime say they are extremely high and are extremely high and several times higher than the average wages in Serbia and completely unwarranted? You know, being used by a state monopoly, making a certain amount of money like REM, that's not why he can then deploy those funds any way he wants and share all the money he wants. I heard in particular Marijan Risticevic, after which I checked on the basis of the financial report, the average salary of REM employees, so this does not apply to REM president and members of the REM Council, but to the average salary of employees, the net salary is 129.000 dinars. Then they dig up on that fact, that's where the coffee cooks and drivers and maintenance employees and everyone else and the average is, no less or less of the net incredible 129.000 dinars, and then another 62% of the contribution is paid. This means that more than 200,000 dinars, on average, of every REM employee, cost Serbian citizens a month. Is that normal, are these the institutions you're building and how is it possible that the presidents of the municipality have less salaries than the cleaning lady in REM? How is it possible that ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have salaries as much as the average income in REM? Is that normal? Is it normal for those in a slightly better position in REM to have higher salaries than the President of the Republic of Serbia, than the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, not to talk about MPs whose salary is 80s and change thousands of dinars, so everyone says these are high wages, but here you see in REM are several times higher. One more thing that intrigued me, you insisted that you had no effect on REM until the moment you were drawn from the European Union and said that several REM members had to change. Then it turns out it's possible to secure resignations and yet you have some kind of influence on REM members. He says one of the speakers is a member of the regime as REM works for Solak and Gilas. You choose the president now, choose the members of the Council, I wonder if they will work for Gilas too? Will all these injustices that you have listed for days, months, years, as Gilas robs Serbia, how Solak robs Serbia, how the TV "N1" is doing illegally, which is a fact. Is something going to change now? If you choose more people in REM, president, I repeat, so, someone who will run and who is most important here, so choose more members of the REM Council, will they work for Gilas and Solak? If nothing changes, and I guess it won't, then they work for Gilas and Solak, and you choose them, so who do you work for, but you work for Gilas and Solak. Are you paying back some of Gilas' debts to Gilas and the debts of the School, because nothing here changes with any years going by? REM competencies are extremely important. I don't have enough time to read now, but we'll have a debate about REM now, so there will be opportunities, but I'd like to point out how the REM budget or the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which determine who will broadcast, who won't broadcast, they give broadcasting permits, they warn the media that are breaking regulations, they have the opportunity to punish the media, they have the opportunity to take away the national frequency, to ban someone from broadcasting for a certain time, they have all that, but those rights and obligations, because their obligation to work for the benefit of Serbian citizens, they don't use it. The REM budget that was projected for 2020 is an amazing and nothing justified 307 million dinars in a year. There's about 50 employees there, right? Three hundred seven million dinars. If we look at the previous year, I was amazed by the fact that, for example, in 2014, 18,200,000,00 was their financial plan, 18 million, and for 2020, the entire 307 million, which means that 15 and a half times bigger. Six years from now, there's a 15-and-a-half budget increase for REM. What's that justified by? What kind of jobs do they do? They're gone. Do they do their job better? No, I don't. Is it a better quality program? No, I don't. Is there less vulgarity and debauchery that people have the opportunity to view on television with a national, regional or local frequency? Well, of course not. The question is, why is that? In 2016, their financial plan was 64,000.000,00. Watch out, 2016. Already in 2018 – 280.000.000.00 million. Imagine how much that's increasing. Five times. The year 2020 compared to 2014 is 17 times higher. Now you tell us why it is and why did you approve? Is the Assembly or the committee responsible a flow boiler, so absolutely every proposal must be respected? You don't like REM, apparently you don't like it. You speak of them all the worst, and their role, and you claim to work for Gilas and Solak, and yet you increase their budget year after year. It says that you deceive Serbian citizens and that you are the ideological clones of Gilas and Solak, that you obviously have the same interests, that you have the same business and that at some other level other than this in the National Assembly you understand very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71233	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: How? I was just praising him. Well, he didn't realize it that way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you mention someone's name, you bring up a part of his presentation that is certainly the basis for a replica, far greater or fatter basis than some other MPs do. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SBB, whose owner was Solak, who resold it to David Petreus, later resold it to "BC Partners" along with some of its stakes, it seems to me from a "KD system" far back in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. Connecting Solak and Gilas to us, with the ruling majority is a much bigger imagination than some in some Hollywood movies that are far more witty than the exposure I've been hearing in the National Assembly for days. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, let's add up how many criticisms on the School, on Gilas, on REM, on SBB, on "N1", on "Sport clubs", the MPs of the majority said, and how many MPs of opposition parties and you will get clear information that the ruling majority is very critical of the situation. We didn't establish REM, we didn't establish the way REM is financed, we didn't schedule any fees, we didn't schedule any fees, we didn't set up fees that the electronic media had to pay REM to make this work. All this has been done far ahead of us and it is our right to criticise what we have found and to ask REM to finally begin to function for this money because its composition is changing, that after the change in the composition of the REM Council it finally begins to work for the benefit of domestic media, i.e. to respect the Law on Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71235	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71236	So, Mr. Risticevic, what you're saying is that it's a founding state is not true. In 2017, the Electronic Media Act was adopted and since then, the Financial Plan is based on, in the context of the costs of regulation, therefore, on the basis of the full amount to be paid to REM. Another thing, when did you find that condition? Fifteen days ago? A month ago? Three months ago? You've been in power for eight years and you've found a little more of these laws, a little more than Gilas and Solak, you've found a set of their coalition partners, so you still have them. You've found a lot of their officials, so hold them still. You also found Gilas, so you set him up... You know, you say, the man stole 619 million and instead of prison, you set him up as president of the basketball union. Well, then what's it about? You're the ones who have power in their hands. Whatever law you found, you could have changed it 20 times in those eight years. Well, how do you change... Here, you keep reforming school year after year. The same laws are always being discussed here. I have not challenged anything, to make it even more interesting, the data you have brought and that you have told the citizens of Serbia and I share your concerns and astonishment. It's just amazing, it's a shame, it's a robbery, but why don't you do anything to stop that robbery, but you keep letting Gilas, Solak, N1 and others you're talking about rob Serbia? Why do you let the SBB rob Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71238	Here, I'm done. Allow me, as well as Mr. Rističević. You could have changed everything. Let's change the next week and the laws, the sublegal act, whatever it takes to prevent a robbery. You won't. You're saying one thing, but you're doing another, and the citizens of Serbia need to know that. You're the one who makes it possible to rob Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71239	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The right to replica now has Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71240	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, nor the RRA existed before this authority. There was nothing. There was no SBB, there were no fixed compensations, the ruling majority of the vote by the president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia. It's almost unbelievable. Since when do we choose the presidents of sports organizations? I probably wasn't at that session. It is that, unlike some colleagues who come here only after 12 hours, who get up a little later, whose buses are late from Belgrade or Vranj, so they come a little later, maybe I, unlike them who come in time, missed that part of the session, that the ruling majority has appointed the president of the basketball union of Serbia and that it has been chosen by our will by Dragan Gilas. I wasn't at that session. I've never been with Gilas. So when I cooperated with DS, he wasn't a member of the DS. He became a member in 2004 because they wouldn't let him be a member, but, my God, someone was working with them. As far as REM is concerned, as regards SBB, as regards "N1" television, as regards "New S", as regards "Sport Clubs", I continue to ask the chairman whether he thinks that more criticism has been referred to their account by the ruling majority or individual opposition parties? I may be wrong. Maybe those who come to meetings late don't follow my exposure, but I think I've referred more criticism to the account of SBB, School, Gilas, REM, SSB, etc. but all the opposition MPs together.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71241	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71242	I'm going to quote one more time, Freud, who said that the first sign of human stupidity is a complete absence of shame. Maybe someone will recognize themselves, and maybe they won't, but, you see, when you touch an ax's nest, when you chat there a little bit, then those who don't have any arguments move to talk nonsense, move with which insults, but the facts are different. You, SNS gentlemen, won an absolute majority of Serbian citizens' votes, had an absolute majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You could have, by the coalition partners, without any coalition partner, changed whatever law you wanted. You could've kept your pensions off the pensioners. You could not have spent a billion and a half dinar on the Palilula market. You could have stopped a lot of nonsense, but you didn't. You do things differently. You're talking one thing and the other you're working the other. You're criticizing Gilas. You're saying you don't know who he chose as president of the basketball union, but tell me, please, who chose Coquez as president of the Football Federation? Is it Gilas or Sollac? When Alexander Sapic was running for president of the Waterpol Alliance and won the support of all, most of the Waterpol alliance, then you, several days before the election, ran for our famous, married water poloman, that airship Babic, and he, being extremely expert on water polo, won the election, because you from the SNS, as you say, had no influence on it and was so good and was so valuable and understood so well, that he formally spent a month, two at that function. The question is if he ever left there, so he resigned. It's you. You control every sphere of society, and you pretend to be ignorant. If you are incompetent, if you are unable to change the law in eight years, to protect Serbian citizens from the robbery committed by Gilas and Solak, then resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71243	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71244	Ladies and gentlemen, that psychoanalysis of Freud would be strange, based on sexual experiences, if it were carried out on a matter of individual MPs. There'd be strange conclusions. I don't know why anyone's calling Freud, but I'll tell them about Babic. It is true that the Serbian Progressive Party has asked my former counterpart Babic to withdraw from a sports organisation called the Water polo Union of Serbia. So, the truth is, she asked that because of the possible interpretation that he was elected there for political influence, he would withdraw from it. This proves that my claim that the ruling majority does not elect the presidents of sports federations and organisations, but that it is the clubs themselves and the sports organisations themselves. Whether a member of the SNS as a sports official is elected or not, it is decided by sports organisations, but when a sound political name appears, as was Mr Babic, in which case I think that the Serbian Progressive Party, my coalition partner, has justifiably asked Mr Babic to get away with it. Why couldn't the Serbian Progressive Party ask Mr. Gilas to withdraw from a sports organisation called the basketball union of Serbia? For free reason. In order to do so, it would have to have a strong connection and have co-operation with other Gilas and Solak, and this type of co-operation obviously had some other rather than the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71245	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure and we are closing this circle of replicas, as we went to Zoran Babic. It really doesn't make sense. Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71246	I'm not going to advertise, but I'm pointing to Article 107's injury. The Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly. Chairman, I am speaking to you, not to the previous speaker who mentioned the definition of Sigmund Freud. I'd like my colleague to explain what he meant by that definition, to see if I got it right...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71247	No, there won't be a chance, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71248	... So we can discuss it too.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71249	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Branimir Rancic: No. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71250	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we discuss giving consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, several questions are raised. Has REM been informed that N1 television announces for the next week some two-part documentary called "Governmental" which, according to their announcement and participants, i.e. conversants, is a continuation of the dirty and brutal campaign against Alexander Vukic? A journalist in an attempt, who is one of the authors of this propaganda junk, Slavisa Lekic gathered, probably by order of Solak and Gilas, almost all of the Vucic haters, who are as always ready to join the service and all of the worst excuses for Aleksandr Vukic, and are only known for their 24 hours a day to spit on Aleksandr Vukic, the Serbian and SNS government. A very interesting team is there: Biljana Stepanović, Branka Prpa, Ljubodrag Stojadinović, Misa Brkic, then that Petričić, the cartoonist in the attempt, then she Vesna Mališić, which is what defends Milo Djukanovic even from Miras Dedeic more strongly these days. The other day, in her hysteria, she went one step further, so she tried to match the Serbian trio with the chess room, watch how long the disease was going. Then we have Zoran Gavrilovic, that's the director of that BRODI, a fake public opinion investigator who constantly shares the Serbian people and claims that only illiterate, uneducated, stupid and ugly vote for SNS and Alexander Vukic. Lucky for him, he's all pretty and smart. Only that Vukic has more and more support. We in the SNS have more highly educated members than all of them together in Serbia. And there's this Zarko Trebjesanin from the Democratic Party, look out, he's a member of the Civil Democratic Club DS, so, in a way, an DS official and a bunch of other frustrated types. So, the whole society only lacks Natasa Kandic and Theophil Pancic, and then the whole team would be together and Judge Majic, of course. Well, it's going to be heard in that documentary and that Vukic is a war-scraper and that he's a dictator and that he's a changed radical and a hooligan, a fraud, a man with no morals, and who knows what else. Why am I saying all this? Because this is a classic example of the continuation of a brutal and dirty TV campaign that otherwise 24 hours a day, seven days a week, exclusively, only leads the campaign against Alexander Vukic, SNS and the Serbian Government. And they've never had hair on their heads for that. And what's worst, parallel to that campaign, is constantly coming up with accusations of censorship, of media darkness, of suffocating media freedoms. Now I ask, where's the censorship? Where exactly is censorship in this case? Where's the media dark? Where is the asphyxiation of media freedom when anyone can, but whatever they want to say about Alexander Vukic or the Government of Serbia? How come one of them thinks faster and better of the N1 and then they spit right there on the Wolf and everything's allowed in that case. What they're saying about Alexander Wolfich, it's hard for a decent man to think of. I therefore urge REM to react, and in order to protect public interest in the field of electronic media and to protect users of electronic media services in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, and in a manner appropriate to democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71251	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71252	Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although the topic of electing new members of the REM Council tomorrow is on the agenda, given that in this united debate, the first point of agreement on their financial report is first I will talk about it. That's what I'm The regulatory body established as an RRA first with the intention to control the objectivity of the media in Serbia and to monitor democratic procedures, above all in the election campaign, has indeed become one farce and way of proposing and selecting candidates that we have had the opportunity to see recently, proposed by the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when we, Serbian Radicals, proposed Mr Dragomir Antonic, one of the most famous and most influential Serbian ethnologists, with a biography that really gives the opportunity for one such man to fulfill all that the regulatory body needs by law to give. Your choice of candidates and those you propose to us tomorrow, or the AP of the Vojvodina Assembly, shows that the SNS absolutely in all segments of the government has exerted influence and that in agreement with your secret, and what has actually become a public secret to coalition partners, you make a variety of combinations. Then you want to give these people a huge amount of money, which they will receive monthly from there the porters who are working, who have three minimals in Serbia, through those who are members of the Council, who have three times the salary of the President of the Republic. The very fact that an AP Vojvodina proposal has come from one of the candidates, Slavisa Grujic, who is an LSV candidate, speaks enough to support that we, Serbian radicals, claim that in Novi Sad, SNS is the most important coalition partner Nenad Canak. Although you would now try to justify it by some kind of municipal coalition, as you glegonically call it, citizens of all Serbia, and thus also Novi Sad, although the Novosadians know it, should bear in mind that you are the most important company, the new Sad company, the JP "Vodovod and sewerage", have just given Nenadu Canka, who formed his duchy front, along with Odzic, who is the pandemic Sulji Ugljanin, because that Odzic wants to declare the Vojvodina Republic, as you do not mind Ugljanin in several cities in Serbia, Sjenica, Tutina, Novi Pazar and in the Prepolje and other cities where he is in the coalition. Then the highest degree of hypocrisy is shown, and we need, here tomorrow and today to discuss such people and such pre-election combinations, as the arrival of Gordana Komic, imagine, with an epochal proposal, instead of 33 percent of the less represented half, 40% and still the martyrs did not know how to write it, so you were correcting it. And that's something that turned out to be hilly. Besides, it shows the nature of everything you do in the eyes of the upcoming April elections. Miodrag Koprivica, who is otherwise the director of TV Vojvodina, has done this party TV with Igor Mirovic, and you don't mind it, and here you know that, as our people would say, you are scrambling at what RTS is doing. RTS which is everything, but is not the public service of all Serbian citizens, but when it is useful to you, you will be silent, saying that they are correct again if you appear there, and what does not have the largest opposition party on TV Vojvodina, means or building a new building is given by the state. I mean the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, the City of Novi Sad, 44 million dinars. You don't care. You have your focus and that's all you're talking about, and what's being financed by the state and what needs to be available to all citizens who voted for a particular, in this case, SRS as the largest opposition party, it can and does not have to. Simply, you show double arches and show that you are strictly and only blindly listening and respecting what these failed European parliamentarians are telling you, your new mentors, in which way and how you are setting up election processes, because the laws adopted a month and a half ago, also according to their recommendations, where it is said that this body that needs to be independent, this REM, must react in case of abuse of certain political parties did not respond, and you are giving consent, imagine, to their financial business, not in the event of any elections so far that they have now submitted a report and say - that, too. We have a situation that political parties, imagine now how you find holes in the law, but of course, since you have all the leverage in your hands, cannot use this period for political videos, promotions, etc. I a few days ago, 23.00 hours in the evening, we now have, depending on who the cable operator is, the possibility of following from Priboj via Panchev, over TV Novi Pazar, to other channels, as you look at which, in a cycle even to go after Serbia, at exactly 23.00 hours of talking to Alexander Vukic on all TVs at the same time. It is not an abuse, because it serves as President of the Republic. But how is it exactly when the programming scheme of these televisions isn't planned for that exact address at all? You probably have someone there who's called and controlled it, if it didn't start at exactly 2300 hours on those TVs. And then with all the other possibilities given to you by power, inexhaustible, both public enterprises and carriers of other functions, you will now advocate to join you equally in the election race. I don't have much time to talk about energy efficiency anymore, about the work of this agency. However, they did not, respected counterpart Tomic, mention all those IMF tasks that you, as the Serbian Parliament's competent committee, are highly respected, as well as the minister, as well as the entire government, against which the SRS is. The reverse trail should be, and we've been potent since these yellows were in power. How to prevent losses in Serbia's Elektroprivred? Well, replace incompetent leadership and that management. The power industry of Serbia, after the first phase of restructuring and the separation of individual continents, has come to this point, instead of doing better and that this management of the environments, they call it differently, speeding up that there are no more such losses in the transmission of electricity, first of all, you are now listening to what the IMF says, and the electricity price has already increased by 3.5%, you say -- that's nothing. Well, please, then let it be, the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars, minimum wage and minimum pension is 37,000 dinars. Who, gentlemen of the elderly, has been responsible since you were in power from the Elektroprivreda of Serbia for so many losses? Do you know where this is the biggest problem, where there is no infrastructure that can track, no matter what we think of that local government? In Zlatibor, currently 54 buildings, so built buildings, these are the people who at least had to give a million to two million dinars, they can't make the connection to electricity, even though they've paid the whole thing to the Elektroprivreds. Minister Antic has to intervene often. So what is he going to find a man in wonder? He's got to make a list of priorities. How do I make it? All these people paid for municipal equipment and everything they need, they don't get electricity. They're paying the citizens. Here's what my colleague Jovanovic knows, because Serbia's Elektroprivreda is not investing enough in infrastructure. He's not investing, because it's not the ministry's business, it's the business of a public company that's in charge, which takes huge money from citizens, who in every account, and here in your account, look at tonight, colleague Marinkovic, when you go home, see what you have in your electricity bill. It's got anyone who doesn't spend a single kilowatt, and I'm there in Katrza in the village or where you have houses and cottages, hired power on the account and remonting the power plant, and they're such losers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71253	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. I'd answer you, but I can't right now. Now the word has Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71254	Mr. Chairman, I'm always a supporter of a good democratic debate and I'm glad you've just let us face different opinions and attitudes, exchange, and let the citizens judge at the end who's right, who's wrong. What I would return to is that the authorised proponent today spoke of the price of electricity as one indicator of the cheapest work in this part of Europe, and unlike Western Europe, how many times cheaper and thus connected the standard of Serbia's citizens and the struggle to be higher and that, as it is said then, the average salary of 320 euros, I quote, is better to have 500 than 320 euros, as it is easier to pay for communals, electricity is easier to pay, and citizens' living standards is better. Here, I would just mention that if the salary is 2,000 euros, and remain these energy prices and utility services, then it's probably easier to pay, because simply, it's mathematical and economic logic that if wages grow, citizens' living standards grow, and not grow property taxes, not raise energy prices, oil derivatives, different excises, and even those parts in society that are needed for existential needs, such as dairy products, etc., there's plenty of it you want. Of course, with a salary of 2,000 euros, people in our society would probably be much more satisfied and smiling and then they would also realize that with a salary of 2,000 euros is better than having 500 euros. It is one indicator that will help us make Serbian citizens live better. I believe that, following speeches like this by the authorised promoter and representatives of the government, MPs, who today represented the interests of these financial plans, both in terms of energy and other proposals, that they would simply blossom in Serbia before spring probably by tomorrow. What was the second topic was the topic, it was easy to say that everything was good in this country, so one half truth was said, and that is that there are no more losers among public enterprises in Serbia, so I would remind the citizens of Serbia that it is not so. That it's better at this point, it is, than it was before, but in 2018, for example. The total profit was five billion dinars, 80% lower than in 2017 and these are official indicators. So, compared to 2017 2018, there was a worse situation when it comes to profitable public enterprises. The number of profitable public enterprises in 2018, i.e. in 2017, was reduced by 24. There were 393, while the losers were 135 or 10 more than in 2017. It's official data. Well, for example, when we consider why and why, it should be reminded that public enterprises, local public enterprises finance 0.6% of GDP, which then these indicators don't exactly say that it's a great picture in these public enterprises. There is a colleague here in parliament, Mr. Milletic, I think he comes from Srlig, and he often points out his municipality as successful, as one where people lead the municipality successfully. I'm interested, I haven't been able to find the data, so since they have, I think, two public enterprises in that community, what's the situation there? It simply doesn't match what the representatives of the regime said, that all at once, overnight, became profitable. From this data, we can see that someone or simply someone wanted to deceive the citizens of Serbia because of ignorance. Of course, we would like all public enterprises to be benevolent, if they were profitable, then it would be exactly the economic logic of the SNS – then, says more jobs are going, so from 320 euros the salary jumps to 500 euros, from 500 euros to 2,000 euros, so nice, we will have a problem that everyone will be employed, we will have to import labour and around Serbia will become a country where there will be lines at the border crossings, lines of people who will come to live and work in our Serbia. What is also interesting is the second proposal that is related to the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. What immediately vaporizes the eyes and this power has continued as the previous one, somehow it's nice to use the word independently, everyone is independent, and this regulatory body in its legal status says it is independent and independent. What is interesting is the fact that the regulator's jurisdiction states that, in addition to other things, the first one, says, encourages the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language. Now I ask fellow Members of the People's Parliament, did they respond and where is this, how much is represented in our electronic media, this, I agree, mandatory item that should be respected? Again, it encourages the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, as it is increasingly less such a programme and, secondly, encourages the development of professionalism and the improvement of editorial independence. Excuse me, colleague Marinkovic, how many minutes do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71255	Time's up, but finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71256	Let me finish my thought, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. In all, the latest indicators of public opinion say only 15% of Serbian citizens believe such institutions are independent. If we really get to this level of democracy to allow institutions to be independent, then democracy in this House will be much better and the debate will be much more interesting for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71257	Thank you. The right to replica has Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71258	Thank you. I would just like to answer to my colleague Damjanovic that all of us living in those small areas in southeastern Serbia are making every effort to do so domestically within the framework of our budget there. The municipality where I come from is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, where the average net earnings are among the smallest. When we see what the profits are for people employed in REM, on average 120,000 dinars and more, it's really amazing. It would be good, of course, if there, in Srlig, in the White Palanca, in Gage's Han, in Meroshina, in these municipalities, there were better conditions, normally, to provide some more serious companies that would come to open jobs, to be paid more than 50,000. I think that's when our people would be pleased. Otherwise, the essence of everything, as far as these salaries are concerned in REM, there's nothing to say about that, my colleagues said before me. That's inappropriate. When we see how you live in Svrlig, how you live in villages around Svrlig, how you live in parts of southeastern Serbia where there's really a situation where we have to put a much bigger accent on electricity, on power, on a low voltage network, on a change in the low voltage network, where we have to invest a lot more in order to get people who regularly pay for regular electricity, but the voltage there is much lower than it needs to be. I think it takes, normally, to invest a lot more in our undeveloped municipalities, that people behave normally in these municipalities. Once again, I say, an example of good practice is that of the Municipality of Srlig. It's a municipality that doesn't have some dubiosis, where there's no debt, to the municipality of water for women, in the way it's done domestically. Once again, I think we need to invest more there.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71259	Thank you. The People's MP, Miljan Damjanovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71260	Mr. Miletic, I have to admit and I would like to sign every word you have said here and I am glad to hear from you that, not only you in Srlig, but also in other municipalities and in most municipalities of Serbia, the average net earnings and salaries of employees, and even the leading people, the leaders of these municipalities, are smaller than in many of these so-called so-called municipalities. Independent agencies, government agencies. The question arises – who then established this parasitic system that whoever does not contribute to the development of municipalities, businesses, after all, bringing, as you said, companies and companies are needed, who is the one who changes those laws, who is the one who changes that climate? We SRS MPs are not doing this right now, because we're in opposition and she's asking you a question, if you're aware of everything you've said. I fully agree with you that it is very difficult to live and not only does the Srljiga need new investments, which our people, from abroad, need in the other 170 and more municipalities in Serbia to better live. The question arises – when will you start making suggestions? We will support you in our heart and that promise you made, Mr. Mircic, when it was 2014, 2016, that you will end over 300 government agencies, if I am not mistaken. We will warmly support the SNS proposal that the promise that you have not fulfilled, that government agencies that are not needed, especially if we put on paper and see that what Mr. Milletić is saying, that one director there has a higher salary than anyone in the entire Srljig municipality, and that in Srlig, we should think about how we will live and how to keep the people on their land, how to feed the family and how to process the country and everything else we need.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71261	Thank you. The People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71262	I'd just like to say a few things to my colleague Damjanovic, these agencies we're talking about now, it's done, they were formed after 2000, and then the great experts, the liberators then, not to say that they've freed all of us from poverty, they've driven us into poverty. At the time decisions were made, the laws that agencies must be present. We have to respect all these things now. On the other hand, I mean, those people who work there should do their job for that money. We all have to work here in the interest of all environments, whether it's south-east Serbia, central Serbia, north of Serbia. We're all on the same assignment. I try and advocate that southeastern Serbia has the opportunity to get more funds, to hear about problems in southeastern Serbia, to talk here in the Assembly about these problems. As I said in the previous days, it is now said specifically about the Old Mountain, about the problems of the Old Mountain. The bottom line is that we are moving forward, that a lot of things that have not now been done are some who have come and done, as we say, the rhum in Serbia. Once again, fellow MPs, I think that the president of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, who leads our Serbia the right way, is the man who should continue it, because we need to deal with some things together and that when we get up in the morning and look in the mirror, we say if we helped someone yesterday. The easiest thing to criticise is the easiest thing to talk about is some things, but the hardest thing to do is end things. I think we will have an obligation now and after this election in 2020 to invest more in small areas, to invest more in southeast Serbia, to solve the problems of low voltage networks and all that, to invest in health, social and education. It's done, but it has to be more. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71263	My colleague Jovanovic, but for one presentation of two replicas. Here you go, but my colleague Miljan came forward since he was speaking to his colleague Miletic... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: He's right too, and I'm right. ) Please, if you consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71264	Believe that he will not be angry with counterpart Milletic, even on the contrary, but in most of his presentation, I have recognized the interpretation of my discussion on these points of the agenda. It is amazing now, since Mr. Milija Miletic and his party are a small coalition partner of the SNS, as you did not ask yourself, and this is a question for you too, Mr. Milicevic and Mr. Marinkovic, all of you are in a single coalition, that in one of these municipalities, I also know Mrs. Jelena, the president of Svrljig Municipality and fellow Milija, who has been a national MP for so many years, that unlike this municipality where every dinar is taken care of, you have a situation, I have just said everything in this coalition with Canka in Novi Sad, communal, under indications, coalitions, and I live in a city where there is a general disaster, a flood of Kragujevac, a financial collapse, in front of bankruptcy. Now, in a city where 200,000 people live, where a really large number of factories once functioned impeccably, which the five-octobaric powder left all those workers out of work, no investment. Fortym euros were paid by the government of the Republic of Serbia to Radomir Nikolic, the mayor of Kragujevac, alive. The question is, where's the money? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every night, no matter when the session is over here, I return to my hometown, that there is almost normal street lighting in certain parts of the city, that his mother, Dragica Nikolic, has washed her millions and millions of euros through the foundation. You keep your mouth shut, and on the other hand, there's a man crying out here and he says, "Give me a small town, a municipality that, for his word's sake, has experienced such glory." Otherwise, which has its own product, some of you are sometimes funny, but it is not, which is on the list of the immaterial cultural treasure of Serbia and perhaps one day, Mr. Milija, is also on the UNESCO list. You will meet there, and Kragujevac, who, here in the meeting of Meeting, is the city that became the first capital in modern Serbia where the Sretenjski Constitution was brought in, where the most cultural institutions are now being founded, thanks to your policy and your... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71265	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Wait now, if we're going to parity, there's a colleague now, Miletic, so Miljan, if he mentions a colleague of Damjanovic in his presentation. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71266	Thank you. I would answer, I will no longer mention anyone, specifically about what we're talking about the end of where I come from and the areas of southeastern Serbia, that's the face of the situation, that's what I'm talking about, and that's what it takes. As for Kragujevac, I really remember the time of 2012 and before that when they were others. About Tomislav Nikolic, as president of Serbia, I did not vote for him in 2012. I'll admit that. But it turns out that Tomislav Nikolic, as president of Serbia, has changed something for the better, that after that, Alexander Vukic, a man who really has provided us in Serbia with a safer and better future, that the man who is with us is leading Serbia into a much better future, where we are now much stronger, more serious, that we no longer have problems with the budget, that we have no problems with our neighbours and that our Serbia is really moving forward. Aleksandar Vukic is a man who has given us all the opportunity to do what we have received the support of the people, but firstly, if it hadn't been for Tomislav Nikolic and winning the elections for the president of Serbia, I'm sure it would have been very different if the other ones who put Serbia on the pillar of shame, where many negative things were happening. Once again, I think Kragujevac is also now a city where there will be more investment, where there have been before investments and where there will certainly be more investment, but I am more willing to go to Srljig, to have investments in Nis because it is a little more difficult there than there is in you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71267	Seems like there's a little bit more of a colleague everywhere. Col. Jovanovic, you now want a replica of the presentation of counterpart Miletic? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. I ask you to close the lines of the replicas in this way and return to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71268	A colleague Damjanovic also has a replica, but since Mr Milija Miletic was obviously not so long ago in Kragujevac, I invite him to come. Believe me, if he makes a parallel between what is the situation in a small municipality like Svrljig and Kragujevac, which is a big city, you'll see that it's much better there. After all, I'm not running away from it, there are many cities where the SRS also has a coalition partnership with your SNS, there are places where we don't have, and where there's a much better situation than in the heart of the Forest. But what you decided was right, but fellow Miletic, not one investment in the town of Kragujevac, if you only think of one, which is the company Simens, the former "Milanović Engineering", is not responsible for Tomislav Nikolic, and let alone this incompetent son, Radomir. It is a private arrangement and it is well explained to you by the president of your party who attended the opening of the factory, as well as by a Chinese company that recently started working, but Kragujevac is a city where there should be at least ten other factories, a city that does not have a normal bus station. What else can we talk about without talking about ruined schools, not investing in kindergartens, and everything that is primarily the accompanying infrastructure, the entire perimeter of the town of Kragujevac is crying out for asphalt and sewers and a water network in the 21st century. That's what's devastating. If you all think, and now there's going to be an election campaign, so come and see for yourself what we've been saying for years, that some of this isn't true. On the spot you will be grasping your head and seeing that it is abnormal that any other city in Serbia at least which progress is being recorded, and that we are a city that is in front of bankruptcy, over-indebted city and government has not changed, local government in 2012, but only later on by buying the councilors that Radomir Nikolic held in quarantine there somewhere in the hotel near Jagodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71269	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Everyone said their position, in the end we realized that Col. Milija Miletic was right, that he did the right thing. It is now time to proceed in order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic of the agenda is the agreement of the National Assembly on the financial plans of regulatory bodies, and here it is often carried out through the discussion that these regulatory bodies are maltene above the law, above the National Assembly, that they have absolute independence and independence in their work and that it should be done exclusively by the ministry. Now, if that's true, I only have to ask one question, and why, if they are independent, are we independent of them giving consent to their financial plans? If the National Assembly gives consent to financial plans, it means that either the National Assembly, or the congregation’s working body, is overseeing the work of the regulatory body. Why does the National Assembly have to do this? One of the reasons, perhaps most importantly, is that the state is also in a certain way, executive bodies, public enterprises are market participants that regulate the functioning of the body. Now, let's say, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2020 Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body of Electronic Media, if someone attacks it and if someone thinks it should be arranged by the Ministry of Culture and Information, then we come up with another problem, the founder and owner of the Public Service of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the RTS, is the Republic of Serbia. Now the question is how do you expect those who participate in that market to compete, say, with Serbian Radio-Television, if it participates in the market and achieves a position or, if you want, as it really was by 2012, that the entire public service worked to enrich one man, when we did not discuss financial reports and plans, when they were not even to be told here in the National Assembly, when Dragan Gilas swallowed up wealth. That's when the role of regulatory bodies came up. Or, for example, I listened to various conspiracy theories. For example, we agree on the financial plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Now everybody says - it's what the Ministry should do, it's what the Government should do, it can't be done by the Regulatory Body. Then I ask a simple question – how do you think that if the state body or government, the oil industry of Serbia, or most of it, buys a Russian company, because a public company is also a participant in the energy market? We also have "Serbiagas", we have Serbia's Elektroprivreda, and therefore the need for the work of these independent regulatory bodies is indicated. Now, we had a situation where a former regime colleague began to say that the government of Alexander Vukic, while he was still prime minister, listened exclusively to the IMF directives and implemented the IMF directives. At no time has the Republic of Serbia lost its economic sovereignty, these are arbitrary interpretations. Now I'm going to explain why we needed the IMF. Here comes a colleague from the former regime, the current opposition, and says our imports are growing. Now that you're listening to this fact, it's very problematic, but it won't say that exports are growing and it won't say another very important thing, which is that the coverage of exports is both in percentage and nominally larger than it was in 2010, 2011, 2012 and every year it decreases. Now, the question is who will anyone believe, whether a domestic or foreign investor will, however, trust us more to the MPs who support the government or more to trust the MPs who are the former regime and some former regime. That is why the assessment is given by a relevant international financial body, such as the IMF. He says, yes, it is true, as the government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority of parliament claim, that more coverage of imports with exports than it was in the previous period has a tendency to even greater coverage, with some projection that in the future it will go beyond what we import. But when you say that to an ordinary citizen, he doesn't usually understand it. Let's move on, the same story was about the IMF and a very interesting topic, which is that Serbia was in debt until 2012. Those loans were very expensive, going up to 7-8% on an annual basis. You can imagine that the state owes 7-8% of the interest on the loan it raises. Today, an ordinary citizen has twice as much interest as the state had back then. What do you need? Once again, an internationally recognised body needs to say -- Serbia has stable finances, a stable economy with a tendency to even greater stability, and thus we are better off with all investors. One way to go better is that we can raise the loans, which were very expensive when it comes to interest, at much less interest to raise and return those expensive loans. Because you know what, at some 19-20 billion that was discovered in 2012, the public debt was found, the interest of 7% is a billion and 400. So just to cut 1%, that's 140 million less. Let's not talk about other things. So Serbia has not lost since 2012 a single element of its statehood and independence and even economics. But you know, that's what people like to talk about. I guess they think they can trick someone else about it. We also have one situation now, and it's about these investors, so they say, turn your co-operation towards the east, turn to Russia, turn to China. One question I have to ask – here we are, turning around, only that we do not have co-operation with both Europe and the European Union countries, would Hestil come to Smederevo? No, you wouldn't. Does anyone really think that this steel they're making is carrying back to China? Well, someone's obviously a fool. Or "Linglong," will the tires he made in Zrenjanin be carried back to China? Well, they won't, they'll sell it on the territory of the European Union. Here, we cooperate, what we said in the campaign, what Tomislav Nikolic said in 2008, we want to work with both the East and the West, what he materialized and strengthened Alexander Vukic today, we work with both the East and the West. And it's not impossible. It's impossible for the unfaithful Tom. It's impossible for people who simply cannot accept the facts. They cannot accept that Serbia is becoming a better place to live. Why? They say they'd be better. Well, here, let them convince the citizens, not us. We know what we're worth. We also know how much the former regime is worth, we know what it's worth to the former regime, and so on. Here, it's mentioned, here, it says, the electricity price is up 3.5%. Well, but what is inflation in Serbia, and when was the last time it collected electricity in 2016? So how much was inflation in 2016 so far? About 7-8%. Should we destroy Serbia's electricity industry to score political points? I don't think so. And there are some of our citizens, and there are some of our people, and there they feed off that pay of some of our children. So the easiest thing to do is make one story about how nothing's wrong. We heard stories about huge losses, it turned out that it was even below the European average, but when it says some 15% are losses in electricity, I would very much like to see them, prove and show these losses, as if the electricity industry was not under the control of the government of the Republic of Serbia and as if it were not doing an audit of its business under the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Mandatory External Audit submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the easiest thing to do is to make this story that we are constantly losing some independence, some part of our sovereignty for the sake of it, is our strategic goal to go to the EU. Just a reminder, I don't mind what happened. In 2009 or 2010, one government decided to issue bonds or power stamps for outstanding pensions. At that moment it was really an emergency, the best solution there was, but now we have to ask one other question, as someone who cares about the state and about all citizens. Did anyone damage the electricity industry for those bonuses? It's not. It was kind of a primary show. Maybe the market conditions were such that it had to happen and it happened, but now nobody can tell me that it's better than the pensions that citizens receive in nominal real money that they can spend on their own free will, the way they want it and what they're receiving more than before, and of course, it's not enough how much they expect it and how much we think they should receive it, but it's much better than the bonuses. It's better for electricity, it's better for the state, it's better for every citizen. We can also talk about REM and what counterpart Marijan Risticevic was saying in the afternoon session, which is that we have cable operators, phantom television, such as N1, which are used to try to tear down the regime, attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, for only two reasons to get as much money as possible now, on the one hand, to abuse the resources that the Republic has in the field of public information and on the other hand to re-saving tycoons, such as Djilas, such as Šolak, such as Miskovic, come to power and that money that Serbian citizens have entrusted us with, we have saved with them, again rob. So I would like to finally have here, when the reports and the REM representatives are discussed, in that full capacity, to see what they've done based on the financial plan that the National Assembly has approved for them. Did they accomplish the function they were founded for? Their data are public authority and are protected from both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and any Ministry of the Republic of Serbia and are responsible for their work solely to the National Assembly, as it also gives them their independence in the work. We will support these reports, but we also expect to discuss, in some future period, the work of REM, their members, what has been missed, what should have been done and I am very interested in who put pressure on REM not to do his job properly. I bet it's Gilas, Solak and the crew. They only aim to come to power in any way. They thought, they were hoping that in 2014 they could come to power in the elections, they were beaten to death. They were hoping that in 2016, we beat them to the punch. In 2017, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic beat them with an overhalf majority in the presidential election. So now they want to come to power across the street, by destroying again, by burning again, by robbing again, by creating lawlessness in the Republic of Serbia, by making them richer again. They're about 650 million dollars away from Gilas, how much is it really official data, how much did he really steal, I think the FBA would have to deal with it, not just our BIA and the Ministry of the Interior. We are about for politics to return to the National Assembly and for citizens to decide who they will trust in the elections, and for those who want to cross the street to come to power, to forget it, not because the SNS will defend the government, as they have defended, as they did in 2000, but because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will determine who will lead the Republic of Serbia and that will must be respected, and so will Mr Gilas, Šolak, Miskovic and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71271	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71272	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, we've heard a lot today, at least we've talked about the financial plans of the regulatory bodies, the plans that we've adopted on the Finance Committee, and which I hope we will adopt in this session today. There's been a lot more talk about REM, and speaking of REM and what wasn't the subject, I'm going to remind my dear colleagues that there's a lot of involvement in everything that's been going on with our operators, they're going to have RATEL. We keep forgetting about RATEL, RATEL has made some decisions in his time, who is a monopoliest on the market and who isn't. Well, Telekom didn't have certain powers that the SBB had to sell service packages, offer services for one dinar for six months and so on, because we were cobayage monopolies. That's where I'd end up. That's not the point. The theme should be what Reuters said yesterday, what the Financial Times says today, these are the results. The results we should not be proud of, and we MPs who were members of the Assembly's board in the previous four years for finance and all of you MPs who passed certain laws, which you followed the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia on the way to the healing of our economy, on the return of the Republic of Serbia to the world economic frameworks. Isn't it a pleasure to read the title in today's Financial where it says – Serbia is going lightningly forward. All that says, that's not what we're saying here from this summoning of ruling parties, that's what some other people who have always been critical of us say, where you can read that direct foreign investment in 2018 was record high, 3.5 billion euros, that's for the 10-year average highest. It is my pleasure to say that in 2019 it was much more, it was 3.8 billion euros. What is most important and what we have heard more than once today, all these foreign direct investments were not only from the EU where 70% of direct investments or from the United States where 20% of investments are, but also from China and colleagues Arsic said very well, it seems to me that last year 625 million dollars were those investments. I'll end up here after the time is up and other colleagues would say something before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71273	Thank you. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71274	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens, I believe that the financial plan REM for 2020 is rational and well-designed. It is important that our citizens know that the financial resources for electronic media are not allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia but that REM has sent us a good financial report on the spending of funds and revenues on the basis of fees and taxis and I support that plan. The importance of electronic media allows users to gain or share their opinions. We are aware of the fact that the media generally influences the social behaviours of forming and transferring certain values, the formation of human attitudes. It's important that we have the opportunity to choose what we're looking at. When it comes to electronic media, I would put the accent on freedom of expression, not violence and tolerance. Electronic media can provide a lot of useful content, due to the ability of political evaluation and analysis of information. Whether it's printed, electronic or digital media, it's the same thing. We need to understand how the media works, so we can analyze and critically evaluate their messages. But what happens when electronic media is abused for spreading false information and making the wrong picture in society. The so-called opposition accuses us, SNS representatives, of manipulating the media and of our president appearing too much in the media. And my question to them is, isn't our president, the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Isn't it normal everywhere in the world, and also in our country, that it often appears in the media, because it does a responsible job and solves important national problems. Well, of course we'll inform our citizens when a new bridge opens, when over 200 factories open, when highways are built, when many, high, world statesmen and many other things I've already mentioned in previous speeches come to visit us. I would remind our citizens that the level of freedom of the media in Serbia was much worse while Dragan Gilas was in power. At that time, in fact, in 2009, a Dragon Public Information Act was adopted, which was later declared unconstitutional. You're welcome to check it out, esteemed citizens. At the time, there was also a mass layoff of journalists for political reasons, and my conclusion was that the attack on the media at the time was only a prelude to the disastrous reform of the judiciary. There were also some influential daily newspapers owned by Miroslav Miskovic and Dragan Gilas, and today we are witnessing that certain media are owned by Mr Gilas. We know that, our citizens know that, but you do, Mr. Gilas, publicly, of course you don't want to admit it. Dear citizens, we have such a case today, especially with TV "N1", whose headquarters is registered in Luxembourg. Therefore, they correspond to the Luxembourg Regulatory Body, since that television is not registered in either the APR or as a media service provider. It is clear to all of us that it is domestic, not foreign re-transmitted programmes, and I really believe that their business violates our law and abuses and spreads various false information. I believe that the level of freedom of the media in Serbia has been on the rise since we, representatives of the SNS, headed by our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. During the rule of democratic power, Mr. Gilas was present over two thousand times only on TV, whether through political shows or advertising videos, while then the management of Studio B television, led by Mr. Gilas, never invited anyone from the SNS. While we have a situation today that many opposition leaders, who are not even in parliament, are uninterrupted and give interviews to electronic and printed media, is a completely opposite situation, if we compare the previous and today's, and on the other hand, we still feel the terror of Dragan Gilas, because he banned the presence at press conferences with current journalists "Study B" and some other editorials. Our president, that is, the press service, invites all the electronic, or printed media, and is happy to answer everyone’s questions, even in an unwise way, even if they have put a mobile phone with a particular question directly in his face. In the end, my conclusion is that if there is a state, there must be media freedom, which our president has already proved, because we agreed to change the media set of laws, and there must be an even bigger paradox that the DS approved during their reign, and that law didn't bother them at all. In your day, it was normal for you that the state had all the rights, and the man didn't have them, while it was completely the other way around. It's not hard to destroy the state, as you've already shown, it's hard to put on firm feet, which we keep trying hard. Dear citizens, we are proof of media freedom and we will talk about it tomorrow and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71275	The word has the People's MP Studenka Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71276	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, when we talk about the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, just over three months ago, this agency approved a plan for the development of the transmission network, ending in 2028 and investment objectives, in the 2019 cycle. - 2021. The document was drawn up by a transmission network operator, i.e. the Serbia Power Network. The list of production capacities, expected to connect to power lines, lists 14 wind power plants. In October of last year, it officially started "Cibuk 1", the largest wind farm, not only in Serbia, but also in the Western Balkans, with 57 wind generators, which can supply 113,000 households. This is the project of the company from Abu Dhabi and is a huge step towards moving to clean, green energy in Serbia. The investment is worth 300m euros and has brought 158 megawatts of power. Such projects have allowed Serbia to produce 27% of its renewable energy needs, thus reducing the use of coal in electricity production. With this in mind, the city of Bor is working on a detailed regulation plan, followed by a project technical documentation, to start building wind power 50 megawatts in the area of the Black Summit. The idea is that the wind farm has 14 turbines on Bora territory, and the remaining seven on the territory of the neighbouring municipality of Zaguvica. Otherwise, the Black Mountain is known for its high wind intensity, and the company running this project has been measuring the wind for the past seven years on this mountain. It was established to be one of the best locations in Serbia. It is a domestic company, and their ambition is to obtain a building and energy license by 2021 and then start raising towers immediately. The value of this investment is estimated at around 100m euros. So, as far as wind energy is concerned, Serbia is slowly covering all those locations that are suitable for raising wind parks and so far there are seven that are in operation, and there will be more. In addition to wind energy, we all know that using the sun's energy, i.e. solar energy, has the greatest potential, because of the sunny days in our country, because of the amount of sunny days. What it certainly means to every household in Serbia are these solar panels, to meet their own needs for electricity, and I think that households in southern Serbia, at least according to what I have been able to see, are ahead of this opportunity. In any case, the use of free environmental and eternal energy sources, which is very important for the preservation of the environment, is also important for some financial savings, but there is still plenty of room to improve this area. I hope the Ministry of Energy, in the years ahead, will work harder on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71277	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71278	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, last year, the finance ministry worked very hard to amend the rules, especially the law that creates better conditions for business in Serbia. It is a way to create an attractive and normal Serbian image. Serbia, which by all parameters and standards of business, is hardly different from developed EU and world countries. Today we are talking about giving consent to the Commission's financial plan for 2020, on the proposal of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Given the need to allow greater availability and attractiveness of domestic securities of value, foreign investors, to reduce the cost of domestic securities of value in order to improve the financial market in general, which enables the base and structure of potential investors to invest in domestic securities of value. All of this is a prerequisite for the rapid development of the Republic of Serbia, because our goal is to raise over five at 4.2 or 4.4 feet of growth. In November 2019, the growth rate was as much as 6%. Serbia has already put on the "Index Watch Positive" list, and this is a clear signal that Serbia has met all the preconditions to be found in a reputed group of developing countries that international investors consider safe to invest. The goal is to increase the share of foreign investment in domestic bonds by 40%. Euroclear is a Belgian-based company specialising in trading and preserving domestic and cross-border charters of values: bonds, shares or donations, making it easier for foreign investors to access local markets. Serbia has been financially consolidated, thanks to the professional and wise conduct of financial policy since 2012 and the results have been our policy for the past seven years. Since 2016, we have a surplus in our budget, which means we've saved 12.8 billion dinars more than we've spent. I would point out in 2018, as a record inflow of foreign direct investment has been achieved for 3.8 billion euros. It's not even easy considering the big competition. It is enough to look at the countries surrounding us, and they also want to develop their economies, but primarily thanks to the reputation of our president in the world, we are successfully dealing with competition. New cars are being built, new investments are being attracted, tunnels and bridges are being built, new infrastructure is being invested, new factories are opening up. I want Serbian citizens to know that over 60% of all investments coming into this region come to Serbia. When we talk about the project "Serbia 2025" 14 billion euros, we will invest in: water pipeline, waste water treatment plants, sewerage, railways, education, health care, digitalisation, improvement of business environment, transport and energy, environmental protection, anything that encourages our country to be attractive and competitive, as foreseen by the project "Serbia 2025" and the Economic Policy Programme. I would also like to say once again that we look at the benefits of developing the capital market in Serbia and I congratulate you on signing the Memorandum of Understanding with Euroclear All this brings more foreign capital to Serbia's market and lower debt costs, which is an excellent base for an even greater economic growth in our country's economy at over 5%. And these aren't just numbers, but every citizen of this country feels that he lives better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71279	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71280	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Finance Minister Mr. Sinisa Mali, explaining the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act said it would enable it to increase the base and structure of potential investors who would invest in domestic securities of value, which is another of the activities of the Ministry of Finance aimed at developing the capital market. Foreign investors and funds will be able to invest in domestic securities of value and in the Serbian capital market in a quick and very efficient way. By increasing the availability and attractiveness of domestic charters of value to foreign investors, we reduce the cost of funding and provide better diversification of investors investing in domestic securities of value. This improves and develops the capital market. Last year, we had two very successful Eurobond emissions at the historic lowest interest rates. On the last issue of bonds in November, we broadcast 550m euros in bonds, with a contribution of 1.25%. Previously on June, we issued a bond of one billion euros per 10 years with a rate of 1,619% and six times the demand. The government of Serbia plans to broadcast about 230 billion dinars of dinar paper on the domestic market, as well as euro-denominated bonds in international capital markets worth 2 billion euros. The government also stepped up investment spending plans, vowing to spend about 14 billion euros over the next five years to improve the living standard of infrastructure. Of course, our 2020 to 2025 programme is just investing 14 billion euros in infrastructure, in all areas of the economy. Let's just remember what Mr. Mali said, only two billion euros goes directly to the infrastructure, as far as the sewers are concerned. This was a completely devastated city. In 2012, it almost went bankrupt, a country in front of bankruptcy. And today? Today we have a surplus in the budget - 12.8 billion dinars. That's why we can move forward, that's why we have an increase. We only remember what our GDP was like in 2012, minus 3.5%. Today plus 3.5%. In the last six months plus 4% with a tendency to make a 7% increase there for the next five years. That's the way it works! This is how the government of the Republic of Serbia works. We'll invest in education. We've already had reform, we've invested a lot of money. We'll have more reforms. We'll make an increase in wages and pensions. Namely, the minimum personal income was in 2012, 16.200,00 dinars. It's 30.020,00 dinars today. The minimum salary was 320 euros, today 500 euros with the projection of our programme to be 900 euros... Excuse me, the pension will range from 430 euros to 440 euros. That's how we do it! We invest in agriculture, invest in young people. How? By building their apartments, so we'll improve the quality of their lives, so we'll invest in procreation, absolutely in every segment of life. Let me get back to my records of value. I'd like to congratulate you, by the way, yesterday, the Ministry of Finance and Euroclear signed a Memorandum of Understanding that will allow market conditions to be created for more efficient broadcasting of state charters of value denominated in dinars. The Republic of Serbia's intention is to allow its bonds to be traded through the Euroclear platform, which will make it easier for foreign investors to have access to the state securities market of value. Finally, for the record, Euroclear is a group, otherwise a reliable financial system for a balance operation. The group basically provides for the settlement and preservation of domestic and foreign bonds, shares and derivatives to investment funds. "Euroclear" is a reputable, reliable capital market infrastructure that contributes to risk reduction, automation and efficiency at global client franchise level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71281	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71282	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, great attention these days has attracted the new Investment Plan "Serbia 2025" on which I want to say a few things, which include projects and investments worth 14 billion euros. This amount will be implemented by 2025, in a different area, and the most discussed is the average salary that will reach 900 euros and a pension that will reach around 440 euros. One of the priorities I have set for start is young people in Serbia. We want them to school in Serbia, stay in Serbia, work and live with their families and friends, and not go to other countries looking for better working conditions. This involves, of course, large investments to ensure the same or better conditions in relation to countries abroad. The investment plan envisions 700m euros for: building apartments for young couples; financing artificial insemination; for newborn children around 200m euros will be allocated; for new kindergartens, 60m euros; new funds for protecting and preventing children suffering from autism and so on. The health care will be invested 600m euros, allowing 16 new hospitals, six new clinics and two new "Clinic Centres" to be built by 2025. It will be a continuation of investment, in infrastructure, in the health care that we started. I only mention a new Clinical Centre in Nis, which is now a regional health centre that covers the needs of people from Southeastern Serbia with the most modern equipment at about 50,000 squares, which provides citizens with adequate healthcare, and on the other hand the possibility for medical workers to get a job, and we have already talked here at the tide about increasing salaries for doctors and nurses. The last increase for doctors was 10% and for nurses was 15%. Greater detachments are planned for infrastructure, for construction of new highways, for reconstruction of about 5,000km of existing roads and railways, worth 9,000,000,000 euros. At this point we can boast of hundreds of kilometers of new highways, and the new investment plan will work further, of course, on the development of both air and rail traffic. All of this can be done thanks to the reform of public finances and the application of all the measures we have implemented since 2014. If we recall in 2008, then Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic announced the formation of a ministry for the national investment plan. The Minister for National Investment Plan was Dragan Gilas, of course, as a fit DS. Instead of capital projects for Serbia, instead of developing infrastructure in the poorest municipalities in Serbia, money is who knows what it was spent on. This led to a reduction in the ministry's budget to make it happen in 2010 that the ministry had 15.5 billion, and in 2011 7.7 billion and that there was no money for promises, infrastructure and Serbia's development. In 2012, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy, when the SNS took over, but took responsibility to change the situation in Serbia. The complete picture was terrible - of the projects nothing, the state register empty, salaries and pensions insecure, new investments in any area were impossible at that time. In 2008, Dragan Gilas was therefore the minister of the national investment plan and candidate for mayor of Belgrade. He just actually moved from one function to another and nothing else changed. They kept having affairs. We had a reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, underground containers, privatization of Luke Belgrade. Only the City of Belgrade software package cost more than 9,000,000 euros. So Gilas left Serbia first, and then the City of Belgrade without investment, and the City of Belgrade with debts of around 900,000 euros. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it took over in 2012, had a very difficult situation in the country and a huge responsibility on the other hand towards citizens who supported it. We had to start with the smallest things in order to be able to bring the first budget to the level of stability, and then to think at all about any development and then those who lost the election to us, when we presented plans for Serbia's future, they laughed at us, and I believe that today is not funny when they see what we've done, because we have results that we can present to the citizens, and we have plans that are feasible, because we have managed to stabilise the budget. And now we hear in their media that Serbia's new investment plan in 2025 is just a list of good wishes, but there are days when both "N1" and "Today" and all other media will announce that these planned projects in Serbia have been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71283	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71284	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have ahead of us the financial plans of independent regulatory bodies, which were previously under review by the Committee on Budgets and Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the plans of independent regulatory bodies on the board were adopted and the committee responsible proposed to the National Assembly that these proposals, or financial plans, be adopted after consideration. During today's debate, the MPs here in the National Assembly have shown that we are in an open way having a debate and debate on the financial plans of those regulatory bodies that are not financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but, of course, their work is being supervised and controlled by the committee responsible, that is, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to say that, since 2012, the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the responsible policy of our President Alexander Vukic and the SNS, has achieved extraordinary results in all segments of social life, especially in the economic field. Serbia today is the fastest growing economy in this part of Europe. Serbia today ranks 44th out of the world's 80 most powerful countries when it comes to three parameters -- political, economic and military. The governor of the National Bank of Serbia, thanks to the support measures and thanks to one team effort, together with the government and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, received recognition for 2019 as the best governor in the world. The gold exchange reserves, i.e. the gold reserves at the National Bank of Serbia, are never higher today. By 2012, the tycoons that were part of the accident were run by the country and entirely by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We lived in that accident, and the yellow tycoons enjoyed the accident and got rich in person. Today they would like to return to power not for the sake of the people, not for the sake of the citizens, not for their own sake, but for their own pockets. The people of Serbia know and recognize it. He recognizes work, recognizes responsibility, recognizes results, recognizes courage in every possible sense and patriotism primarily towards his country and his people, which is the patriotism of Alexander Vukic. That is why Serbian citizens have no alternative in the April elections. The only policy is the policy of new factories, new jobs, peace and stability, reducing unemployment. It is a policy represented by Aleksandar Vukic and will give him great confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71285	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71286	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, since, in the current part of the discussion, most of what I was about to say is said, I will take advantage of the opportunity to present one of the news that is today, and I believe that in the coming days will be the main news that will be spoken of, as others see us, because it is one thing that we speak of our own successes, and it is quite another how someone who is completely neutral sees us. It's important for us, and it's important for the opposition. So it's important for all voters in Serbia. It's also important for those who might boycott the election. So, in a special addition titled – Serbia is going forward lightningly, the Financial Times has through three thematic texts and through an interview with Finance Minister Sinish Mali presented the successes of our country's economic and financial reforms, which, according to the British list, made one of the European economic stars of Serbia. So, the country's GDP has been growing almost continuously since 2014, to reach the ten-year record of 4.4% in 2018, the paper writes. Despite international uncertainty in challenging the economy in parts of the EU, Serbia grew 4.2% in 2019 among the highest rates in Europe and is one of the rare countries in the world that surpassed its annual assessment. For almost seven years, Serbia has recorded a steady growth in foreign direct investment that reached a record 3.5 billion euros or 8.2% of GDP in 2018. Foreign investments in 2019 rose more compared to the previous year to 3.8 billion euros, and with the economic rebirth and reforms under way, the interest of dominant foreign investors in Serbia is constantly growing. Most foreign investment, around 70%, continues to come from EU countries, especially from Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Austria, which have invested large funds in Serbian production, especially in car components. US foreign direct investment is another prominent player says Financial Times, while the Chinese have grown significantly in recent years, making up 20% of the total inflow of foreign direct investment in Serbia in 2018. Greenfield investments from China to Serbia last year reached record levels with 16 projects worth $625m. In addition to financial consolidation and respect for monetary policy, Serbia has implemented a number of structural reforms, particularly with regard to labour market flexibility, financial sector reforms and the reduction of non-quality loans. Then, in the field of tax policy, the ease of obtaining building permits etc. The unemployment rate fell to 9.5% last year from 26% in 2013. A success in public debt management has been achieved, down from about 77% to 51%. Serbia has a BB plus credit rating with positive prospects, and has also made impressive progress on the Doing Business List of the World Bank, jumping from 93rd place in 2013 to 44th position in 2019 among 190 countries. In addition to strong macroeconomic indicators, foreign investors find Serbia offers an irresistible range of attractive business conditions. The lowest operating costs in the European frameworks, taxes and customs reliefs, state subsidies and incentives of local self-government, the release of income tax for ten years, the import of equipment without any customs duties and other duties, the benefits of a double tax avoidance agreement with as many as 59 countries. The benefits of foreign investors can be found in 15 free economic zones in Serbia, and investment with large capital and the number of employees can also qualify for state subsidies. Human resources in Serbia are also one of the advantages of our country. In addition to a high number of English-speaking people, Serbia ranks 27th among 150 countries according to the World Bank's Human Capital Index, the highest place in the Balkans region. The record-high gross and net foreign exchange reserves of the NBS provide protection against any external shocks. The price stability, relative stability of the dinar course and financial stability have also been achieved. Serbia is firmly on its way to EU membership and that it is not yet a member that provides certain freedom for the country to benefit from the benefits that such a situation offers. For example, this allows us to have all these free trade agreements with different countries, such as Turkey, to have preferential status with the United States, good contracts and agreements with China, the Central-European Free Trade Agreement, the Agreement with the European Economic Union, etc. In late 2019, Serbia announced a new "Serbia 2025" investment programme, under which an additional 14 billion euros will be invested in infrastructure under the basic infrastructure, and is expected to be the backbone of the new investment cycle and the inflow of private investment will be even greater. The development of the Serbian sector, IT services, software and hardware is the fastest growing part of the country's industry, whose exports have been growing strongly since 2015, surpassing a billion euros in the past two years. Although Serbia is a small IT player on a global and even European level, this sector is now making 10% of the country's GDP. The country employs about 2,000 IT companies that employ around 20,000 people. Serbia experienced an unprecedented level of foreign investment in 2019 in this sector, and US companies were the most attractive investor in the area, such as IBM, Schneider Electric, SKF-, Adobea, Eagle, Google, HP, etc. Serbian salaries in the IT sector are almost three times the national average, but remain below the EU average for the sector. 30% of all Serbian university students are enrolled in the directions of engineering, mathematics, computing, and more than 35 higher education institutions offer these programmes. The Serbian government is offering financial incentives to "start ap" firms, as expectations are that the country's technological sector could reverse the process of brain draining, present in the entire Balkans, which has caused Serbia to lose 5% of the population over the past decade. So, all of this I have stated in my special supplement entitled "Serbia Goes Lightningly" published the Financial Times and thus presented the successes of our country's economic and fiscal reforms, which the British list found, made one of the European economic stars of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71287	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71288	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, honourable MPs, the Securities Commission is an independent and independent state organisation, a capital market regulator in the Republic of Serbia. Its basic functions are aimed at protecting investors and ensuring an efficient market and reducing risk. The Commission reduces, gives explanations of the basic concepts of functioning of the capital market, but also organises, undertakes and controls the implementation of measures to ensure the legal, fair, orderly and efficient functioning of the regulated market. The key is to provide conditions for attracting more market participants, to provide greater security to investors. The Commission took part in the draft law on stock exchanges, alternative investment funds and thus extended its directive on the functioning of supervision. It thus made an active contribution to the development of this capital sphere. Trends of reducing interest rates from year to year are a confirmation of our country's credit rating, but also a confirmation of success, the progress of our economic reforms. All this thanks to the approach, responsible and precise public finances, a stable course of dinars that we have and macroeconomic stability. All this leads to the opening of room for salary increases, pensions, for more investment in infrastructure projects. Serbia is a business leader, a investment leader. All this means that financial institutions are secure in the growth and development of the Serbian economy and have confidence in this government, and the businessmen who open their factories here have confidence. In this regard, it is companies that plan their business in the long term. By investing in securities of value and the excellent response of investors in our securities, Serbia is attractive, safe, safe for them and becomes a secure partner for many years and many investors who have sought our bonds. With responsible policy, we managed to settle the finances, increase the credit rating, which is about the success of the reform, to restore trust in our country. This way we reduce the cost of capital for our country, reduce the risk of investment in our country. It speaks of the stability and security of our financial system. This shows investors have confidence in Serbia's financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71289	Thank you, colleague Ljubic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71290	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my predecessors, MPs, have mostly said everything they needed to say, let my smallness say a few words. In the first row on REM, as a regulatory body, and to say that he worked enough regardless of the criticisms he had been given these years and progressed unlike before when Gilas, in a people known as the Gjiki Mafia, was editing Serbia's media picture of 619m euros. There is no media blockade of respected citizens, that's fiction, that's the mantra of those who don't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the elections. those from the Alliance for Serbia. The same story was told by the Alliance for Serbia in 2000. The same people, the same words when they took power on the street, and in the elections as you remember and you know, Dr Vojislav Kostunica did not win the election, and Milosevic did not lose. And, remember well, the second round of choices was gone. The act is one of the two biggest blows of parliamentaryism in Serbia's history. In 2000, I quote -- another part of scientists, journalists, actors and directors performed, and today performs a Western appology, allegedly proving that the US and NATO were right when they crashed, bombed Serbia and the SRJ from the book "Demonisation of Serbs". Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the same people do today. Gilas Dragan, a people known as the Điki Mafia, called for a share of citizens and MPs of the Republic of Serbia on the street and on the boycott, and I quote -- if we throw out the dialogue from parliament, then as a society, we have a problem. That's where they talk. If we stop the media, they'll explode somewhere. Who needs that? , finished quote, thought parliament, Dragan Gilas on December 1st, Mr 2018. His colleague, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, in a folk known as Janko Stanocrat, on September 11, 2019, adds to Dragan Gilas, and says, quote: "After the boycott, ask for new elections to be called. Turning the military and the police to the side of the protesters," finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you see what they want, to tear Serbia apart, to take power on the street, to rob the country, to destroy the economy, to abolish jobs, and to send you, as in 2000, to the streets, to respect citizens. They did it back then. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you heard about N1 television today, I call it the CIA. The TV is a pure political party of deception, lies and fraud that muds the president of the Republic of Serbia, now announces a documentary, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable MPs and all that has been done in this country for the past eight years. He's carrying out a clean destruction in the state. It is a major factor and a continuation of the 1990 Serb demonisation. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry for a weekly who was one of the best in this part of Europe, and this is a weekly in our country, in which my smallness has timed out on scientific topics with philosopher Vuk Pavicevic, one of the greatest and best ethicians of all time in Serbia, which has turned to a low level from the bottom of the snake, which daily poisons citizens with lies and delusions, you respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And I address journalist Petrusic with this quote, Mrs Petrusic, for what you have written in the last issue, quote -- the job of the journalist is to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to injure, to bow before the golden calf, and to sell their own country and people to earn bread. Everyone knows that, and then why all the praises about the independent press? We are the tools and servants of the rich behind the scenes, and Mrs. Petrusic, we are the puppets, they draw the strings, and we dance. Our talent, our opportunities and our lives are owned by other people. And it ends with a sentence -- we're intellectual prostitutes. A close quote, said John Swinton, former chief of staff at the New York Times in a toast he held outside the New York Press Club in 1953. Finally, the Republic of Serbia will continue to implement its country's modernisation further together with its citizens, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and most respected MPs, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our esteemed President, Aleksandar Vukic. On that behalf, thank you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71291	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71292	Thank you, Comrade George. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all know that the finances of the vessels are the housewives of every system of every country, every company. They're a blood stream, and unless we have a well-resolved funding, it's hardly gonna survive our company, our country or our system. At the same time, we must create and bring to the right places the right people who will manage these finances, because it is much harder to manage finances than to create them. I think it's one of the bigger problems in our country, that the unsuitable personnel in the important positions were not real and did not well preserve what was created. To do that, we have to, as our people say -- take three steps once, think about it before we put some people in certain places. We've had countless examples in both the press and the media, and this is how we've heard that individuals have managed to do millions of damages, ten-million euro damages in individual companies. Anything that tries to create power, to provide an environment, to make life much easier and better for the citizens of Serbia, an individual can destroy by his ignorance, with his boast for a variety of reasons. There are those who defend themselves by being independent. What does it mean to be independent? Well, it's not that they're dependent on brains, on brains, that they're independent of morality. No, they're just allowed to do their job without tutoring. On the other hand, the one who sets them up has to take care of how they work, whether they work well or not, has to be monitored regularly to get the system in a normal position if there is a mistake. There's a saying in our people, I remember my late grandfather Stajko, the Blackwater, the host, the good old man used to tell me a lot – son, don't let your goat keep the cabbage. We make sure that the goat doesn't guard our cabbage as individuals and as a state, but very often it happens to us to let some of us who are independent of the brain, of morality, of managing large systems, of managing wealthy companies and doing millions and billions of damages and destroying both the system and the company in which they are located. Here's what it looks like -- Black Trava, one of the poorer municipalities in Serbia, has a budget of between 150 million and 200 million, and how many of those experts who have managed to destroy the state, destroy some municipality or company by tens and tens and hundreds of millions of euros. We can't let that happen, we can't let the goat keep our cabbage, we can't let those who are brain-independent, out of their minds run our finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71293	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, every time we touch a topic that has to do with the work of the Republic Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, it is inevitable to ask the issue of media in our country as a whole. This is what many MPs have spoken about today, and perhaps the most vivid and convincing indicator of the situation in the media is when every citizen of this country looks nicely, as they say, at their own eyes, at what these images look like on, here, the day of today. It's Thursday again, and you already know what it means, the day the famous Sundays come out who are politically absolutely classified, absolutely scarred, and on the very side that thinks all the worst under God's grace about Alexander Vukic, about the SNS, about us MPs who make up the parliamentary majority and don't hide it at all. That is, therefore, clear to anyone who is a citizen of this country. It's enough to go out to the first newsstand, walk around and look at what the media scene in Serbia looks like today. You look at it, and it seems to me, out of those four or how many Sundays what anyone has on the front page, here, today, so you see that one holds a promotional story about the Alliance for Serbia's Youth, Dragan Gilas, that the other promotes a text that says that Aleksandar Vukic, how well they came up with, and now they explain it to the citizens of Serbia, wins the elections because he's dealing with intimidation, because he's applying beatings and because, of course, he's captured the media. That's what these captured media are telling us completely free, completely easy, without any consequences, of course, as it should be, because they're so trapped. The third is a new series of completely pointless accusations at the expense of the MUP, which also makes them prone to daily papers. The fourth, again, does it in its own way by telling us through the mouth of an actor that the whole of Serbia is one big nuthouse and that, of course, it's our fault. Who else would it be? There, the media is so trapped in this terrible dictatorship, in this unimaginable autocracies that they can't breathe. Of course, in this country he says, he talks, he writes, he says, he draws, he presents cartoons with whatever anyone wants, as much as he wants, and it's absolutely more than obvious. Once again, you do not need professional opinions so-called. The experts of anyone's, it's enough for you to rely on your own eyes and your sense of vision. When we talk about the situation in the media, yes, it was absolutely inevitable to remind those who are now members of the REM Council, but also those who will start to deal with this duty, already as much as tomorrow, and of course we will talk more about it in the National Assembly tomorrow when we discuss the selection of new members of the REM Council. However, all these people should be warned in time what challenges they will face at the job, which challenges those who are doing the job now, to bring little closer to Serbia's citizens to understand it better. Today, in Serbia, the theme, when it is said, of course, is the freedom of the media, whether REM is all-powerful, as it is represented by those who do not hide their ambition to control it completely again, and therefore it is about representatives of the former regime, name and last name, it is about Dragan Djilas and his business partners, also to tycoons such as Djilas, Šolak, Miskovic, those whom Dragan Djilas, of course, gathered under his lap today, such as Vuk Jeremic, such as Ljoticvac Bosko Obradovic, such as the various remains of DS. So the most important thing for them is that REM is again in control and that's also one of the things that are generally known and not hidden. They say they have to control the REM, but not because they care about their channels and their businesses stretching, that they have put their channels first and second on the remote control of those cable operators that they already have under their ownership, but that they are doing so with all of them, but that they are doing so with other channels, so that they can be reunited with the public service that they would like to work with again, and again, beautiful, powerful millions of euros in their pockets, are being placed at the expense of this co-operation. These people say REM won't protect the free media in this country, and in doing so they're apostrophe, first of all, their N1 television. So everybody knows it's one of the current stories these days, these weeks, these months, how you prefer. They say they're threatened by their N1 and because they've talked about how this program works, how that TV works, I don't want to repeat it all now, but I want to make it perfectly clear what that television is for. This television, so let them be angry as much as they want and let them complain to whoever they want, serves exclusively for campaigning, political campaigning against Alexander Vukic, against the SNS, against the MPs who, you can imagine, dared to say that something is not normal here. What do they say? They say the target is the campaign, when their own words are repeated that, imagine this, they're being broadcast from Luxembourg. They said so themselves. When people laugh at them, they say – you laugh because you are politically persecuting us, because you are campaigning against us. They say -- we're being terrorized by the state, they say -- we're being abused by anyone who says we're American television. With this in mind, that everyone from that N1 television and every Serbian citizen who hasn't heard it at all. Here's what their pets say, here's what people in their ranks say. The project is called "Media Ownership Monitor Serbia". The project is run by BIRN, you know, their BIRN, and the Reporters Without Borders, and it's funding, and it's interesting to know, the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation. So, this ministry is funding, and BIRN and Reporters are doing content without borders. They write on their website who they are and what their N1 television is. You know what they say? They say it's cable television, which is the branch office of the US CNN in Belgrade, and they still say that before they started working, they negotiated that N1 will start working, you know who, former CIA director David Petreus, means now I read what this "media ownership" says, and former US ambassador to Serbia Cameron Manter. So, if the U.S. says both their BIRN and their border-free reporters are supported by the German ministry's money. This isn't what Alexander Vukic tells them, this isn't what nobody from SNS tells them, but this is what their pets tell them. They are also told that according to BIRN, Reporter without Borders and others have lobbyed in Brussels, the KKR and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to allow the television to start working in Serbia. You know what else they say, they say the stake in the N1 TV coverage in Serbia is 0.55%. Now, this is how important they are, this is how much they care about us dealing with them politically and fighting, 0.55% is their share of ratings, which, according to the source of this BIRN, and their reporters without borders, is a brother to a brother of about forty, maybe 43, four times less ratings than there is one RTS. These are they, according to their pets, as they see themselves. Even if they knew, their owners, their United Media, were banned by this letter on January 17th, pay attention, banned Telecom from playing both "N1" and all other channels. They said - you'll answer materially and criminally if you release those channels, and then why "N1" runs a political campaign, N1 comes out and says - the evil Telecom took us off the cable. He says - the evil Telecom, since it works for the evil Alexander Vukic and the evil SNS, does not allow Serbian citizens to hear and see "N1". Since they have heard and seen all but "N1", please inform these with "N1", your owner has removed you from the cable, your owner threatens "Telecom" if he dares to release your signal. Then "Telecom" shows that it can be above the situation and then "Telecom" says -- you know what, we'll let you go free, we'll let "N1", not just where you're taking off because you asked for it, but we'll let you go wherever we can. It says -- 200,000 users had you, so you asked to be taken down, well, we're going to give you 800,000 users, we're going to bring you where you've never been, four times as much to provide you with people, absolutely free of charge, we're not asking you for anything. And, you know where it's recorded, it's recorded on the website "N1". I'm asking them to come by and read their website and see that it happened, because they're obviously pretending they don't know it happened. The thing ends the next way, the "N1" says -- well, we can't, we won't go to those 800,000 people, so we admit that we're liars when we say that we just care, that it's the only thing that matters to us in this whole world, to get to the viewers, but we're not even going to talk to Telecom any further. It's also on the N1 site, so somebody let them know if they can read their website. Why are they doing all this? There are two motives in the whole story, and that's what I end up with, first of all, because they're asking for money. So, most of them in this world are interested in money, they want to push it out, it seems to me that some tens of millions of euros are in question, from Telecom, and they say -- if you don't give us that money, we're going to keep this circus going and then we're going to talk about being politically persecuted and then we're going to talk about that in Serbia that there's no "N1" that's a free channel, and we're going to ban it ourselves and we're going to threaten to sue more. Another thing that people in this country also need to know, this story has no free media, this story -- it shuts us down by mean "Telecom" and mean Vuk Vukic, serves to tell us today that whenever they meet with a foreign official, he's so full of himself -- they've cut us off "N1". So that's what these Gilas, the Jeremics can say in the white world. Two, that Dragan Gilas when he sends, I have to say some pretty funny letters to Sam Fabrizia, can make the same thing, literally from word to word, to say – we have been lifted by our free channel. So, racketeering clean and classical, like everything else they've done, because not to lie to each other, otherwise these people can't function. If he had been able to do otherwise, by predicting to start his business, Dragan Djilas would not have been witnessed by his former associates, for example by Miodrag Kostic of the DS, who himself, Dragan Djilas, in that racketeering and capture. This is what all people need to know in order to properly judge both the media situation and the situation in Serbia today, and every actor on the political scene, starting from us here to the tycoon and the thieves gathered around that Gilas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71295	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 8 to 11 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday 13 February 2020, starting at 17pm and 35 minutes, as the day for voting on the agendas of the twenty-third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-13-0.u71296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask my fellow Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting site. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to resolution. Before we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 1 to 7 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraphs 12 and 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the choice of judges and deputy public prosecutors and on the termination of the office of the president of the court by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the Court in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, in general. I'm closing the vote: for - 128, against - no one with abstentions - has, of course, a total of 128. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time for the judicial financing since 28 October 2019, in general. I'm closing the vote: for - 129, against - no one with abstentions - has, of course, a total of 129. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 18 December 2019, in general. I'm closing the vote: for - 129, against - no one with abstentions - has, of course, a total of 129. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time to serve as judges since 9 January 2020, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 14 January 2020, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, as of 25 November 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, as of 26 November 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, congratulate the elected bearers on the selection and to wish them a lot of success in the work. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commission's financial plan for values for 2020, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2020, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Rebalance of the Finance Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am putting to the vote the draft decision on granting consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the twenty-third extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
