ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70742	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the 20nd extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 137 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to appoint in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, since we Serbian radicals have repeatedly requested the reconstruction of the Serbian government, because of various criminal affairs involving individual ministers, and that the government has disobeyed this request and is leading the policy of protecting all its ministers, regardless of the suspicious circumstances of their work and actions. Today I ask the question – why did the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, not at least ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic to resign publicly? They arrested all of her close associates, the entire rail transport sector, his top in prison or under investigation, and she initially was being embellished by some of the people who called her, and then started defending them. It is also a demonstration against the government's officially announced policy on the fight against crime, when the state-run official who just got out of prison officially receives in his ministry. She even affected that the acting prosecutor decided to give up his prosecution, and then the prosecution changed that decision the same day afternoon, and Poledica is still prosecuted with the others arrested. All that Zorana Mihajlovic is the most innocent, all that, as you love a lie detector or a medical examination, prove her innocence, she has moral responsibility, at the same time she would have to resign herself. Morality cannot be expected of it, but why does the Government put many things at stake, even before the elections themselves? It is not our fault that it will damage you in these elections, the number of votes, even that we look forward to, but we do not like the situation in which Serbian authorities tolerate crime at the top of the state. It's not just Zorana Mihajlovic. How did your criminal affairs begin? They started with former President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, already saying his fake diplomas, college and master's degree. Everyone knows that not one single exam has been passed and no one is doing anything. Then how do you plan to prosecute other criminals successfully? I thought Marija Obradovic was going to defend Tom Nikolic, I was afraid a little. How do you think the other big criminals are arrested, tried, if you don't judge this chief in your ranks? Still the Government makes up a regulation to arrest him after he retires and employs 30 of his incompetent associates who, by who knows what criteria, are employed in the cabinet of the President of the Republic? How do you think you're taking away property from people who can't prove their origin and not taking away the Church of Tomislav Nikolic that he built for a million euros in his village, where there are only 16 living people and where it's impossible to maintain the service of God, because not everyone goes to church and there's no one to support a parish elder or priest? How do you think large criminals are prosecuted without being tried by Dragica Nikolic for malfeasance in her foundation. These are questions we haven't yet received an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70744	Time's up. Anyone else want to ask a question? The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70745	Thank you. My first question today, I refer to the Ministry of Health and the Director of the RFO, is, that is, I am asking the question again, therefore, about patients with multiple sclerosis as announced and how we had the opportunity to see when we adopted the budget for this calendar year. Significant means have been allocated to buy additional high-efficiency drugs that will cover approximately 1,300 patients with multiple sclerosis. But the question arises – what will we do for those patients who will not be covered by these new treatments? In total, there are multiplesclerosis patients, somewhere around nine thousand and I honestly express concern, what will happen to the rest, so about, about seven thousand patients in this case will run out of medication. I remind the Minister of Health, Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, that there are some countries where the treatment of multiplesclerosis sufferers is resolved by buying and allowing patients to reach the so-called. Of-leebl medications. Among them is one of the most effective, a medicine called 'Rituximad', and according to what I have as information is prescribed to patients in Sweden, since this drug is far more favourable, it seems to me that the separation from the budget that has been directed to treat multiplesclerosis patients would have been much better to deal with, perhaps issues as to how some other countries have solved this issue. I refer the second question to the Ministry of Justice, I repeat it practically, so I refer the question to Minister Kuburovic, I ask her – what happens to the law that should deal with the issue of missing babies? Again, the public is said to be writing a new draft amending and supplementing laws, and this writing does not include associations of parents seeking their missing children and not involving relevant NGOs who have been dealing with this issue for many years. I repeat, is it true that the bill, which is minor before entering the assembly procedure and the question is also, why are not relevant associations of parents and relevant NGOs involved? The third question today is referred to the Ministry of Labour, Minister Djordjevic, so the question is about the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, almost 19, 20 months as this law came into force, as a number of mothers, i.e. maternity care is being compensated at just a few hundred dinars. In a dozen times, we had the opportunity to listen to the competent minister, Djordjevic, as well as to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, that the amendment and addition of the laws would be found in the Assembly procedure, but until today he has not come. Given that the near end of this call is the question of Minister Djordjevic and I ask him to send a timely reply, after he has been responsibly evading, when the draft amendments and additions of the Financial Support Act to the family with children will be found in the assembly procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70746	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70747	I'm going to ask one question, and as far as Serbian hunters are concerned, people with personal security weapons are concerned, and we're witnessing that a year and a half ago a law on arms and ammunition has been passed, which has been defined as the deadline by March 5th, that all those who have personal weapons, or weapons of personal security, who have hunting weapons, have to reregister that by March 5th, and according to some of my information in the conversation with people who have and who know that there are nearly 400,000 left, that they haven't reregistered their weapons. From all of this comes the situation, since it may remain for 15 or 20 days until 5 March, where we will then enter an election campaign, where there will be no possibility of weapons reregistering after that deadline, and those people who do not bring weapons, or enter the re-registering process, these people will have problems with the law, will be prosecuted. Because of this, my question is whether the MUP will enter into the procedure of changing this Arms and Ammunition Act, to give the possibility to extend the re-registration deadline, to give it a few more months, to re-register that weapon and most of all because people can behave more freely tomorrow and not pay some penalties. Otherwise, a large number of hunters in Serbia have had suggestions on the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, where within the Ministry, the Hunting Union of Serbia, a group working to change this law and to be a little more flexible, more liberal in the work that hunters have a longer period of time for which they do not have to do health checks and to be more liberal for the purchase of hunting weapons. Otherwise, we are witnessing that hunters and hunting associations in all of Serbia are very active when needed. When temperatures are high, when they're low temperatures, hunters are hired to rescue, to help people. One more thing, it's very important, when he had infectious diseases, such as African swine fever, there are hunters very engaged in the control of infectious diseases. One of the things the hunters were very active for during this previous period, it was a search for the villain who kidnapped little Monica. Everyone who was here, we were in the field, and the hunters were one of the most organized, there was the police, the army, and all of us who were really contributed to finding the girl. For this reason, my question is – will for the next 20 days enter into the process of changing this Arms and Ammunition Act and giving it the opportunity to extend the deadline for the registration of weapons, so that all those who have not done so so far can complete it and have opportunities, because it is a big problem. It's 400,000 faces and it's a large number of people, and in this short time, I'm sure there won't be any possibilities. Otherwise, the Arms and Ammunition Act was passed in the previous period. The law is, as I can tell, I voted for that law, but with some of the supplements that should be now, conversations are being conducted, it would be necessary to extend this deadline for some next period, not to be on March 5th, because it is a need for a large number of citizens who have guns, would it be for personal safety and hunting weapons? Otherwise, once again I point out and I'm saying, we're witnessing that hunting associations, that hunting alliances are very active, when it's necessary for all the unwanted things in our country, and there have been a lot of them in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70748	The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic – Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70749	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the womb, diaspora and dispersion, will allow me, within the right to ask parliamentary questions, and in order to preserve Serbian language, Serbian culture and tradition, to ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, as a single bond and a good sign, an indicator and bridge that unites Serbia. The survival of the Serbian language, Serbian culture, Serbian Cyrillics, is an important sign in the world to preserve our language, our culture and our tradition of all Serbs in Diaspora and dispersion, and to be able to go beyond the teaching they usually attend in the language of the countries in which they are located, to attend an additional teaching where they will be able to learn Serbian. Without the queen's support, I mean the younger generations, it will be difficult to resist the assimilation and preservation of their language, tradition and customs. I believe that our ministries and the Diaspora Office, as well as the Diaspora Committee, will first take a clear picture of the number of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the Diaspora and children who need to attend the course, first countries that are more endangered by the majority people, such as Albania, Hungary and Slovenia, and then countries where more citizens of the Republic of Serbia live. By investing Serbia in the work of additional schools abroad, we give our Diaspora the opportunity to preserve Serbian language, culture and tradition. Special satisfaction should be expressed with the fact that the interest of the diaspora in learning Serbian language is increasing year by year and that Serbia is among the rare countries that finance the work of complementary teaching. The question I ask the Ministry of Culture and Information concerns the adoption of a Regulation on the achievement of educational and probationary work abroad that should improve the quality of teaching and the functioning of complementary schools in order to give their children in the diaspora the same chance of preserving their native language, culture and tradition as their religion? The second question I ask, also the Ministry of Culture and Information, given that the minister of education, Mr. Sarcevic, signed a document together with the minister in Republika Srpska regarding the definition of Serbia-Serbia's co-operation to introduce Serbian language schools in the diaspora, as well as the gathering of as many Serbs in those schools living in the diaspora, aimed at preserving the national identity of the Serbian people. This time, an agreement was made on the signing of the Agreement or the Memorandum, which will precisely define the next steps of Serbia-Serbia's joint accession and joint action towards the diaspora in order to enter into the digitalisation process of teaching in Serbian. Also, the second question I ask the Ministry of Economy, which refers to Serbs in the diaspora, is - when will the rule or document be finally created which will be prescribed and clear investment conditions and changed conditions for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the diaspora, changed the conditions for investing capital in the Republic of Serbia? The Republic of Serbia has never created better conditions thanks to good policy, President Aleksandar Vukic, the extremely good policy led by Minister Dacic, the politics of the grouped coalition of Socialists and Unique Serbia. On this occasion, I really want to invite all Serbs in the diaspora, given that today we are making a very important law and we are discussing elections, an election of censorship, to go to the next election as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70750	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70751	Thank you. It is not often that in one day your country will be taken into its mouth by the leaders of the two most powerful countries in the world. As yesterday, it happened, both Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump mentioned Serbia, they said two different contexts that very well illustrate the difference between the two countries towards Serbia and I would say that from that difference should follow and should imply a different relationship that Serbia will have with these forces. Of course, as a small country, we have to try to be nice to everyone or at least not to mind everyone, but we cannot and must not equate what is equal. Namely, Vladimir Putin, receiving the credentials of foreign ambassadors, including our counterpart Lazanski in the Kremlin, said, quote -- that Russia is pushing for Belgrade and Pristina to reach a mutually acceptable solution to the Kosovo problem based on Resolution 1244. So a mutually acceptable solution to the Kosovo problem based on Resolution 1244. It's the position of Vladimir Putin, and it's something that Russian officials many times, mostly in this similar formulation repeat, and it's something that I don't leave space with different interpretations, and especially with those insinuations that part of the public in Serbia and political and media often spread under a mask or under a firm, the more, how Russia lets us out a series of water, how the Russians lift from us, and so on. When it comes to principled matters, whatever you think about something else, Russia's attitude does not change and it is principled by international law and by the Republic of Serbia when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and other issues of territorial integrity and sovereignty. On the same day, he arrives in Belgrade via the US ambassador, congratulations to our President for Statehood Day, where President Trump, means congratulations and, among other things, mentions the need for good relations and mentions the priority on the path of Serbia's European integration, means, support for Serbia's European integration, and I quote again, normalising relations with Kosovo should remain the priority on the EU integration path. So normalising relations with Kosovo is a priority, which is something that even in the Statehood Day Chest is not just any occasion, but something that usually avoids controversial things or debateable things, is mentioned in Kosovo and normalising relations with Kosovo. It is understood that this is thought of Kosovo as an independent state, besides Matthew Palmer, the US President's special envoy for the region has repeatedly explicitly confirmed it. So they want mutual recognition and normalisation of relations and mutual recognition of Serbia and Kosovo. So, you can clearly see that, as in the mirror, as in the scanner, the difference between these two countries' policies towards Serbia, and therefore my question goes to the address of the Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic and the Foreign Ministry -- are they aware of these differences? Do they see that difference in the relations of the great forces towards us and whether their policy, our policy, our state policy of water, bearing in mind these differences. To avoid remaining a place of doubt, again as much as you already mentioned Matthew Palmer yesterday, in a conversation with Montenegrin Parliament President Brajovic did not save words to praise Montenegro and you at the moment noting that Montenegro, as a multinational and multi-confessional state, is now, I quote, the most successful story in the region and offers any support in promoting democratic values, therefore, of course, a contribution to reducing tensions, dialogue, against a dangerous disinformation and propaganda campaign under Montenegro's Law on freedom of religion. So, not very explicit, but you make it quite clear, Matthew Palemer has sided with the Montenegrin regime, praises the regime, and even indirectly stands aside in this dispute over the controversial Law of Freedom of Religion, a law against which half of the full-aged citizens or thirds of them protest every day or twice a week in the streets and squares of Montenegro. In that light...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70752	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70753	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few days ago, exactly six days ago, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime announced that there were no grounds and doubts that Alexander and Andrej Vukic were in any contact or communication with a certain Predrag Koluvija, the owner of the agricultural goods "Jovanica", who was arrested in police action. The same statement also states that there are no grounds and doubts that Alexander and Andrej Vukic were involved in helping or in any other way in the criminal act that is burdening Koluvija. Also, the same statement states that the prosecution found that there were no grounds and doubts that Alexander and Andrej Vukic committed any crime for which prosecution was committed under official duty. I'm going to read another piece of the D.A.'s statement, which all the media have passed on. Namely, the report on the collection of data from mobile telephone devices and the sim cards taken from the blamed Colombia, made up of the Office for Special Research Methods of the Ministry of Interior of Serbia by the acquisition of memory content, as well as the content of all installed applications for communication via the Internet, suggests that no contact with Alexander and Andrej Vukić was established, nor that the communications reached on 13 and 14 November 2019, via a mobile network or internet application, can be brought in any way in connection with Alexander and Andrej Vukic. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I bringing all this up? Because we had a months-long brutal campaign of lies and inventions on this subject, which was launched from Gilas's lie factory, which some also call the Alliance for Serbia, so we were literally bombed every day by this affair via N1 television and some other votes by the Alliance for Serbia - "Time", NIN, "Today" and other printed media. So, it was conferences, shows, round tables, experts, guests, analysts and 300 miracles every day on N1 television, and when it came to this call affair, and now it turns out what we've been saying all these weeks, that it's about the simple lies of that Miroslav Aleksic, Bosko Obradovic and the other Gilas mercenaries, and it's definitely officially confirmed. There are a few questions: will anyone take responsibility for all this, will we get an apology for all this, will any of them say – sorry, Wolf, for lying about you and your family for months? Will he apologize to the citizens of Serbia for this? He won't. Of course they won't, as they've never apologized for similar lies. He's not going to apologize because tomorrow he's going to come up with a new lie, but tomorrow he's going to be making a new affair against someone from the SNS because that's how they operate, because it's the only way they operate. So they make up some lie here in the National Assembly. There's that Miroslav Aleksic, and now he's in the hall of the National Assembly, they're constructing an affair, then for days and weeks they've been spinning over the N1 and the rest of their media, and then, when they find out that they were all just lies, they come up with a new lie to push away the old lie, to forget the old lie and so on in the circle. This was the case when they invented new and new lies every day, so they denied all domestic but foreign institutions and the Ukrainian embassy and the Russian Foreign Ministry, etc. That's how it was when Marinika Tepic was baffled when she claimed that a marijuana was grown on the military's good "Morovic" and then turned out to be chickens. That's the way it is with everyone else... (President: Thank you, you've exceeded your time.) )......................................................................................................... The Alliance for Serbia's attempts to construct affairs against someone from the SNS, because they don't have a programme, have no political idea, have no policy to defeat Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70754	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Vladimir Marinkovic, Zarko Obradovic and Borisav Kovacevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a session of the 20nd extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, called at the request of 155 MPs, have been sent to you to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 20nd extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was submitted by 103 MPs to the Serbian Progressive Party; 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the selection of Members of the People, which was submitted by the MP Gordana Komic; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, submitted by 103 MPs to the Serbian Progressive Party and 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Elections, submitted by MP Gordana Comic. National MP Maja Gojkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint review of the proposed agenda points. Now I have to ask myself if I'm going to explain that request and give myself my word. Since there have been a lot of questions as to why these four items of the agenda are combined, my opinion is that all four points of the proposed agenda contain the same matter and refer to electoral legislation. In January, we received a group of proposals relating to the reduction of the electoral censorship for the lists and the second group of laws relating to the change in the percentage of the less-represented gender. For the first time in our country's multi-party system, the possibility opens up to unite the debate on the bill proposals supported by the ruling majority MPs and MPs of the opposition party and, thirdly, not less important, because it is important that this assembly of parliament is slowly ending with a message that in Parliament we can be equal and equal in all, regardless of whether we agree or differ in some political views and we should learn to discuss each other's proposals, especially if they are in the interest of the promotion and democratic atmosphere and the general election process this time. So I ask you to support this request of mine and that in the coming time we discuss together all four draft laws. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted – 13 MPs. I find that we have accepted this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm sorry, I skipped a proposal. Representative of the Liberal Democratic Party Group – The League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina – SDA Sandzak, Parliament MP Olena Papuga, proposed that the time of debate for parliamentary groups be 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – 139 of the Messengers of the people. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word in the order of the MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled search on: a draft law amending the Law on the Elections of the People's MPs, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, the draft law amending the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was passed by MP Gordana Comic, the Bill on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group and by the draft law amending the Law on Local Elections, which was passed by the MP Gordana Comic. Do the promoters, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Gordana Komic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70755	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SNS Group has tabled two draft laws, which are: the draft law amending the Law on the selection of MPs and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. Both billings have the same essence. The essence is in the idea of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic to further strengthen parliament's role in the political life of the Republic of Serbia and that parliament, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will be a place where all actors of political life will present their ideas, their views on the internal and external policies of the Republic of Serbia. So, to do this here in the National Assembly, as the only representative political body of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not on the street, to cultivate our political life, to stop looking at each other's mortal enemies, but only political opponents, or people who don't think the same thing, and to finally stop being a matter of life and death in Serbia, rather than being what is in all developed democratic countries, which is the fight of ideas, the game of those who participate in political life, and the people is to choose who will lead it in the appropriate time. In that sense, the SNS parliamentary group will, of course, vote in favour of both draft laws because we support the position of the President of the Republic which has so far made an extremely much effort to preserve peace and stability in the Republic of Serbia, but also to preserve peace and stability in the Western Balkans region, above all in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, by keeping one responsible, wise and sound state policy. As we want peace in our environment, so do peace in the Republic of Serbia. We don't want to talk to motor saws, we don't want to talk in a language that implies that we have to rape the Prime Minister, we don't want to talk in the language of physical violence. So these are all arguments that SNS absolutely does not accept when it comes to political life. We want an advanced, exemplary, cultural and civilized political system. We don't have to think the same, but we don't have to and we can't hate each other. Since both draft laws have one essence, I will point out what this essence is about. First of all, SNS and its president believe that the censorship for the election of MPs, as well as the censorship for the election of councils in municipalities and city assemblies, should be lowered from 5% to 3%. Secondly, what we want to achieve with these bill proposals is to affirm the role of national minorities in creating a democratic environment in the Republic of Serbia. We want to strengthen, to encourage national minorities to go to elections in the Republic of Serbia, because by going to elections in the Republic of Serbia they thus show that they see Serbia as their own country. At the same time, what we want to avoid is that elections abuse the fact that one political party is only a formal party of the national minority, which is essentially not. So we want to avoid showing up at the elections under the fake company of the national minority party, the fake Hungarians, the fake Slovaks, the false Vlasi, and we are all witnesses that this was in political life. Why is it important to reduce the censorship from five to three percent? First of all, because we are thus deepening the proportionality of our electoral system, we allow the political visibility of those who would not be politically visible, who would not enter the National Assembly, who would not join the local self-government units if the censorship remained at a level of five percent. So we are thus further strengthening the proportionality of our electoral system and this is another step forward towards establishing that political system in the Republic of Serbia that implies that everything, but indeed everything, about all ideas, about all proposals, is being talked about exclusively in the National Assembly, not on the street, because we have had a bitter experience in the political life of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the political life of the former Yugoslavia when politics is led on the street. Whenever politics is run on the street, the state is at a loss. We want politics to be conducted in institutions, and above all in the National Assembly as the most important and central political institution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, when the census descends from five to three percent, the strongest loss is the strongest political party. At this point, it's SNS. What I'm saying is, first of all, because of the citizens who are following this transmission, there were a lot of those who didn't initially understand President Vukic's idea of census coming down to three percent because mathematically observed when you have a three-percent censorship, then you can count on you to get less mandates, since Dont's electoral system, or Dont's formula to recalculate the fallen votes in the number of mandates, means that all those voices that have been given to parties or coalitions of parties or groups of citizens who haven't crossed the censorship, go first and foremost to that party who won the most votes, which is SNS and 2012 and 2016. So, mathematically observed by the adoption of this SNS bill will be at a loss, but as President Aleksandar Vukic said, for us politics is not mathematics, for us politics is a struggle for state and national interests, a struggle for us to have a stable and orderly political system. Every time we put on that sauce of party and state interests, we chose state interests, and I think it was Alexander Vukic and SNS that they brought something new into the political life of the Republic of Serbia. So far, those in power have always taken care of the interests of their political party. Aleksandar Vukic is the first who is and is therefore not an ordinary politician, but we can say freely, a statesman who said, "It doesn't matter if my political party is going to be at a loss, it will win Serbia." How will Serbia win? By having peace in Serbia, by not threatening each other with hanging, by not threatening each other with rape, by us politicians fighting each other, not with children, not with mothers, not with fathers, not with family members, as has been being led for years, primarily against Alexander Vukic and his family members. So that's how we actually restore political culture in the Republic of Serbia. As for the participation of national minority parties, Serbia is, I think, the most liberal state in Europe when it comes to national minority parties and their right to participate in our country's political life. Two days ago, a public hearing was held in the organisation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, related to the draft laws tabled by the SNS parliamentary group and the draft laws tabled by distinguished counterpart Gordana Comic. This is what I want to say without wanting anyone to misread me and without wanting to shine in any way the political atmosphere in Serbia, and this is especially about the attitude towards the parties of national minorities. In fact, Mr Tomislav Zigmanov said that, as a representative of the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina, Serbia has one electoral system that is unfavourable for national minorities and that it is a better electoral system that exists in the Republic of Croatia. That's when I said I couldn't agree with it, not because Tomislav Zigmanov said it, but because it's my deep political and legal conviction. Why is that? In Croatia, a Serb who wants to vote for the Serbian party has two boxes ahead. One is a box for, I say, classic political parties, for parties, conditionally said, majority people, such as HDZ and SDP, and next to it stands a box for the parties of national minorities. And now imagine a Serb in Zagreb, in Vukovar, in Karlovac, Split who comes to the polling post and wants to vote for the Serbian party, let's say for the strongest Serbian party in Croatia represented and led by Mr. Pupovac. He practically wrote on his forehead that he was a Serb. And what happens in political practice? Many Serbs do not want to be publicly marked as Serbs because it has never been easy to be a Serb in Croatia, and it has not been easy since 1990, and neither has it today, Serbs do not vote for Serbian parties and do not put a ballot in the box written by national minorities, but usually vote for the parties of the majority. Since the 1990s, Serbs in Croatia have known this by Professor Marko Atlagic, mostly voting for the SDP, thinking that the Social Democratic Party of Croatia is somehow lighter for Serbs than Tudjman's HDZ. In any case, we do not face such a phenomenon in Serbia. So in Serbia, there is one box in every polling post, and in that box their ballot is inserted into both Serbs, and Croats, and Hungarians, and Bosniaks, and Albanians, and Bulgarians, and Slovaks and all others living in the Republic of Serbia, as completely equal citizens. So, there aren't two boxes, there's no way to know in advance who you voted for, there's no pre-marking whether you're a Serb or a member of a national minority. In that sense, I also think the SNS parliamentary group has this view that it is better for national minorities to do what we have as an electoral system in the Republic of Serbia than what the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia is, with all due respect to that country and the fact that it is an EU member country. In this public hearing, and I would like to say, the opposition very often, or part of the opposition criticises the SNS that we are discussing draft laws without public hearing and without public debate. It is important for Serbian citizens to say, the SNS has been taking part in a debate on political system reform since last summer. Gilas called his Alliance for Serbia, namely his political organisation "One of the Five Million" by deliberately distorting the words of Aleksandar Vukic. Aleksandar Vukic said – I will not kneel under your pressures and blackmails just that there are five million of you on the streets of Belgrade, but he said at the same time – I am absolutely ready for me and my party to talk about everything that you think is important, as regards electoral legislation in the Republic of Serbia. If you don't want to talk to me, talk to Maya Gojkovic. If you do not want to talk to Maja Gojkovic, talk to our MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown absolute readiness to talk, to hear what it is that needs to be fixed in our electoral system to make it even better. To be clear, there is no ideal political system, there is no political system that could not suffer a certain reform and a certain change in its element. When a wise ancient philosopher and statesman of Thessaloniki asked which constitutional arrangement was best, he said – first tell me for which people and for what time? So there is no ideal political system that would be good at any time for every country and for every nation and for every historical opportunity. So, we started talking, if I'm not mistaken, Vlado, in July or August 2019. Part of the opposition, who came to those talks, to those first preliminary talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences, could not believe that SNS representatives were sitting there because they were convinced that Aleksandar Vukic was a man who was not ready to talk to anyone and who was not ready to listen to anyone else's opinion. We patiently went to one, second, third, fifth meeting at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and later in the building across the street, to King Milan, to the old building of the National Assembly and always responded to the invitation of National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, to talk to all of the opposition who want to discuss how to improve our political, or electoral system. In that sense, our conscience is completely clear. Speaking to the opposition, we have shown, not that we are weak, but that we are strong, that we are not afraid of anything, we have accepted almost all the suggestions of the opposition and almost all the suggestions of NGOs dealing with electoral conditions. In December of last year, we passed four laws insisting on opposition people, above all Dragan Gilas, and primarily individual NGOs, to define what public resources are, to ban what they are. A functional campaign to strengthen the role of the Anti-Corruption Agency in monitoring the election process. We've accepted all of this, and we've incorporated it into our electoral laws. Today some ask the question – how is it that you advancers are now proposing to lower the censorship from five to three percent, this is not done in the election year? That is what some who come from the EU say. I have to say that this attitude is unfair, that he's even hypocritical and a little bit rude, because what's the fundamental difference? If you change the legislation relating to the elections in December, and then continue to do so in February, and the elections will be at the end of April, what is the fundamental difference? How democratic was it to pass four laws in December 2019, and it is not democratic to lower the censorship from five to three percent in February 2020? We have not received a relevant answer from either the opposition representative or the representatives of the European Parliament who are taking part in this inter-party dialogue. As regards these two laws, better put forward for these four draft laws, since there are also the proposals for Mrs. Komic's law, we have kept public hearing. All political parties, all parliamentary groups, all NGOs involved in monitoring the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia, were also invited. Some responded, some failed, and our conscience is completely clean. We didn't get around anyone. We've called everyone. Even Dragan Gilas was invited. And Bosko Obradovic was invited. Representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia were also invited. They're all invited. I say, some have responded, some have not. Thank you both. This showed how much they respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how much they respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This public hearing is important because we have been able to hear certain objections and suggestions from our fellow Members of Parliament, but also certain objections and suggestions from individual NGOs on the draft laws we have submitted. I'm glad Mr. Zukorlic is here. We had one debate on how to include national councils of the national minorities in the electoral process, with the aim of avoiding the abuse of the political parties of national minorities in the elections. In fact, we had a situation, especially in 2012 and 2016, that certain political parties represented themselves as parties of national minorities, which they were not. And they were represented as national minorities' parties not to protect the interests of the national minority, which they allegedly represented, I mean Vlahe and the Slovaks, but to present themselves as party national minorities for one reason only -- to enter parliament. This came after the 2012 list, which was called None of the answers offered, including Mr Vukadinovic, who was allegedly the party's Vlach, or party of the national minority's Vlach. And then in 2016, we had a Green Party, if I'm not mistaken, led by Mr. Chabradi, who said it was a party of the Slovak national minority, which was so much a party of the Slovak national minority that the gentleman did not appear here in the National Assembly when the President of the Slovak Parliament came to visit us. In order to prevent such things, while at the same time affirming that authentic parties of national minorities and their coalitions participate in the elections, we have proposed a mechanism which we consider to be essentially good, but we are ready to discuss its further improvement, whether a party is a national minority or not has to declare the relevant national council of the national minority. Without a desire to politicise national councils, but to include them in the electoral process, in order to, on the one hand, prevent abuses, and on the other hand help authentic parties of national minorities to go to elections and compete with other political parties, or their coalitions. Mr Zukorlic said that we prescribe stricter conditions for national minorities than these are conditions that apply to, to say the parties of the majority people. It's not like that. And here we agreed that we were actually thinking the same thing, but that we only had different legal approaches to how to formulate that member of the bill. So we don't prescribe stricter conditions for national minority parties. We are preventing, or trying to prevent abuse. And that's what we've reached consensus about. What has also been said in this public hearing, and this is something that has been repeated for years, which is that no MPs from all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia are represented in the National Assembly. Legally observed, from the point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of constitutional and legal theory, each MP represents the entire people. No MP represents his municipality or his city. In that sense, the Serbian Progressive Party could not accept that kind of argument that we are representatives of municipalities, cities, local communities, certain nations, religions, etc. We are representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is not, I said so in that public hearing, as Svetozar Markovic, a community of municipalities thought. So the state is not a community of municipalities, the state is much more than that. Likewise, MPs are not representatives of their municipalities. It's a relic of that socialist constitutional arrangement. We are representatives of the people here. When I say peoples, then I mean peoples in political, not ethical terms. So, we are representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we are obliged to fight for the interests of these citizens, regardless of what nations, religions, races, gender, what is their birthright, property status, etc. What I want to finish with, and I hope that today we will have one reasoned and good debate on these bill proposals, for us from the SNS, and above all to the President of the Republic and the President of the SNS, after a session that will likely end on Saturday, by voting for these drafts of the law, the conscience will be completely calm and no one will be able to cast any shadow on the elections that will be held in April this year. And that is what was the aim of submitting these draft laws -- that no one, absolutely no one, in the Republic of Serbia or outside the Republic of Serbia, question the legitimacy of the elections. These election laws were preceded by a long and reasoned political debate. We agreed to talk to everyone, we agreed to talk to those who threatened to hang us, who threatened the members of the family of Aleksandr Vukic, who physically kidnapped Maja Gojkovic, we all agreed to talk to each other. We agreed to talk to representatives of the European Parliament, knowing in advance that they have animosity, or one of them, I can say it freely, without any doubt, Mrs Tanja Fajon has animosity towards the Serbian Progressive Party, for ideological reasons, and one part because she comes from a country that was once part of the SFRY and somehow my impression may be wrong, that for her the June 1991 war with JNA in Slovenia is not yet over. It seems to me that she continues to lead him in some other way, criticising absolutely everything that comes as a proposal from the SNS. But it doesn't matter now. What is important is that the April 2020 elections, both parliamentary and rural and local, will be completely legitimate, will be completely clean. And anyone who is fair, above all, to himself, anyone who is fair to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, anyone who is fair to their political parties, must admit that never more democratic election conditions were than those currently envisaged and that never the elections took place in a more fair atmosphere than those that will be held in April this year. I would like to stress that the political system inherited by the SNS in 2012 is a system that was essentially created in 2000. It was created by the DS towards itself and the Law on the Selection of National MPs and the Law on the Financing of Political Activities and the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Local Self-Government. Let me remind you, they raised the censorship from three to five percent when it comes to local elections. We're going back from five to three percent now. Why? Because SNS and DS and the entire opposition led by Dragan Gilas have essentially different policy approaches. They created a political system towards themselves, believing it would be in power forever, and we create it so that it corresponds to the citizens of Serbia. We know in advance that the SNS won't be in power forever. They believed they would rule Serbia forever. It turned out in 2012 that it didn't work out for them. We know we will not rule forever, nor want to rule forever. One who wishes forever that the government is not a Democrats, but it just shows how much we have essentially different political concepts. We don't make laws towards ourselves. We make laws towards the state and its citizens, wanting peace and stability in the Republic of Serbia, wanting peace and stability and when it comes to our neighbours, friends who are members of the national minority. With these electoral laws, we are essentially making any argument that the elections that await us in April 2020 will be illegal, be unfair and in advance reject the argument that the results of these elections are not such that they cannot be accepted. The election results will be absolutely acceptable to everyone, because election laws are created to at least match the SNS, and to everyone else sitting in this hall most corresponds. They also respond to those who do not sit in this hall, who are hypocritically holding press conferences these days, lying about Alexander Vukic and his family members, and will go to elections, only under another firm. Serbian citizens should know that whoever presents himself as a fundamental opposition and as the only real opposition to Alexander Vukic, Dragan Gilas has two firms. One firm does not go to elections, a firm called the Alliance for Serbia. Another company is going to the polls, the company is called "One of the Five Million". There are no citizens of Serbia who essentially believe that the "One of Five Million" organisation is run by three students and two students. Dragan Gilas and Dragan Gilas will go to the polls, but with this other firm. This first firm will be told – we boycott the election. This other firm is likely to participate in the province and local elections. I want to say, precisely because Gordana Comic is here, the only one who is essentially a loser entering that coalition of the Alliance for Serbia is DS. A party that has a reputation, no matter what I think of the party and its rule over two thousand years, a party that has a long political tradition. She's the only one who's been translated thirsty across the water, she's the only one who's ever bothered to prove that a boycott is the best possible solution and she's the only one who won't make the election. Dragan Djilas will go to the elections, and Bosko Obradovic will go to the elections, and Vuk Jeremic will go to the elections and they will all go to elections, except the DS. Of course, it's a question for DS, let them lead inside a party debate whether it's good for them or not. What I want to say at the very end, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the laws it has submitted, because we believe in the vision of Alexander Vukic that Serbia can and should be a normal and decent country in which every man, regardless of his national, religious, racial or political background, will feel at home.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70756	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70757	Thank you. The proposal to amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the local elections I have submitted has in its essence only one intention to make 40 percent of the less represented gender after the next elections wherever people choose for responsible roles. All of us, when we say that, we think that it means 40% less women, that it's not less than 40% women, that it's going to be 60% men. This is the topic of quotas many men and many women say are not necessary, are not natural. My answer is – of course they are not natural. The only natural quota has a mother of nature and she's 50%. But the social rules, the social roles and what society is to know where the woman's place is, have brought together thousands of women over the decades and centuries behind us to fight for their rights, to hear the voice of the woman, to respect the voice of the woman and to decide together on the development of the society in which they live. That's why my proposal is 40% less represented. Why is that so hard? Because there is a huge resistance and a lot of lies about reasons why there are no women in decision-making places, why they are not there where political decisions are made, where financial decisions are made, where decisions important to society are made. We lie to each other, and we say, "No women, which is a lie, because they join parties, and we say, women do not know." Women say, well, we'll learn, it's not a problem. How come you can see us? We're always in politics, we know everything. Well, according to the results, it wouldn't say it all together. Or they say -- they're not women for politics, it's dirty work. So who makes politics a dirty business? They come from aliens and make politics a dirty business. So if you say a sentence that women don't want to go into politics because politics is a dirty job, and most of it is men, so who's dirty? Why does it take a quota to come clean up some of what's dirty? Why do you need 40% of women everywhere after the next election? Because there is no development in Serbia if the attitude, argument, idea, opinion, proposal on how Serbia should look years ahead of us, is not also expressed in women's voices. What do we need to make that happen? We need men like most. There is no decision that has been made so that it has profoundly changed social relations, that it has deeply cut into stereotypes in society without men saying – come on, this is not bad, let's adopt it and accept it. And that's about motive whenever I submitted any proposal in the Serbian Parliament, whether I did the ruling majority or the opposition. When you're an opposition, all you have to do is be right, and the government is responsible, that what's good for everything really happens in society. And the outcome that these two proposals are 40% of women in the future where anything in Serbia is being decided has started by thinking it's the right thing to do. That it's the right thing to fight for 40%, that the right thing to do is to repay those who before us fought for smaller quotas for all the women who fought for the right to vote. I can be right as an opposition as much as I want, but in order for the debate on this law, the vote on it, the debate on amendments to take place, it is the decision of the National Assembly president and that is her decision made, with the agreement of the president of Serbia, the ruling parties, but it is her decision. I stress that because that's how every law, every regulation, always. Why is the outcome of this session's agenda the electoral law proposed by the 3% SNS parliamentary group and my proposals that require 40% of women at all decision-making sites? Because we didn't want a dialogue. This 3% reduction law would not have been without any dialogue, boycott, if it hadn't been for the streets, if it hadn't been for bitter and ugly words, instead of the election conditions dialogue a year, two, three, five, there wouldn't have been all the draft laws that the ruling majority introduced to the assembly since July of the month in some form of agreement with the participation of the EU. There is no time when I will give up fighting for Serbia to enter the EU as a full member. It doesn't exist. (Vojislav Seselj: Ih! Part of that struggle, all the MPs who win – them, I can tell you just watch me. Just look at me! And those of them, and those of them, eh. Europe is a civilization imperative of our society. Europe is a necessary condition for our development and Europe has come to talk as a mediator between the authorities and the opposition. You know, when it happens in families where you worry a lot about moms and grandmothers, they tell you -- that you're not ashamed, that you can't sit down on your own to make a deal. In addition, I am giving full support to anyone who will invest any energy in dialogue between the authorities and the opposition within any group. Because this agenda is also a dialogue area. He wouldn't be if I didn't deeply believe it was the right thing to do when I saw the Law on the Selection of People's MPs enter, that it was the right thing to ask for 40% for women. That's just right. It's part of my long political struggle. I can have ethical dilemmas about what will happen when I do, but it is my personal thing, I am not important in the whole dilemma about how dialogue to normal institutions, how dialogue to less injustice for women in society and how dialogue to the European face of Serbia, because 40% of women are something that Europe understands. I'm free of my will for dialogue if the President of the Assembly doesn't make a decision and he doesn't understand that it's good for everyone. Not many women in parliament are the only topics I'd like to be working on. It is also the protection of the environment, it is every interpartial dialogue on inherited problems such as the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, it is every dialogue on what and how to change the Constitution of Serbia, it is every dialogue on small, small injustices that people in Serbia are experiencing, which we often intend not to see. Hence, this is my explanation why I think it is good that the proposal is put on the agenda and that it is good for 40% of women in Serbia to vote. There could be various interpretations of how this happened. Everyone can have their own interpretation, but not everyone can have their facts. It is my duty and duty to share with you the facts about my motives and my position on what is right to do when the law is already passed on amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs or local self-government, and the answer to the ruling majority is the content of this agenda. Why do we know this, and we haven't known any other things recently, and will we be left with the discussion of a provision that reduces the price for elections and provisions that increase women's participation, will we be left with the idea that it's better? The assessment in politics is that only when you do things, and you don't have to, you produce serious, progressive steps of society. She didn't have to put this agenda together. I didn't have to apply for 40% of women on lists either, but the idea you can see in modern history is that in politics you don't have to do things, that you're doing really root, profound changes over which you can then build your own society again. I'm just going to give you one graphic example. Willie Brant didn't have to kneel. By kneeling, he made history. She'd go through that visit without his kneeling. We don't have to do all this that we're talking about, but we can produce great consequences for dialogue, for the space of dialogue in society, for the discussion in which women listen to what men say, for men listen to what women say, in which we understand that the necessity of our dialogue is the necessity of respecting women in politics, in finance, in business, everywhere, that this is what drives society forward and hence my proposal to be at least 40% of the gender represented in the future. That means the least women in the congregation after these elections. It also means a hundred men if he's smart, because he's less of a sex person. If I know that we've started since three or five percent of the early 1990s, if I've been involved in every institutional political, dialogueal fight together with the civil sector, with people of knowledge with the academy, to argue something as natural as that -- open space for women in politics, they have the right to do that, the natural right. So I listened to various arguments why it should never happen. I don't want to hear arguments again why it shouldn't be 40% of women. But, okay, and it's part of the dialogue to repeat our own argument no matter what we see that it doesn't hold water, we need 50% of the women. Why is it important that you do things that you don't have to do? In response to the basic proposal for the text of the law, amendments have emerged that only improve the text of the law and dialogue has started. These amendments don't have to be accepted, but it would be wise, it would be good, it would be useful for the party presidents to understand that it's good to do what you don't have to do because it has a common benefit for women in the parties that the amendments propose and the wave of men who decide on these amendments. Why is it even more important that the outcome of accepting my bill happened? Because whenever we talk about needing more women in politics, the most common answer is – not now, not the time. I ask – when is the time? Don't have more important things now, don't talk about it now. It doesn't have to either, but it's being chosen because we don't want dialogue, about how small injustices women in Serbia live every day. What can we do to correct these little injustices? We're a society with a heavy historical burden and a heavy legacy and we don't understand how much we need common energy, whoever power, opposition, influential, smart, media, academy, actor, whatever it takes to short the time to solve the historical heritage and burden we carry ourselves and not understand how selfish we are if we don't do it now, but we're going to leave the generation that comes with the same package of problems we have. I don't agree to that when it comes to women. My entire political struggle was based on the fact that I know that, like other women today in the 21st century, it stands on the shoulders of nameless women who have been killed for decades, killed, killed, fought so that we could be born in the 20th century and have the rights that belong to us by nature, and we only have them when they are written in Declaration 1948. The UN, when they're written down in women's rights as human rights, only then do we really have them. This part of our joint job is my decision to prepare my shoulders for those who come, that the next generation of politicians in Serbia don't understand you to tell her – the quota, because by nature things are men and women at 50% in every place where they decide. (National Ambassador Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. People's MPs earn too much again. You know, if I could really decide, my amendment would read - there can't be more than 30% of the men in politics. (Vojislav Seselj: I agree. Enough waves, enough. But it's just for jokes and comics. If I knew there was a willingness in society, I wouldn't give up what I think is natural, and that's the parity of the whole thing. 50% of women and 50% of men. I would really like to understand that the decision to be at least 40% of women means full democratisation of parties. It means a lot to all of us who know exactly how much difficulty inside the party you have the right to listen to you with the attention and seriously anyone, and you know for sure that you're talking to an argument, that you're telling the truth, that you're talking about the future, that you're talking about it, that you're talking about it. It's in all parties like that, in all of one party. And, right now, it is because it is necessary to discuss and negotiate the demands and proposals of various parliamentary groups how to make the law I propose and improve. I have a personal call for all party presidents, think and do the right thing, just because you don't have to. It can bring a lot of good to your work, both good to men and women. (Vojislav Seselj: You're not near the end, are you? To the end... People's MPs are anxious to finish, just watch me. Just look at me and listen. I thank the president. It's a nasty thing to do, but it can't, so what are you gonna do? My last request. I said, he's naughty and he can't. Unbelievable. I said, he's naughty, and he can't, I guess he'll learn. (Vojislav Seselj: No one has so mildly used my expression in the last ten years. I see. The great injustices, which we have as a society and we know them all and we feel them all, the injustice of the 1990s and the consequence of all the wars of the 1990s. The injustice over the slow but insidious dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, the injustice about the terrible things we've been through over NATO bombings, the sanctions, the injustice of being willing to deny reality, but to talk about it. These are great injustices. And a more mature society would have a problem dealing with this seriously, but having 40% of women is, correcting a little injustice. Maybe the idea we share here on good reasons, why it takes 40% of the women on the lists to help solve the great injustices. The great injustices are successfully crowned by correcting the lesser injustices, or you seem to be less unjust, if you are not a woman who suffers injustice all day long, every day, who suffers violence, who suffers debauchery, who suffers all sorts of injustices, because society tells her – so should be. You don't have to. No one should suffer injustice. And this assembly will be one in a series that will reduce that injustice that seems to women. The 2010 Assembly also amended the election law that is now in force. Two calls before him, is also unfortunately an amendment to the optional quota on the presence of women on the lists. With huge co-operation, assistance, support, a campaign that both women and men had in Serbia, in institutions, we at least changed Serbia in this part. My proposal is for this call - let's let the presidents of the parties hear what MP groups are proposing. Let's remember that this session has been called up and my proposal on the agenda, because it didn't have to and let's remember that there will always be us who will defend what's right and we don't have to. Much simpler, not having an ethical dilemma about whether to represent DS policy here, which is the presence of women in politics in decision-making places, wherever you look, you will find someone yellow who helped to have more women's human rights, more human rights, or I will represent the party's decision that there is no conversation in this assembly and that work is boycotted. I decided how I decided, and I would do it again. (Vojislav Seselj: E, good for you. ) And I ask you to remind your presidents that they too can decide and that it is indeed a holiday of democracy for Serbia and a day of joy for women of Serbia on Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70758	Thank you. We're moving on to authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. He has a word, People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as early as 2004, the SRS publicly advocated a reduction in the censorship of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. We have thus pared the proposal to introduce a forced censorship for minorities, whether national or religious. We had principled reasons when a forced censorship was introduced for someone, he said about discrimination. Some are willing to view this type of discrimination as positive discrimination. I don't think discrimination can be positive and negative. She's always negative. So this is how we wanted to reduce the censorship, to enable at least the largest minorities living in Serbia, these are Hungarians, Bosniaks, or Muslims and Slovaks and possibly Bulgarians, and perhaps some others if they win the censorship that they can be represented in the National Assembly. We're not going to challenge the natural censorship right now. We are generally against it, but in the present situation it is important that minority representatives be in the National Assembly. So we're not going to challenge him right now, but we're basically against him. This time, the ruling party proposes to reduce the censorship to 3% and it has its reasons. We must admit that she is doing this in principle at her own expense when it comes to the number of parliamentary mandates. They will share less after the elections are over and when votes are added to those who have not passed the censorship. It's a waste. However, the front of the rejection believes it is their maneuver, to reduce the effects of the boycott. Well, maybe it is. I believe it is, but it's democratic. All those who are against the boycott have the right to democratic means of countering the boycott and reducing the effects of the boycott. We'll lead the propaganda to go to the polls, and we'll push for the Assembly to be as representative as possible. There was a proposal that the census be 1% or that it was just natural censorship, that wouldn't be right, because there's a lot of work in political theory on censorship. Once the census was property, once the census was classy and so forth, full, once the women had no right to vote. In this case, the census is needed to avoid being exaggerated in the number of parties. So, the Assembly works effectively if it has a moderate number of parties. The problem of the real party leading the current policy, such as the Progressive Party, which always has a dozen, fifteen small, marginal parties on its list, and like Santa, shares their mandates. It is their right, but we must when we are the new Rules of Procedure bring in that the MP group can only form an electoral list. That list, which was in the elections, past the censorship, was common of three percent, whether the minority, has the right to form a parliamentary group. Those sada parties, which went on other people's back, stay nice in both the parliamentary group and the majority party. You're causing us problems here, they're acting like they've won the census themselves and they have the same rights and offices and the number of employees and everything else, so that should be removed. Whoever goes to the elections together, form a parliamentary group and performs in the Assembly, and the money they get from the state, let the majority party deploy on its own initiative, now that 3% of the census is then no one else and has the moral right to attach themselves to someone, then everyone needs to try themselves on their own, it would be principled, and one who can't even stand down at least for a while. As for Gordana Komic's proposal, we already have an obligation that every list has 33% of women, or minority sex in political life, sometimes it can happen in the case of men, and we kind of find it convenient to make lists of candidates, to go one, two, and then a third woman, well four, five, and then six women, etc. It's very simple. Now it's proposed to be 10, at least four. So, among the top 10, how well I understood four women, among the other 10, four women, among the third 10, four women. I'm basically half, half, I'd like to be the only man in the congregation and everything around me women, to tell you the truth, and if there's nothing I can do for years, but I like to be in their society. Don't be rude, Marianne. So, I'm not a woman's hater and I'm not against women's participation in political harvest, and we've worked before when there was no such obligation we had the most women in the parliamentary group in both the Republic and the Federal Assembly. You have to admit that. Yeah. But where are the problems? We won't have that kind of problem at the republican level. We'll have the most trouble at the local level. There are times when it is really hard to provide enough women who want to be on the list and who want to deal with politics to a certain extent. It's hard. This is the state of Serbian society today. I wish he could, but I would suggest something else instead of what Mrs. Comic suggested. Why are we bypassing executive power? Why don't we change the Government Act and say, a third of the government members have to be women or 40%? Why only MPs, as MPs, is something secondary, insignificant, so come on, women can. Then give the government a third of women, so let's see, give it to the executive. Come out with such a proposal and we will support it with both hands. Furthermore, we have problems trading with mandates. Each party had this problem, except for the radicals and we had a problem, but when we threatened in a nasty, horrible way we threatened him, he returned his mandate. It's about Mark Milenkovic, who sold the election and left the party. He had to get his mandate back. We must refresh the constitutional principle that the MP is able to put his mandate at the disposal of the irrevocable political party whose proposal he was elected to. He has suggestions that we go to the majority system. We used to have a majority system, so the Socialist was 192 in the Assembly. What would happen now if we had a majority system in the current power ratio? It would be five, six Hungarians, two, three Muslims, one or two Albanians, perhaps one Slovak, perhaps one Bulgarian, but hardly anything else would be advanced. There'd be almost 240 advances. You know, people don't think, people think they're smart and they come up with all kinds of ideas that have already been tried, that have been tested in political science and that are denied. One of the few countries that has a clean majority system is Great Britain. They've been stalking it. In parliament, they have a parliamentary whip, it's one of the MPs who puts them in line. He has very, very broad powers. All countries have moved to proportional ones, and why? Because then the electoral lists show up, they are not as important names as the programme and those directly representing the programme. It doesn't have to be a whole parliamentary group, it can be two, three leading people within the group to be, but it's known, behind that program, it's so much and so much a percentage. What does that mean now? You ran over the Constitution, you in the previous term, and the advancers continued. If the Constitution says one thing, you've changed the law, and you say the MP has a mandate, like his grandmother's. Instead of covering his ears, being embarrassed to steal your mandate, you don't have Shormaza here, that's your example, it was Sanda Raskovic Ivić, then she from the Socialists, and there were some others, and this chobanov was changing the party, the Marinika Chobanov, and there were 15 more, any of them had changed the party. Then what does that mean? They say then – they are the owners of the mandate. Most immoral people, with no honor and no cheek. Careful, the party is investing hugely in their mandate to win that mandate, a large number of party activists are sweating working in the campaign, huge money is spent to win the mandate and then they say, they are the owners of the mandate. There is also a modern Serbian party, with Canka in the coalition, that has become a cankolist. So these are the things that are insufferable, so the rule needs to be introduced, an MP who stops being a member of the political party, on whose list he is elected, automatically remains without a parliamentary mandate, waiting for the next election, to run on his own or on another list, to see how much the people love him. We had situations that some parties were held in power, thanks to stolen mandates. It was the case of the 1990s, with socialists, several years, and with DS, and don't thank the DS anymore, the Democrats came from radical apostates, these are historical facts. In the early 20th century, they seceded from the radical party Nikola Pashita, certain people who declared themselves free of radicals or independent radicals, standalones, and Ljuba Davidovic and Milan Grol formed DS after World War I. If they were good, the rest of them would be radicals. They wouldn't play some Democrats. As far as Serbian radicals are concerned, we have introduced women's right to vote first in political life in Serbian countries. The Kingdom of Serbia had no, even in one period it had an asset censorship. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia had no female right to vote. For the first time, the founder of the SRS in Ugarska, Jasa Tomic, introduced a woman's right to vote in calling the Grand National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians who joined the group of Hungarians in Novi Sad in 1918, 25 November, right, Natasa? Natasha serves me to remember numbers, she's an expert, and I'm getting weaker in memory of numbers. (President: That's why women matter. That's why women are important, and they've always been important in our party. And there were seven women in the National Assembly, for the first time in Serbian countries was Milica Tomic, she was the wife of Jasa Tomic and the daughter of Svetozar Miletic. There was also Anastasija Manojlović, Marija Jovanovic, Olga Stankovic, Katica Rajčić, Manda Sudarević, and Manda was Bunjeka, as much as my memory serves. And then, in Yugoslavia, there's no woman's right to vote. The communists pretended to introduce a woman's right to vote, but they suspended the election. What looked like the election was horse racing from the same ergel, so whoever you vote for is the same. We had the first democratic elections in Yugoslavia in 1990, and then that woman's right to vote was confirmed, but there was a lot of... (Marian Risticevic: There was a female party. There was one female party but failed in the election. She was a party of successful women, I think, Margit Savin led, but failed in the election. So my suggestion is that we stay on this one-third, not to cause trouble at the bar right now, because it's a big job to put together local candidates and controllers on a local level, and then the next time we make the changes, we go half-and-a-half. The most principile is half, half. Half the women, but also in the executive government, so to be, both in the government, and in the municipal authorities, or these municipal councils, as it is called. So, to be in both branches of government, both executive and legislative, and in the judiciary, I think we already have maybe more women than men, which is not bad. There's one danger. If we play with this full representation, we'll have an initiative, maybe even under a certain ultimatum on the outside, to set a certain quota for the representatives of incompletely undefined sexes, so they can tell us a certain percentage of homosexuals, lesbians, bipolars and transvestites, did I count it all? Not to say what with animals in general. Milorad Mircic: Sexual minorities. ) This is already considered in Western Europe by sexual minorities. So if we set things up like this, then they'll say they're a minority and they have these rights and that they can show up as a minority party in the election and ask for natural censorship. That's why this is dangerous when you introduce so-called. positive discrimination. When we made this electoral law, which was done by Serbian radicals, it was made by Zoran Krasic with my instructions, and then we offered Djindjic, with me were Djindjic and Ceda Jovanovic, there, Jovanovic was a witness, and Aleksandar Vukic, I suggested, I told him - we did a project for the next election. He looked, he said: Are you behind it? I'm standing. I don't want to look, I agree. Be careful, though we were mortal enemies, he had confidence that it would be done properly and done. It's broken down later. It is corrupted by the introduction of a natural censorship, and then by trampling the Constitution and introducing this definition that the mandate is the property of MPs, it is directly contrary to the Constitution. Why do you do that? There's no need. When you get into a situation where you keep the government by kidnapping other people's mandates, you know that you've failed, that it's only temporary, there's nothing to do with it. The Socialists regretted it, and we wouldn't have even entered the coalition in 1998 if there hadn't been a riot in Kosovo, no one would have made us. For six months, Milosevic called me and offered a coalition, negotiated parallelly with Draskovic. Draskovic was constantly trading something, constantly new requirements. However, when it started in Kosovo, Milosevic and I agreed within the hour and another two hours with Mirko Marijanovic were due to form a cabinet. It's a historical fact, many know it, you're gone, Maja Gojkovic knows it, and you, Marianne, know who told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70760	Time. It's been 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70761	Here, I'm done. So this is a serious thing. We will vote to amend the law, or reduce this censorship to three percent. We ask that the rule on minority parties be strictly implemented, even every minority party should have the name of a minority party, as soon as possible, to determine that this RIK is to check whether there are at least two-thirds of the minority on the party list and that should be introduced, because what a minority party has a minority name for you, and all members of the majority people, as we had with various Russian parties, for example, or what Vukadinovic did with the Vlach party, and they still mock him about it, it will remain for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70762	You've spent a minute more.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70763	Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70764	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70765	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and local elections, submitted by MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group. I will not talk about Mrs Comic's proposal because at this point it is not clear what will be the position on this bill and since it has not been unequivocally determined whether this proposed solution results in more women following the next elections, i.e. the adoption of the bill. There's only one sentence I'd like to say on purpose. We now have a solution that among every three candidates should be one representative or representative of the less represented sex. If such a bill is adopted that every 10 should be at least four, 40%, then it can produce a situation for women to be from six to ten, which means that we may not achieve the effect we want to have. There will be discussions in particular, amendments have been submitted and we do not know whether the proposal will be modified. For this reason, I do not want to go into details, nor to declare how we will vote on this bill, or these draft laws. As far as these other two draft laws are concerned, they concern two major topics. The first topic is to reduce the censorship from five to three percent. Another major topic is the criteria for determining the position of the electoral list of national minority political parties. As far as the first topic, i.e. the reduction in censorships, we support this from the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, although this provision does not directly apply to us because we are a party of national minorities and to the parties of national minorities is referred to as the so-called natural threshold. Nevertheless, we support this proposed solution for both the republican and local elections, because this will lead to better representation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in representative bodies both at the local and the Republic Assembly. The proportional system is usually more appropriate in heterogeneous societies, better than the majority system, and if it decreases, reduces the censorship to 3%, resulting in more parties entering the representative bodies. As a result, there is a smaller number of so-called. rejected votes and therefore citizens are better represented, represented, and therefore we believe that this is a good solution. Speaking of which, I'd like to say that there is one aspect of the reduction in censorship that few politicians have thought about, as regards the aspect of the political parties of national minorities. As I said earlier, for the political parties of the national minorities, the so-called system. a natural threshold, the essence of which is that national minority parties participate in the allocation of the mandate and, if they have received less than 5% of the votes and regardless of what is not so called in the law, we call it a natural threshold system. But what's the point? If the census is 5%, then it has a larger number of so-called. rejected votes, votes by those parties that have failed to jump that threshold of 5% at the moment. These voices do not go into that set of votes that are divided by the number of seats in the representative body and because of that when you lower the censors then it is necessary to correct the so-called. the natural threshold, because otherwise it could happen that the censorship of all others is reduced, reduced, and that the parties of national minorities need even more votes to win one term than was the case when the censorship was generally 5%. In this regard, I would like to say that this system of natural thresholds was introduced into our election legislation in 2004. In 2008, an initiative appeared before the Constitutional Court, with the provision of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was challenged by article 81 from the position of the constitutionality. The initiator at the Constitutional Court claimed that the system of the natural threshold, this kind of positive discrimination serves to create an artificial majority in parliament and that this system changes the electoral will of citizens. The Constitutional Court made its decision on this initiative in 2011 on 14 April and the Constitutional Court took the view that the legislator is Article 100(2). The constitution was given the express order, but also the authority to choose how it would ensure equality and representation of representatives of national minorities in the National Assembly. So, the Constitutional Court has unequivocally come to the conclusion that the system of the natural threshold is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but the Constitutional Court has taken another step further by saying that freedom, privilege, and also the duty of the legislator of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine how members of the national minorities will be represented in the National Assembly, thus ensuring the equality and representation of representatives of national minorities, and this need is prescribed by Article 100(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court said that the legislator is free to decide whether members of national minorities will be in the National Assembly thanks to the system of the natural threshold, or whether it will be guaranteed places or be a third solution. The legislator is free and the legislator can freely choose any of these ways and will be deemed to respect the constitutional provision on the need to ensure equality and representation of representatives of national minorities in the National Assembly. I say so in advance, since I suppose that in the coming days, weeks, months, maybe for years new initiatives and doubts about constitutionality will appear, I hope a new solution to the Law on the selection of MPs, which will be adopted on Saturday in the voting day, because the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians has proposed an amendment to which the system so-called "Advise" would be corrected. The natural threshold and the correction are seen to increase by 35% when the mandate is allocated, by applying the largest factor system. So we absolutely do not question the constitutional principle of equality of vote, so one man, one vote, but in order to achieve that effect for the parties of national minorities, which is achieved for all other parties by reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, we believe that adoption of this solution is necessary. We have held talks on this proposal with both the promoter and the senior SNS officials. We have agreed and I hope that this amendment will be adopted, in the interest of equality of all parties in the election race and this solution applies to both the republican level and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the local level, means the Law on Local Elections. This solution achieves more adequate representation of the political representatives of national minorities and further affirms the constitutional principle of equality and representation of representatives of national minorities. What we're proposing isn't something that doesn't exist in parallel law. The Kingdom of Belgium has a similar solution. Otherwise, Belgium is specific because the country in which a proportional electoral system was first introduced in 1899, and since 1920, this election system has been a constitutional category in Belgium. As regards the second element of the bill, which is the criteria for determining the position of the political party of the national minority, I would like to say that we advocate that national councils of the national minorities have a certain competence in this process because, under the Constitution and the law, the national council of the national minority represents a national minority in certain areas, and in previous years we have witnessed very serious abuses of those solutions from our electoral legislation, which are foreseen for effective participation, guaranteeing effective participation of members of national minorities in public affairs and for equality in the representative body, and also in the National Assembly. In order for this to stand in the way, we believe that the National Council should have a certain competence, because the National Council knows the community it represents in certain topics by nature. Now we can think about whether this should be a decision of the National Council, whether it should be a proposal, whether it should be an opinion, but we agree with the SNS proposal that the National Councils of National Minorities should be involved in this process, so that no parties in the election match that are represented as representatives of certain national minorities, and that nothing in the interests of these national minorities has ever done and have no representatives of that national minority at all in their ranks. I understand the doubts within certain national communities that this solution could lead to very delicate situations within these communities, but I want to say that such a thing in the Hungarian National Community could never happen. The essence of this SNS proposal is not to exclude anyone from the election game who is indeed the political party of the national minority, e.g. Hungarian, rather than the essence of this proposal to stand in the way of the abuses we have seen both in 2012 and in 2014 and 2016 at a republican level, thanks to which abuses and in this Assembly of the National Assembly there are people's MPs who "represent the interests" of some national minorities, and in fact do not do so, but simply as they say so using some of the shortcuts and some of the legal gaps and some of the irregularities in our electoral legislation. To conclude, the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support the SNS Law's proposals on amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and amendments to the Law on Local Elections. I hope that our agreement will achieve the desired common goal of the new electoral system being fully fair to all and that this will be done by accepting the amendments to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. As for the bill, Mrs Gordana Comic, I would like to repeat once again that the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians has been pushing for the greater presence of women in politics since its establishment. We absolutely support the goals, no matter what the proposaler's saying, I say it very honestly, and since we've known each other for a long time, you know that what I've said is true and that's true. I would like to thank you for confirming this position by a consistent action, i.e. by noding your head. We want to wait for what will be the final proposal, whether some amendment will be accepted, but we will certainly support that final solution and the product of that agreement that will allow the proposed goal to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70766	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70767	Thank you, Chairman. I will begin this pre-election session with the quote by Eleanor Roosevelt, who said: “The great minds speak of ideas, the mediocre of events, and the small of men. ” So today I want to talk, first of all, about why SMS with its European bloc partners wants to go to elections and why it is important to have a democratic electoral system that allows fair elections. Modern Serbia's party goes to elections because of ideas, not because we are naive and we think the conditions are good either because of censorship or percentage. The ideas we believe in will be advocated, because we think they are good for Serbia, even if only one citizen supported them. We don't care about the percentages of censorship and ratings, because only ideas are worth it. These are ideas of antifascism, a free market that creates equal opportunities for everyone, social protection and justice, regional reconciliation and peace. Serbia's problems are so great that they cannot be resolved through one mandate or through one election cycle, one boycott or one almighty leader. Their resolution requires much more and that is what Professor Dubravka Stojanovic calls the historical processes of long duration. If someone thinks that after these elections, a Brussels European official will refuse to speak to the Serbian foreign minister, because he will find it illegal because it is part of the government elected by the Assembly, established in the boycotted elections, to boycott the election in the case. If he thinks the boycott will lead to tens of thousands of people going to the streets to follow the well-sighted leaders of the former government and to endure months of elections, then let him boycott the election. We in SMS are deeply convinced that none of these two scenarios will happen, as we are confident that the boycott advocated by the idea that the delegitisation of the elections would legitimise the conquest of the authorities on the street, to slow down European integration, to prevent EU enlargement to the Western Balkans and to create a space to expand to the Western Balkans someone else. That is also why the EU is also against the boycott of the elections. They say often – what do we need the EU and who are they to dictate our electoral conditions and intervene in electoral conditions? If we are willing to look at the truth and reality, then we will conclude that we ourselves cannot make the state, that we are unable to organise neither tax collection nor functional and all available health and education systems. In nearly three decades of multilaterals, we haven't developed an electoral system that is resistant to democracy and corruption and the culprits are all the authorities who could do it, and they didn't want to. Be European integration would be left to our own authorities today. Does anyone really believe that any Serbian government itself would create a truly democratic electoral system? They could have done it three decades ago, and they didn't. Does anyone really believe that any Serbian government would be willing to suspend its own desire for power? We in SMS are confident that no Serbian government is alone willing to give up its influence on the judiciary and force the Anti-Corruption Agency to consistently enforce electoral laws. That is why we advocate the idea of European integration. That is why we believe that this idea must be offered to citizens in the next election, because neither current nor ex-government are its sincere representatives. Because of this idea, we are going to the elections to make it loudly heard in parliament, not to let the authorities speak in Brussels' bureaucracy, Bregzit or skepticism towards enlargement in some European countries. Because, realistically speaking, the way we are, we are unwanted and a high percentage of our own citizens leaving Serbia and no one can deny it. This government prepares and promotes strategies to prevent that phenomenon, admitting that it is mass happening. If we are so unwanted to the high percentage of our citizens, I don't know why we should be more desirable to a Dutchman or a Belgian who should accept the decision of his government to join Serbia? So, there's a problem with us. I will quote Tanja Fajon, co-chair of the joint committee of the Serbian and European parliament, in a part of the author text recently published in the NIN weekly: "The changes are achieved by dialogue, not by boycott of the upcoming elections. Therefore, all parliamentary parties should bear in mind that if Serbia wants to continue its path towards European integration, dialogue in parliament can achieve changes and continue to implement positive reforms. To be legitimate, elections require at least 40% of voters, and people benefit from reforms, should be required by the authorities to implement reforms. "That is why we will go to the elections, because we want to insist from this place that these reforms are being implemented because we believe they are good for the citizens. It is an argument that electoral conditions should not be changed in the year of their maintenance and that is correct. But some electoral conditions, election laws, we have already changed before these upcoming elections, with the intervention, support and consent of the EU, and the truth of the will, we have done so before almost every election in the past 30 years and by the rule of political pressure. This has recently been written by an election law professor, Dr Marijana Pajvancic, and there is nothing to add or deny, except that it must be argued that bad practices must once be suspended. They say whoever goes to the election is in agreement with the authorities. Here, today, we have a law on the agenda that proposes a distinguished fellow MP to the opposition and which proposes one great thing - an increase in the role of women in Serbian politics and in public life. It's not a deal, it's a dialogue. If we do not support dialogue, the alternatives to the dialogue are much worse and harmful for this society. Because the dialogue on the role of a woman in our policy must be conducted and I am glad to be able to realize that women, fellow Members of Parliament in the Serbian Parliament have already taken him through the Women's Parliamentary Network and reached an agreement, regardless of their political status and agreed much faster and easier than men, and that's great. I hope that the proposed solution will be democratically discussed through the upcoming assembly debate, to see if the ideal solution is six and four, or if the solution is two out of five, which is a solution that will truly guarantee that there are no fewer than 40% of women in the Serbian Parliament. We follow, as the Modern Serbian Party, on the social networks of the voters' reaction and see that in the same attitudes, you take them on my side, or from, say, my colleague Tatjana Macure, the comments she gets on those statuses and those attitudes, I don't know how to characterize them except to say that they are below every level of elemental decency. Unfortunately, these comments today come to a greater extent than opponents of the government and slightly less than supporters of the government. I'll give you some examples-- prostitute, whore, how much Wolfie pays you, I'll get better with you, I'd like to try it first. I'm just asking, do these people have families, mothers, sisters, daughters, and are they ashamed of them? Because we should, in order to improve our own role in our own lives as a woman. I am sure that many MPs from all parliamentary groups and generally women who carry out various demanding professional activities and jobs in our society have been going through similar situations, and here I want to say that the culture of public speech and mutual treatment comes from Parliament as well as from non-culture. And these are the ideas we want to fight for, and that's why we're going to the election. In terms of the proposed reduction of census, it is mathematically clear what it means to lower the census from five to three percent and it is the only mathematical fact and precision. Everything else is interpretations. A number of electoral lists are being reduced by census to the position of the censorship crossing and entering parliament. This can lead to greater pluralism, better representation of voters' positions in parliament and a better conversion of votes to mandates. It will, of course, reduce the number of votes that are scattered under the census and poured over by some other parties, above all, the larger ones, above all, the authorities. They're mathematical facts. Everything else is political interpretations and imaginations. For the discussion in particular, I will leave many other issues of our electoral system and its fairness and many inconsistencies discussed by the Serbian public. Why does the public advocate MPs who cannot be disciplined, while wanting the mandates to belong to the parties and not to the MPs? Why does the public advocate the election of MPs and not party lists, while wanting the mandates to belong to the parties and not to the MPs? Does the idea that MPs rather than parties and party lists may be elected by the public might mean a majority electoral system with 250-single electoral units? Does the public know that, in political theory, such an electoral system is co-located -- the winner takes everything, because it gets the largest disproportionately large majority and disproportionately large supremacy, which is not based on real percentage voter support? How can we change the electoral system and achieve a more direct link between MPs and voters, and how can we really increase the direct responsibility of MPs to the citizens who chose them? How can we change the electoral system and achieve better territorial representation, and why should we not change the age, professional and any other, that this parliament is to the fullest extent depicting the real state of Serbian society? How, really? And how can we sanction both MPs and parties who, after entering the mandate, fully deviate from the policies that they have run in the pre-election campaign for voters, and instead of pro-European liberal democratic principles, begin to represent anti-vaccinal theories and theories that the Earth is a flat panel? How do you sanction such organizations? And how can we generally achieve a reputation for this home in which, as the board here next to me says, once sat our esteemed Nobel laureate, Ivo Andric? That should be our goal, because as I said, the culture of public speech goes out of parliament, just as well as the culture. That is why I call on all truly pro-European-defined organisations to join us in these elections and together to represent together the ideas of European, modern, liberal democracies loudly in this House, because these ideas are worth this struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70768	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70769	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we discussed election laws almost two months ago concerning changes, or improvements to the electoral process today, when we discuss amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs and the Law on Local Elections, I can only rely on my previous discussion when we talked about election laws. I said at the time that the SDPS seven years ago made several proposals concerning the improvement of the electoral process, and one of these proposals was the descent of the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%. However, we have also proposed a step-in censorship for coalitions that would be within the mixed electoral system. We will remain consistent, of course, and we will support a proposal that implies that in the Republic Assembly and in the local self-government assemblies of those parties who win a minimum of 3% of the votes have their own representatives. There's a lot of reasons for that, and I'll list a few. First, although it has been three decades since the multi-party system was restored in Serbia, and there have been various theories, the fact is that our political scene has been tomised and that fact should be respected. In the 1990s, many policy theorists have said that our system is best to be bipartisan, that it will eventually be used in such a way as in the United States and Britain with two dominant parties, but reality has denied it. It has been shown that small parties have survived and are being supported for their political ideas by voters, and we must not ignore that fact. By reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, the will of the people in the Assembly will be better painted, especially considering that our system is proportional to one constituency. Democracy is the most frequent word in our political life, and it is precisely reducing the censorship from 5% to 3% so that it contributes to the democratic functioning of parliament. This way we encourage pluralism. The plot is where the debate is being held, where political parties face their views, face their ideas, talk about the laws, and exactly the reduction of censorship will contribute to Parliament's diversity and that more party representatives have the opportunity to express their political views and to fight for those ideas that make voters vote for them. Each country is trying to bring its electoral system into line with its specificities. I'll give the Cyprus example. In Cyprus, for example, in the redistribution of the mandate, a party who went to the elections on its own must win 1.8% of voters who voted on the island. In countries surrounding the censorship of 3% is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, and the same condition for entering parliament is both in Spain and Italy. A slightly higher censorship of 4% is in Bulgaria, Slovenia and Sweden. It is significant that this bill's amendment comes from the strongest political party in the Serbian Parliament. It is to be fair and to say that the amendments to this law are such that at least they go to the strongest political parties, simply because we redistribute the mandate by Dont's system. With these changes, fewer parties would be ahead and bigger at a loss. When there was a redistribution of the mandate on the basis of votes received so far, large parties had priority under Dont's system, as the most votes of those parties that did not cross the census have become their mandates. I'll give you an example. Let's say that the price for Serbia's entry in 2014 would have been 3% then three more parties, namely three more lists that took place in the elections. The three lists were then voted by about 510,000 Serbian citizens, and this is not a negligible number of votes. Parliament would certainly be more diverse in these same elections, the number of votes won by parties under the censorship was about 700,000. So, every fifth citizen voted for a political party that had no representative in parliament. In fact, 20% of citizens were denied being represented in parliament. Not someone, but the party they voted for. I will remind you that the situation was similar in the December 2003 elections when 15% of voters in Serbia gave their trust to the parties that remained below the 5% censorship. For SDPS, the most important thing is to create a stable system that will restore citizens' confidence in the electoral process, but also to establish a political system that will, on the one hand, respect the will of citizens and the real power of political parties. When they decide who they will vote for, citizens are often questioned and assessed the strength of the party representing ideas that coincide with their views. When citizens estimate that the party cannot cross the censorship, in this case, which is worth 5% of us, they often or opt to vote for another party that represents approximately similar views or does not go to elections at all. It was one of the faults, one of the 5% lacks of censorship. Proposed amendments and additions to the law give the political entities a chance at the locals as well. First of all, I think of those political entities, local parties and local movements dealing exclusively with issues relating to the city and the municipality in which they appear, which do not have such developed infrastructure and do not have that potential as large parties, and often the 5% threshold is unattainable. We do not need to speculate on the motives for amending this law, but we need to approach this issue rationally and assess which solution is best in line with our political tradition. This is one of the most important amendments to the law relating to the electoral process and will certainly change the picture in many ways in parliament. That's why I don't think the descent of the censorship from 5% to 3% can have a negative impact on the change of game rules ahead of the election. It would affect negatively if it were to rise from 5% to 7% or 10%, I say as an example. This time it's a reverse process, this time it's a chance for more political entities to cross the electoral censorship and, most importantly, less votes will be scattered. We have been working for nearly three decades to improve electoral conditions and the overall electoral process, and when we go back we will see that the election system at the time, or the election process, is very different from the one we have now. It's a natural process, and it's normal to question ourselves from time to time, to look for the best model, to look for a model that will best paint the will of the voters, or a model based on which political institutions will function best. These amendments and amendments to the laws can be applied already in the next spring elections, but it is important that they are one long-term solution. We will likely, after the elections, have many good proposals that are the same in order to improve the electoral process, and it is important that our system, i.e. the political system, works better. With these changes, we continue to edit the electoral process, promote human rights, civil and political freedoms, contribute to building a democratic and open society that recognises diversity and recognises the right to free political expression. That is why we need to have one quality discussion, to reach a consensus on these issues in order to implement a long-term and comprehensive reform of the electoral process that should result from the dialogue of parties represented in parliament. In this way, we will only strengthen citizens' confidence in all those institutions that participate in the electoral process in an indirect or direct way. Also, the change in the law applies to the alignment of deadlines for campaigning for local and republican elections, and I also support this proposal because a minimum campaign of 45 days will now be prescribed from the election day for both local and republican elections, and this is particularly important because it reduces the time limit by 15 days and meets the deadlines, which in this case is that the republican and local elections are held at the same time. I will also remind you that at the end of last year we adopted amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the Law on the financing of political activities and the Law on Public Enterprises. By adopting these four laws, we will prevent abuses from taking place in the use of public resources during the election campaign, too, I will remind that the government has formed a working group to improve the electoral process, RIK has reached a number of conclusions that also have positive effects, citing some of them. For example, the voter records will now be scanned immediately after the vote is completed, published on the RIK site and will be visible and accessible to all. Training for members of the permanent, or potential members of the permanent electoral assembly is also under way, and this is another step forward that promotes the electoral process. Also, voters will be able to see whether or not they voted after the end of the election, removing any doubt about regularity during the election day itself. This way, from the ruling coalition, we show willingness and responsibility. We are prepared to amend the laws in order to improve the functioning of the electoral system in the long term. Amendments and additions to the law also include changes in that section relating to lists which appear in the elections as national minorities and which are to be crossed so-called. the natural threshold to enter local parliaments or the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. So far, the law stipulates that the political party of the national minority is the one that the electoral commission has established is its primary objective of representing and representing the interests of the national minority and whose aim is to protect and improve the rights of members of the national minority in accordance with international standards. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of abuse in the past in this area. It happened that in the environments where certain national minorities do not live, lists of these national minorities appear to make it easier to enter local parliaments, and there have been cases of this happening at the level of the Republic. I, out of respect for those national minorities, or for the majority who adhere to the law, will not mention what lists they were. The most important thing is that through one quality discussion, we listen to all the proposals and find the most optimal solution, where these abuses will be contained in the future. On the agenda are amendments to the laws that provide for 40% of seats for members of the less-represented sex to be guaranteed on the lists for MPs and committees. It is clear that the intention to increase women's participation in political life in this way, and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has a positive view of the issue. After all, our 10-man parliamentary group, of the 10 members, also at the beginning of this Assembly and now almost at the end of the Council, had four women in its composition. It is important to encourage women to deal more actively with politics, because in our area women have been out of political events for decades and I think that this way society has been at a loss, because good and quality people, quality experts have been far from where decisions are made. The moment we break our prejudices and have those beliefs that speak about equal participation of women and men in politics, there will be no need for us to have a law that sets out a minimum of guaranteed seats for members of the less-represented gender on the lists. It is therefore important that we open the door to everyone so that they can deal with politics and that as such, as the most capable, the most qualified people, they are in the places that are the most responsible. I will remind you that after the 2016 elections, Serbia out of 190 states, by the number of MPs in the Assembly is in a 27-seat position. The Prime Minister is a woman, as well as the president of the Assembly, as well as the governor of the NBS and it is encouraging, especially if we know that the percentage of women who made up the first call of parliament when the multilateral system was restored in 1990 was 1.6%, and at that time there were only four women of 250 MPs. Although the number of women in local self - administrations who are councils in the congregations of cities and municipalities has also increased, it is evident that there are fewer women at those levels, at lower levels of executive authority where decisions are made. We are tasked with achieving democracy in full capacity. We are working on equal participation between women and men in political and public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70770	Thank you. Do any of the other authorized come forward for a word at this part of the session? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70771	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, firstly to warn citizens who are inclined to believe Bosca Ljotic, Gilas multimillionaire and Solak, who draw the strings, do not elect representatives and the ruling majority and power only those who go to the elections. People's MPs, councilors, MPs in the province's parliament are also elected by those who do not go to the elections. With their failure to leave, they give the right to make some lists more or less representative than the boycott does not exist. So, all those who want to boycott the election, participate in the election, and thanks to their boycott, a picture will be created that might not be if the boycott was gone. I'm obliged to warn you. We, and I say a long time ago, have no dispute with the opposition or with the opposition. We have a row with one business worth 2.6 billion. This business is a business called United Group, United Media, Media Direct, which you can certainly tie to Dragan Gilas and their unregistered channels. So today we have a phenomenon that no registered parties, listen, not registered parties, talk about the boycott of the election on unregistered media. Not registered parties in unregistered media in Serbia talk about the boycott of the vote. One television station has now become not only registered television, but also not a registered political party that actively preachs a boycott, and all to get out of Telecom 15m euros for its television channel that no one is watching. It's a spokesman for Solak and Gilas's business. That business has joined, and I dare say Tanya Fajon. So she directly represents her thesis, I don't know how many REM members, etc. Through allegedly taking care of the citizens of Serbia, Tanja Fajon actually takes care of one or two citizens first, because I don't know, Dragan Solak seems to be not a citizen of Serbia at all, or a citizen. So, he's Swiss, Maltese or I don't know what he is anymore, first of all he's a rich guy. Rich people are always thirsty, like they drink seawater. The more money they have, the more thirsty they are. That's what we need to know. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Tanja Fajon says – it is not right to take down the censorship by 5% and in Slovenia 4%. In all former Yugoslav republics, the censorship is less than 5%. Montenegro 3%, BiH 3%, Macedonia has no censorship, and it says -- there is no objection, it has only objections to Serbia. He says it's not right to remove the censorship below 5%. Did she ever start politics? We are speaking here today mostly in the Serbian Parliament. But what about local parliaments, what about the province's parliament, what about the chance we have to give to young leaders who need to start with local self-government, who can't get into the republican parliament right now, who need to explore the trade somewhere, like we did, I don't know from local communities, local self-government and so on? Today, if we remove the censorship to 3%, they can go to the polls, educate the list, go to the polls and influence as young local leaders on local policies and therefore make a common list in some of the next elections, which, as a significant, thanks to the 3% censorship, will enter the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the province parliament and transfer its experiences and positive energy to this parliament. Someone doesn't like it. I understand if Dragan Solak sells his business for 2.6 billion "BC partners", then imagine how much that money is. If, in this unfortunate Yugoslavia, Ćosic, who is financed by, a drug cartel from Albania, if he preaches freedom of the media, and silences when someone announces that they will ban other media, because they do not like editorial policy, that the owners and editors will be arrested, they have a very serious impact on the elections, on the electoral opportunities in the Republic of Serbia, while leading to an unregistered political party, not registered televisions that are becoming an unregistered political party, and they want to influence Serbia's elections. I ask you – can we, TV stations from Serbia, install as unregistered in Paris, London, Skopje, Tirana and broadcast the programme during the election campaign and influence their election? I think those TVs would be banned very quickly. I say Alexander Wolf is too lenient. I, as democratically-oriented, would never allow it. As far as the weaker sex is concerned, it's mostly about women. Maybe one day it'll be men. Imagine the small local self-government, how difficult it is to find one third of the moody weaker sex, the weaker the half represented to participate in the elections. That's where we have to take the religious element. It is not easy for some parties of national minorities to put one-third of the committee or representatives into a parliament because of religion. But I'm worried. If we let women make 40% women, if we let that happen, I'm worried. Knowing some MPs who changed and the name, the nation, I fear that Djordje Vukadinovic will not change the sex. So that's where these surgeons are going to have a nearby office, like the Pope, you know. So you don't cheat on someone, come here to some chair, fictitious and what now? So there's a question and constitutionality. All men are equal. What if I now ask 40% of the MPs to be from the village, because they make up 40% of the population. What if someone asks that 30% of the MPs be the ones with primary school or 10%, or 8% to be functionally illiterate because they have it in proportion to the population? So, if anyone wants to, in my opinion, they can have 100% women and 100% men. I am witnessing that what Seselj was saying, that radicals had a large number of women before Covic proposed this provision in 2004, because of the choice to be clear, in Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo, because he hoped that other nationalities would be able to participate in the elections, because they would be harder to find women who would participate in the elections. That was the argument of Nebojsa Covic, as I recall. That was the first time that provision was introduced. I welcome that there be one third of the weaker gender, but don't go too far, I said what it can lead us to in Serbia, because there are some people who are neither state nor morals, and maybe there won't be half of it tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and just this, I demand for national minorities, and I spoke to Tanya Fajon and at these gatherings, I ask that we be careful about the national minorities. Those rights must not be violated. No one has the right to steal the national identity of the national minorities. That's what their rights are all about. So I ask Tanja Fajon, what are the rights of Serbs in the elections in Slovenia? Do they have a natural threshold? They don't. They have no rights, no national minority rights, no rights that have some national Roma groups, etc. They're completely discriminated against. But I welcome national minorities to be represented in parliament, but not to steal their right, because by stealing that right not only we commit fraud, it is a great injustice against national minorities who lose the right to represent the national interests of that national group here with their representatives. I ask that national councils, as a rapper, take all candidates and bearers of the minority list, to be included in the voter list to be applied in the elections for national councils of national minorities, because it is only fair that candidates who wish to represent national minorities should be included in the voter list and appropriate national minorities. No identity theft, no fraud, no abuse, and we're all clean. And the majority can vote, it's not at all disputed, that for some reason it's made known to some member of the national minority that's on that list, it's a neighbor's friend, godfathers, those who have him politically. It's not at all questionable to be on it. Finally, those who boycott the elections, who want to boycott, I must warn the citizens, all who go to the elections go to defend the state of Serbia and build. Those who don't go to the election, they defend School, Gilas, their Falcons and millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70772	I didn't understand anything about women. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70773	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, I would like in this debate on election laws to refer to something that no one here has mentioned so far and is not subject to practically electoral law, and according to the LSV, this should have been the subject of a long-standing amendment to this law. The proposed amendments to the law have not touched the key problem of the existing law, which is that Serbia is one electoral unit. So far, no one, not the previous or current authorities, has put this topic on the agenda, that is, the law has not been changed in that sense, and we believe that this is exactly where the problem lies in our entire electoral system. I remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines the right for citizens to choose and be elected and that the electoral right enjoys legal protection under the law. This is Article 52. The Constitution. Also, citizens have the right to participate in public affairs management and to enter public services and public functions under equal conditions, again Article 53. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution has allowed the legislator to regulate an electoral system that will, to the greatest extent possible, allow citizens to be represented in such a way as to contribute to the achievement of their needs and interests and better and better quality of life. So in all things, in the focus of everything, is actually the voter i.e. A citizen who needs to exercise his rights. In line with the Law on the Selection of MPs in Article 4, MPs are required to be elected in the Republic of Serbia, as one electoral unit based on a list of political parties, party coalitions, other political organisations, a list proposed by a group of citizens. The application of such a solution from this law has shown great shortcomings in practice, and one of the most serious is that not all parts of Serbia are evenly represented. We from LSV, as regional parties, have felt this directly for years ago, because we are practically tied to the region of the Vojvodine and the question of crossing the census, when it comes to the republican level, we must always go to some coalitions because, realistically, our coverage is directed to the province of Vojvodina and that law as it now directly affects us. So we have a situation to share the voters of the city of Belgrade, let's say the total number of voters is about 22%, and the number of Belgrade lawmakers in the National Assembly is about 88/89, which is about 36% of the total number of MPs. Years back in Serbia, there is a situation that the south of Serbia, for example, has a disproportionately small number of MPs in relation to the number of voters, regardless of their territoriality, which is where MPs always represent or represent their parties more or less, rather than the region and those voters who chose them. It's one of the anomalies. The best way to overcome this lack of electoral system. We in LSV believe that Serbia should be divided into electoral units, even during the 1990s for those who do not know, Serbia has divided into electoral units so that there are reasons for one even division that would respect the specificities of all parts of Serbia, which is to introduce a division into five electoral units in Serbia. Our proposal, for example, is for the AP Vojvodina to be one electoral unit, the city of Belgrade another, Central Serbia would be divided into the eastern and western constituency, and the fifth would belong to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not have a residence in the territory of the four constituencies. The characteristics of this existing electoral system are therefore that citizens can freely vote in it, but they cannot choose, so that they are largely at risk of the constitutional principle of direct elections. They are divided into five electoral units to a much greater extent, respecting the voter's will and at the same time strengthening the representativeness of the National Assembly. The introduction of five electoral units would create a more regular allocation of mandates, and thus a more credible representation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly would remove any shortcomings in the current solution in which some parts of the territory are much better represented in the National Assembly than others, thus removing the possibility of violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in a work relating to the directness of electoral rights. To compare, I will list the electoral system in some European countries. Someone here mentioned compared to America, we kind of like to compare with America alone. We have much better examples in the nearby area. For example, in Portugal election units are educated on the basis of the county, as a form of territorial organisation. In Denmark, the regional principle of representation is represented in the formation of constituencies, as well as in the distribution of so-called “election units”. additional mandates. The borders of the electoral units are shaped according to the areas of former countys, and even specific asymmetry in representation is provided for the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. It means that every region belonging to a particular country is taken into account that it has its own representative, i.e. its representative in the legislative authority. Then, if examples of two-home parliaments are taken, the federal states have also included a regional principle when choosing a home representing citizens. In Austria, for example, when selecting a national major electoral unit, they are educated so that the area in which they spread must be corresponded to the division of the state into federal units. The regional principle applies in the education of election units in federal units and in the distribution of mandates, the regional principle is its place. So again, the need arises for each region to have its representatives in the right way, i.e. its own teams. In Germany, which we also often take as examples, in the election of Bundestag as a home representing citizens, election units for the selection of half or more members of this House who are elected from the electoral lists according to the proportional system are formed for each of the federal units. Then, the parliament of the Netherlands is two-domestic and makes it first and second-largest. The MPs of the second council shall be elected directly and represented by the citizens, and the MPs of the first council shall represent the provinces and shall be directly elected, and the election shall be entrusted to the province's councils. So again they ask the regions, or locals from which individual MPs come. Specially interesting are examples of Spain and Italy, these countries often stand out as examples of regional states in Europe. The Spanish Parliament is a two-domean and is made up of Congress and Senate. The Prime Constitution of the Spanish Senate is home to territorial representation. So the name is already saying something. The basic principle in selecting senators is equal representation of each province in the Senate. During the election of MPs to the congress, which the citizens' presidency is also taking care of the regional principle. In addition to this direct representation of the region in the central government's legislative body in comparative constitutional practice, there are other forms of regional participation and in the pursuit of tasks within the central government's competence domain. The participation of the region in central government affairs is also ensured by different regional consultation procedures in certain issues which are in central government jurisdiction and decided by central authorities, but which are significant for regional status. Just for respecting the specificity of each region. In certain areas, countries may make decisions or take certain measures only with the prior agreement of the region when making decisions that have an impact on the competence and interests of the region. This applies in particular to decisions concerning the financing of the region or the scope of its legislative competences. This is exactly where I get the point of this whole story. In the case of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, if you remember somewhere in March of last year, only the three MPs from the LSV defended this law, or we tried to pass this law here in this House. Unfortunately, there was no understanding and there was no hearing of such a thing, and it was from all this that I stated that this law that was not adopted did not respect the needs of a region, in this case, the AP Vojvodina. There is a complete lack of respect for what is in the region, which is the vital interests of the region, and besides that of certain competences from individual domains, or in certain laws, are slowly abolished one by one and not respecting, I say, the specificities of the region. The exact opposite of all that I have cited so far and as regards other countries' experiences in respect and implementation of what the needs of citizens from individual regions are. That is why we believe that the amendments to the laws aside from these amendments that are now on the agenda, which is the reduction of the censorship and the issue of national minorities, had had to cover these changes, not only the issue of censorship and national minorities, because these changes, namely the division of the Republic of Serbia, would have given far better representativeness and would have been really represented citizens, not just the principle of what party wishes are, and as we know most of the parties are based in Belgrade. The second law I want to comment on is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Proposal for a Law on Local Elections, which was submitted by MP Gordana Comic, refers to 40% of the less represented gender on election lists, or 40% of women. I am particularly pleased to be able to support such a law on behalf of LSV, and above all a woman, a member of the LSV Women's Forum. We've given amendments to this law. Of course, we support him. We have made amendments to this law, and they aim only to define this proposal more clearly, in order to avoid different interpretations, but our support is unreserved. We all remember very well how difficult it was to get to the quotas of 30% of women's representation on election lists, although women make up about 52% of Serbia's population. I will remind you that equality between women and men is the basic principle laid down by the basic constitutional provisions of Article 15, which says – the Constitution prescribes the obligation to run an equal opportunities policy so that the principle guarantee of gender equality can be achieved effectively. So, in official documents, above all in the Constitution, we have clearly determined that the principle of equality must be respected. Practice is something else. As early as 2017, a draft law on gender equality was drawn up and its adoption cannot be welcomed, as from that drama about Gjekna, without seeing that light of day, there are always some obstructions. From what we know off the record, it's sticking right around the odds. Why is everyone so afraid that the presence of women is 40 percent or that God forbid we ask it to be 1:1, I don't understand. There were some comments here that I wouldn't talk about. On the other hand, women are victims of violence, these are often topics in our media, and this is then said about women, although in 2013 we adopted the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, then we have the government's body responsible for coordinating state administration affairs in the field of gender equality, which is established in accordance with the Convention, etc. We could be sorting out a series of acts and other conventions that we've easily signed and accepted, so we've got everything and we've got nothing. If we had more women in decision-making places, we would have long passed a law on financial support for families with children, encouraging women to have more children, strengthening families and giving children a better future. From the position of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I can freely say that the concepts that most often come to this committee are about the adoption of the Law, or the issues relating to when a law on financial support for the family with children will be passed. That's what women, first of all, torture, because they most often address, let's just say, they're the cries of women to finally solve this problem and to support their families in that way. On the one hand, it can't be said that even women are small and judgmental, that women are spoiled and that they won't give birth to anything like that, and on the other hand, no institutional mechanisms will help women to strengthen them, and, above all, financial reinforcements would help them to cope better in life. If women had decided long ago they would have invested more resources in protecting the environment, which is usually the area I deal with most often and would have put order into this area, we wouldn't have talked for days about air pollution and some kind of short-term measures like the cyri-bu, now we're going to solve a problem that we haven't solved in years and where we haven't invested in years. Believe me, women have wondered, and if women have decided in this situation, that's where we'd be focusing more resources, not on other needs, like buying weapons and so on. As a state, we have supported the objectives of sustainable development, where we promise that by 2030 we will achieve gender equality and strengthen all women and girls, without discrimination, eliminate violence against women and implement reforms to get equal rights, to economic resources, to property, and to be paid in jobs, not to be unemployed, etc. The adoption of this bill by Col. Komic, I think that we would be far closer to fulfilling the promises made and therefore I call on all MPs to accept this bill by Col. Komic, and above all from colleagues from the Women's Parliamentary Network. One remark, I was distracted by it, or maybe it was my smallness at the beginning when she started talking, a large number of just colleagues left the gym and I don't know why, whether they were suddenly in a hurry to get out or even for a moment it looked like a boycott, we'll see at the end when the vote is what it would look like. But first of all, I urge the members of the Women's Parliamentary Network to support this proposal unreservedly, because it depends on what a further relationship will be to women, or to the participation of women in public life, in politics and in all other segments of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70774	The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70775	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would agree with the findings of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the beginning of today's assembly session, that we are all equal in Parliament, regardless of the various political views and that this also confirms today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Also, I can't agree, there were more words today about what kind of electoral system we should have in Serbia, comparisons have been made with different countries. I don't think we should compare ourselves to anyone, I think we should look at what political reality is in Serbia and make conclusions and decisions accordingly. The Socialist Party of Serbia, I would like to say at the very beginning, so when we started in the talks and at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and in the inter-party dialogue, it was very clear that we are ready to talk about everything we can about to advance the existing processes in Serbia, when it comes to election conditions on election legislation, but that we are not ready to have that kind of conversation on the street, but in parliament, where the dialogue is being conducted, and that it was perfectly natural and logical for us to accept a part of the opposition in March of last year the call of the National Assembly President of the Republic of Slovenia, and to discuss all this between the other and the EU report, on suggestions and proposals contained in the EU Report, and in particular the work of the National Assembly, we are talking about how we can implement this in order to advance parliamentaryism in Serbia and to advance parliamentary dialogue. We did, of course, whatever part of the opposition did not participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is the highest body of the legislative authority, but besides that of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is the voice of the people, the place where we legitimately elected representatives of citizens, just as we are today, are discussing alternatives to how to reach the most qualitative legal solutions that will be in the best interests of citizens. And therefore, when you make a request, some kind of a condition, and you know that it concerns legislative activity, and in doing so, you bypass the fundamental role of Parliament, as the highest legislative body, you are, to say the least, violating the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's session is an indication of the willingness to discuss proposals coming from opposition lines, if these proposals are going towards the realisation of the goal that we all want to achieve together. Otherwise, I want to remind you that in the past seven years, this ruling coalition has not changed any electoral law, nothing about election conditions, except the law relating to funding political activities, but it was in a period of austerity, when it was completely logical and rational, saving where there is, because you can't save where there is no and when the funds are reduced to political parties, but it falls again on the burden of political parties, which have the most MPs in the republican parliament, starting with SNS, SRS, SPS, and so on. Since the opposition's unanimous stance at one point, one part of the opposition, the unanimous position to call early parliamentary elections, we are in a position to have a position or 42 demands or a boycott. Well, for one simple reason, because it was realized that they were unable to be an alternative to the ruling coalition and that they had a problem with the political survival of all gathered together, that they were politically surviving the next election cycle. When we come to talk, Mr Orlic has participated in all the talks, there are no colleagues from the SDPS, and when we come to talk and say - we are ready to listen to all the suggestions, we are ready to listen to all the proposals, we are ready to define together new frameworks, to listen to both the civil sector and the European Parliamentarians and the opposition, so no one from the ruling coalition closes the doors and doesn't say that we don't want to talk. We have the same attitude again, or 42 demands or boycotts. You'll agree, it's not a path that leads to a democratic solution, towards a democratic agreement, it's an ultimatum, but it's not the way normal dialogue and normal conversation are conducted. When it comes to the legal proposals that we are talking about today, they will certainly have the support of the PG SPS, but first of all, what is the essence of the legislative amendments and the addition of the law proposed by the SNS - what is it that is concretely achieved by reducing the electoral censorship, i.e. the censorship threshold from 5% to 3%? Mr Martinovic is absolutely right when he says that we will return life to parliament, that we will have more representative public opinion in parliament, we will have more political parties and political parties and positions and opposition will have to work far more to show their strength, but what is essential, therefore, politics, dialogue, talks will not be held on the streets, politics, dialogue and talks will be held in parliament. Of course, it is not true that the findings that we have heard in the previous months and previous days from the supposed midwives that electoral legislation cannot be changed during the year, such an electoral rule, or such a written rule, does not exist in any law, and I will remind you, on December 13th, we have adopted four laws in this House that directly concern the election. Today, when we need to talk about a law that, probably because of what the SNS has proposed, we have so, the least we can say is an incorrect and unprincipled attitude. The second finding, which is also not true, is that these legal proposals undermine opposition rights. How the opposition rights are violated when you are thus creating the possibility that that part of the opposition political parties that is far below the 5% censorship and has their representatives in parliament. I agree with my SNS colleagues, this proposal is going to harm exactly the SNS, because Dont's method is such that they will probably have fewer mandates after the next election cycle than they would have had if the census remained 5%. But here, let's do a chronology. For example, the current Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed on 9 October 2000, and the elections were called on 25 October, on 23 December. Is that the same election year? Was that done in the same election year? Then, on 25 May 2003, the Constitutional Court abolished the fact of Article 88(1) and (9) relating to the ownership of the mandate, since then the owner of the mandate was a national MP, not a political party, and then the SPS, among other things, ran out of seven parliamentary mandates, and extraordinary elections for MPs were held in December 2003. Is that during the same election year? Further, on 25 May 2011, amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs were adopted, and regular parliamentary elections were held on 6 May 2012. Is that in election year? The amendments to the Law on Local Elections were then adopted in July 2011, and the next local elections were held in 2012. Is that the same election year again? Thus, such a rule and such practice and finding does not stand and is absolutely incorrect. Why does one part of the opposition criticise this legal proposal? We think it's for two reasons. The first reason – the boycott – has definitely failed. The second reason -- the scenario that probably wanted to be realized after the boycott has failed, which is to cause chaos in Serbia, to go to early parliamentary elections. Unfortunately for them, there will be no extraordinary parliamentary elections. Serbia is entering regular election cycles that the SPS has always advocated, consistently advocated. We'll have intensity, continuity and stability, which is extremely important. Serbia will get a government that will have huge trust and support for citizens, who will be guaranteed political stability and will not, as we could hear during, correct me, Mr. Orlic if I am wrong, but I think we have a proposal for some pre-election government or transitional government. There is no reason for Serbia to have any transitional or pre-election government because it was an opportunity to reach power and privilege without choice. So Serbia will have the government as its citizens. What I want to say when it comes to the work of national minorities, so we agree, we need to affirm the role of national minorities in Serbia's political life, prevent abuses that under a fake company represent members of different national minorities, and we have several models and suggestions, several models or suggestions that we simply discuss, and maybe we need to think about. The first is that without the role of the National Councils of National Minorities and respecting data from the Register of Political Parties, namely, RIK would approach differently in case we have a list of the political party of national minorities, if it were relevant to the Register of Political Parties, while compared to the electoral lists of the coalition of national minorities RIK would leave room for it to appreciate whether there are conditions. Second proposal. If it were to remain in the position that national councils of national minorities take part in the electoral process and respecting data from the RIC political party registers would be different in case we have a list of national minority political parties, where it would be relevant to the Register of Political Parties, while against the electoral lists of RIK political parties, based on the opinion of the National Council of National Minorities where it is applicable and where it considers it necessary to decide whether there are conditions. Third proposal. If it were to remain in the position that the National Council of National Minorities participates in the electoral process and that the data from the Political Party Registers are not respected, in which case it would remain a proposed solution with the difference between national councils of national minorities giving an opinion instead of issuing a certificate, but that is something that, as far as I remember, is something that was also an issue, among other things, the Council of Europe. When it comes to legal proposals, distinguished colleague Gordana Komic, I would like to say, of course, that the SPS Parliament Club will support these legislative proposals. Otherwise, the SPS parliamentary club still has close to 50% of the less-represented gender, we look forward to it. We hope our esteemed colleagues will be more. And, of course, we support the proposal, we support the initiative launched by the Women's Parliamentary Network. A few words about something that is not the subject of today's changes, but simply, we think that are important issues and that's something we've been talking about over the past few months. In fact, we believe that at the beginning of the next one, perhaps the mandate should be considered in the direction of how to resolve one, in our personal opinion, key and important question, which is how to prevent the post-election parliamentary mandate from being subject to political trade. Except that it is a violation of the electoral will of citizens is related directly to political stability, and political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress by Serbia. Very often, the question arises as to what is older - is the ownership of the voter's mandate or will? So at this point, we in parliament have 14 parliamentary groups, 22 independent MPs, I think that's the first time. And when I say -- I don't know how many political parties, because we have more political parties that didn't participate in the republic's elections, and they have representatives in parliament. Just before the presidential elections, I think lastly, we didn't even know how many parliamentary groups, because we weren't in a position to see if any of the colleagues or colleagues who had previously changed two or three parliamentary groups had changed and the fourth or fifth parliamentary groups. And I think some of the opposition's colleagues were surprised when they went into the O.R. and realized they didn't have an MP club and they weren't the heads of that MP club. So it was enough for you to have money, to buy a party because you have no opportunity to collect signatures in accordance with the law and register a political organisation, to find two or three MPs, you did not participate in parliamentary elections, and today there are two or three different parliamentary groups, you have your MPs. It is something we believe to be a publicist, which was created in 2003 when there were between 250 and 300 MPs in parliament. We believe that this kind of javelin should finally be put to the point. The next thing you know, it's also not about changes, but we think it's important, it's about local self-government. It's an initiative, a proposal, a memo, that's just been sent to us by some local self-government. Namely, since the Law on Local Self-Government has not limited the number of councilors in relation to the electoral body, smaller municipalities have misused that possibility, so they have more councilors, even from cities with hundreds of thousands of voters, which creates serious consequences and violates the regularity of the election. For example, a municipality has about 24,000 voters, and a congregation of 59 council members. Local elections include an indicative of eight parliamentary lists in the municipality so far, which means that each participant must verify 59 times 30, which is 1.770 signatures. So, eight parliamentary lists are due to collect 14,160 signatures, and about 60% of voters, i.e. 14400, which means that all mobile and immovable citizens should be brought to court, i.e. at the notary. The law on local elections provides that local elections, which have fewer than 20,000 voters, determine the local lists when they are supported by 200 voters by their signature. It is necessary that this amendment may also be made so that the lists could be determined by up to 25,000 voters with 200 signatures, thus allowing further regulation of the elections and participation of smaller parties in local elections. What I want to say below and what I am absolutely sure of is that we will have fair and democratic elections in Serbia. During the last inter-party dialogue, a common conclusion and positions and opposition and representatives of the European Parliament was that we had one constructiveity, that we had one progress that was just heading towards a democratic spirit. That the working group of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with all the political parties that participated in the inter-party dialogue, made one qualitative step in terms of improving electoral conditions, that the government of Serbia's working group had one responsible and serious approach, that it was not concerned, that we could hear it from one part of the opposition, banal or declarative, but rather concretely, that one balance was made between respect for the right of position on the one hand and the opposition on the other hand and that today only the malignancies can say that we have worse electoral conditions than those we had in the previous time period. So, it is not good that Serbia's political scene is divided into that part of the political parties who are ready to talk, who are ready to create new frameworks, to improve electoral conditions and that part of the political parties who have seen the talks as a farce since the start of these talks as an opportunity to deceive the public, because they don't care about the elections. The boycott is all they have left. They don't care about the freedom of the media either. The freedom of the media is clearly being passed to be as one of the conditions and reasons why they do not participate in parliamentary elections. Also, it is not good that Serbia's political scene is divided into that part of the political parties that are ready to work in Serbia's interest, in the interests of Serbia's citizens and those who go from the the thesis -- the worse for Serbia, the better for us. We have accepted a conversation with the representatives of the European Parliament, but I want to be clear and open, and we have agreed to talk in parliament, not in hotel lobbys. We have accepted, believing that European parliamentarians will not favour anyone, Serbia will not share the political scene in the likes of the non-supervised and that if the key issue in the European Parliament at this time is the electoral conditions in Serbia, so when they organise talks in Brussels on this topic, do not call on only one part of the opposition, which, while not participating in the inter-party dialogue, let other political parties call on it. Let's put aside representatives of the ruling coalition, but what about the other political parties, representatives of the opposition? It's underestimation and humiliation, because if it were different and if they were representatives of other political parties, you wouldn't hear notorious lies, as they could have heard in Brussels. Let's say, one of these is that we failed to meet more than 60% of ODIR's recommendations, and we respected and implemented all those recommendations resulting from inter-party dialogue. Some are partially realised, but they will be realised within precise and clearly defined deadlines. In the end, I would like to say that neither Tanja Fajon nor any other European parliamentarian has to worry about democracy and freedom of the media in Serbia. Democracy in Serbia is being realised in the elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course, and we have done everything when it comes to electoral conditions that we have fair and democratic elections in Serbia. When I say such a thing, such a statement is not only not clear, but it is politically biased and a little hypocritical, because, let's say, in 2011, we had a report by Verica Barac, where huge concerns were expressed precisely for the freedom of the media, so by chance no European Parliament has found it appropriate to respond to that report, where the need to talk about it today. In the end, I will say once again that the SPS Parliament Club will support all four legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70776	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70777	Thank you. These proposals that have now come are yet specific little because, as it is obvious, they change electoral conditions and have brought a great deal of attention to not so many citizens, I would say, as many political actors in the country as well as abroad. During this public debate, or debate two days ago in the Assembly, I said what I thought about these changes in general, as well as the motives for which they are proposed, and in this respect I have little to add, but this is another. This is the tide, and this is something that the citizens are looking at. So, I think it's clear, or at least it seems to me, no matter how many people say we're not going into motives, which is why this is suggested, that the motivation of the promoter is not irrelevant, but it's not what's crucial when it comes to whether or not changes should be adopted. Right now, if there's no dilemma, I think they're changing in the right direction. I do not think they are enough, but it is to contribute to a certain democratisation and greater representativeness of parliament, i.e., translated and simplified, they will allow fewer votes of those who vote in the elections whose lists and candidates do not cross the census, to be thrown or, often, even worse, to be overrun by the strongest parties, and this is mostly always the ruling party, first of all, and then to remain proportionate to its size. It's already been mentioned by one of his colleagues, but that should be made clear. So, in each election of the last cycles, at least 400,000, and that went up to 700,000 votes, were the voices of those who were actually cast, figuratively speaking, or voices that often went to the control of those who voted did not want to vote, because their lists did not go past the censorship. In this sense, the very measure of reduction is pro-democratic, regardless of what we can think and discuss, what led the government, or the ruling coalition, to come up with these changes right now. I don't like the fact that part of the opposition and part of the public welcome that proposal to the knife. I think it was much more logical to ask that this proposal be complemented, to make it more consistent with an additional one of the amendments that I have tried to propose to the amendment, but which I propose to the authorities, or the ruling majority, to find a way to complement this proposal, either now or in the coming days. What's this about? If we're reducing the censorship by 40%, from five to three percent, then it's logical, at least I think, is the contribution exactly to the democratisation of that electoral process to reduce so much the list of mandatory signatures, i.e. the signatures required to accept that list. It is absurd to reduce this, which clearly shows a one-time motivation to either lure someone to the elections, or, more likely, to facilitate some of the desired lists entering parliament and crossing the censorship, which are estimated to lack enough votes or support to cross this 5% census. If you do not want that impression, then it is logical to reduce 40% of the mandatory signatures, because for smaller actors, even less parties, let alone some others, groups of citizens and other candidates and participants in the elections, it is a real guillotine and it is a real problem, unless they expect the ruling party's support, as the ruling party has often collected signatures for many other parties and for many other lists, and then they get the 10,000. So you cut by 40% and this, which means six thousand for the list in the republican elections. And something that's even more important and more difficult, and some colleagues mentioned, some of the authorities and others, there's an additional problem at the bar. An additional problem arises at the bar because it is predicted that 30 signatures are required per committee candidate. Reduce that by 40%, and then 18 signatures will be required for the councilman. In smaller areas, it is said, a special problem and turns out to be maltene that all full-time citizens of the list should sign. Therefore, this proposal would make the proposal more consistent and would reduce doubts and criticism that it was just some kind of bait that should lead some to go to the elections, which are wavering, or to present the matter as constructive to the international community. I do not accept criticism of these measures, but I believe they are half and not enough to ensure the democraticity of the electoral process. After all, as I said, the state of the media and the state of society, including the state of this parliament, has much more to do with the democraticity of the electoral process than the very height of the censorship. Of course, in many countries this thing varies from case to case. Of course, this is not generally a negative measure for the opposition. But let's not talk about it being some high act of mercy right now, but it's a very tactical thing, and that's why it's being proposed right now. As we are not deluded and we are not deluded, and just now that the proposal of colleague Gordana Comic and her proposal for this 60% quota has been accepted, it is right now that we have entered the procedure and it seems to me with great chances of being accepted, it is also part of that atmosphere or that campaign to present the matter as normal, that parliament normally works, that everything is fine and that democracy is coming back to parliament. It won't be like that. I don't normally have anything against her proposal, and I think it's okay, but I know, and she knows that she has repeatedly proposed such measures, and they've never even come to the agenda, it's not adopted, and now it's not adopted to come to the agenda, but there's a great chance that an increase of the quota to 60% less than the gender represented, in translation it means a woman, to be on the lists. Great. But how did that feeling wake up right now, and that shadow was created? Like this, to reduce the censorship and to split the votes less, and I say, these are the most common opposition voices. It is clear that the measure is basically pro-democratic, but I also think it is clear that motivation is very controversial. As I said, a much more important thing than censorship is what the atmosphere in society is, what is the state of the media and what is the state of parliament. And far from being normal. In that light and context, I just have to look at it for a little while, I don't want to waste my time here, a hundred times the criticism and the attacks that I'm personally mentioned in. Of course we need to have representation of national minorities. But it doesn't say anywhere in the law and it doesn't say that they must be on the national minority list just members of the national minority. That's just not true. And it's not about any abuse. Whether or not a party is a national minority party, it is determined by the competent ministry. Here, now is the proposal and to determine the National Council. I don't mind that, although I see some colleagues have reservations. So, it determines RIK, three degrees, the Republic Election Commission, a ministry registered by the parties. I was neither a member of that party, nor registered, nor a leader, but of course any citizen of this country can be run on any list of any party. If the law changes, then we can talk about it. Then he won't be able to. So no one has changed their nationality either, I can see that half is mentioned, which is particularly likable, and it's the same about the atmosphere in this assembly, and what the treatment of a few opposition MPs is, is now going into their full commitment and everything else. The majority also voted in favour of some candidates of a very controversial gender commitment and none of them were making a problem, none of them from the opposition were making a problem. Some did, even some in power, but then they voted neatly. What I'm saying is that we have to take care of, if it really cares about the return of democracy and politics to parliament, then it's not just about form, it's about the essence, it's about the content of what we're talking about here. So it also means courage to admit that something was wrong. It's not just the opposition from her boss who left this building, or at least part of the opposition. I think they're wrong, but I can psychologically understand them. So, the goal is to demonstrate this return of democracy and politics to parliament, but not only now, before elections and declaratively, but daily, among other things, by how the opinion of the parliamentary minority is treated here and here present minority MPs, or MPs of the opposition. And that treatment is not good and I have very exact indicators of it. But, of course, it's much easier and nicer to talk about some troubled MP of the opposition, whether he's here or not, even better if he's gone, not to talk about it, which is a policy, respected colleagues, that at the moment we have a case of the Deputy Prime Minister and a minister whose secretary of state was arrested, so he's released, and then that Deputy Prime Minister and that minister says, of course, he believes in his innocence, but he says he knows who's behind it. He knows who's behind that arrest and says, "I'm the target." That's what your vice president, Mrs. Mihajlovic, says. ‘The target is me’, i.e. The target is she and "I know who's behind it". Did she think of me or Gilas and Sollac being behind the arrest of her secretary of state? It's politics, respected colleagues. Or that the second vice-president of the government, also the minister, has a problem with proving his degree, not doctoral, is not talking about it anymore, but also school's, college degree. It was a story, some opposition colleagues launch it, and then they launch something else, and then it's forgotten, and it's a thing that you couldn't get past, and it's supposed to be a topic of interest, not just us small-scale opposition, but also the ruling majority here in parliament. Then it turns out that his parent, working at the arms store, suddenly discovered his interest in arms trafficking in the old retirement days. Then there's a couple of companies with these arms dealers, and then there's a debate about whether or not there's some ownership stake in those companies. In the meantime, in the APR, this property or co-ownership with the owner of these private companies was quickly erased, while the state arms manufacturer and state arms dealer recorded losses and private owners flourished. So it's politics, gentlemen. That's what we need to talk about here in the Assembly, not just protecting the population of bats in Europe or what ugly black MP of the opposition, I say here few, did something or didn't do it. In that way, I think you'll have less damage, which you let some opposition voice be heard, and not just some, but some criticism or discussion among yourselves about who the Deputy Prime Minister and the minister thinks about when he says he knows who's behind the attack on her, and she's the target of this arrest at the building ministry. Is it really okay for the Home Secretary's dad to wake up with business appetites and talents to wake up under his old days? Is that perhaps jeopardizing more, not power, but government and this country from some troubled opposition MP or politician? Anyway, so I think that the government and the opposition here have a little paint in the corner, so the government is now trying to take these proposals to get a little bit out of that corner, because it's not convenient to have a Assembly that only members of the two parties are sitting in, and so it would be that this censorship, only representatives of SNS and SPS, or their coalition partners. That would be the most likely outcome. It would be hard to accept it positively in the world, and I believe that this is why these measures are being proposed, and aside from what I think is the opposition, but that is now ours or theirs, as you will, the problem, has a little bit of a stained corner of that radical refusal to go to elections at any cost, so all the election conditions change are much more favourable than they are now. No, they're not ideal, but I can't lie to myself or anyone else to say that in 2018 and 2019 these electoral conditions were better, or 2016. No, they're not. My colleagues in power, and I end up with it, they think they're great now, and then they were. I think they were bad, I say they were bad, but I can't say they were worse than they were then. No, they're not. If they were going out then, they have to explain to themselves why they're not coming out right now, and I think it would be much better if they came here to this House, no matter how unpleasant and unsettling and to listen to all sorts of justified and unwarranted attacks on themselves, but to keep citizens from being denied their explanation why they won't, I don't know, go to elections, even if they won't go to elections. I have to admit, I don't understand until the end. Then let the citizens judge. Maybe they'd be more convincing in their reasons, maybe they'd convince some of them a lot better than this when they're only doing it on the outside. I'm saying, everyone will be judged and held accountable for what they've done, but I just think we should all be in the interest of the stability of this country. She's not so great at all, yet unlike her colleagues who think everything's okay and that she's just got some opposition, a few and a poor one, that's ruining happiness. It's not like that, things are bad enough, we also know that the foreign political situation is very bad and that there are various dangers and I, among other things, consider this discussion and this presence as a small contribution to this normalisation and stabilisation of political opportunities in the country, and the Assembly is somehow the most representative place where this policy can and must be led. So, you need to run in the Assembly, not lead in the Assembly, at least not run enough. For this responsibility lies the power, first of all, because they are the greatest, strongest and most responsible, but I think the opposition should also take a better and better stand. Whoever made the mistake, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70778	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, all remember very well, there are several weeks, literally the moment, but literally the same moment that Alexander Vukic came out publicly with the view of supporting and proposing that the issue of the electoral threshold, or censorship, as we all call it, be arranged so that the censorship from the current 5% goes to 3%, in order to encourage political life in Serbia, but also its additional articulation and finding a good space that all those who think in a certain way and have their representatives tomorrow in institutions, above all in the National Assembly, or in local congregations, remember how they read and in what direction the reactions were going. Of course, many have supported it, because this, to be honest, you can only support it. There is a certain number of those who have literally reflected the second with – no, it's not worth anything, no, that's out of the question. Why? Just because it was Alexander Vukic's proposal, and that's a good indicator, since we are talking about political relations and atmosphere today, we often like to talk about the atmosphere, in Serbia today. Who does it go to or who can it be credited to? Is there a better, more picturesque explanation that you really have in Serbia today a number of people who say they deal with politics, although there is hardly any policy in it. They say they deal with politics exclusively in a way that they are always against, always against what would come as a proposal from Alexander Vukic, the SNS, and it doesn't matter how much it's potentially good for the state or the people. Whatever's wrong, only if it comes from that side. We get into this completely cold head, completely rationally, we say, from the SNS, or others from the parliamentary majority, and we say -- come on, people, let's talk about it, let's see if there's anything you're going to resent, essentially, whether you're going to resent something that's going to have an effect tomorrow, will it in some ugly way affect things, will it do anyone harm, except, of course, the obvious and potential damage to the number of mandates for us, therefore, for our party, or our election list? Is there anything that harms anyone else, or is it just good for everyone? Then you're trying to hear anything, or they're trying to figure out and they're trying to say, in any way, shape anything, make any sense that would explain -- well, that's not good, that's why, for that and for that reason. It's not until today, it's just not there. It just doesn't exist because it just doesn't exist, and you can't really say anything meaningful as a reason why this, for God's sake, would be bad, harmful, why wouldn't it be an improvement, and the improvement is. Of all the things that could have been heard in these attempts, but just trying to find something as a grudge, it seems to me that the most persistent ones are those who, first of all, are these representatives of some NGOs and some members of the European Parliament who say – the main issue is that, you know, they can't change anything about election conditions in a year before the elections. What's left of you, then, is just to smile and spread your arms. They reminded many today, and I won't devote much time to that question again, but you can't ask them not to – stop, people, with whom we did it a month ago, a month and a half ago, just changing it in a positive direction, additionally correcting electoral conditions? That's when everything was in order. Is that right? And you said from the NGO sector, like everyone in the opposition, parliamentary and extra-parliamentary opposition, who were just asking for it. That is exactly what you have agreed to, including the people, members of the European Parliament who took part in it. Of course, that is exactly what they support, and now they say – it was all not good because it was in the year before the elections. Doesn't sound a little bit like a deep conflict with yourself, a difficult conflict of thought. Of course, that's it and basically nothing else is going on, we fix things, because that's what we agreed, and we make them just better. To say that he's surprised by the idea that a census can be lower, that doesn't mean much in itself. Surprised or not, let's talk about the point one more time. Does that improve? If it improves, what's the problem? They're not even here to be honest. You know, you could only hear it today, and they reminded it here from the SRS. That's what they did on their part as a proposal over 15 years ago, and for them it's been a topic ever since. For SDPS not 15, but more than 10 years sure. Many who have not been able to come here today, although they want to speak publicly on these topics, say – we suggested the same thing three years ago, five years ago, so what surprised you? Did it surprise anyone in Europe, so today they say – the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe could think this or that? Are they surprised to learn today that this Council of Europe, its Parliamentary Assembly, in 2010 was considering this particular topic, a 3% censorship? In 2010, she invited all Member States... That's Resolution 1705 of 2010. Here, read point 223. They invited everyone to go to the 3% censorship, because that's good. It's been a theme for them ever since. Now call them and explain that you're against their proposal because, I don't know what, you're protecting them. It doesn't make any sense. Why? Because this same Council of Europe said in 2007 – 3% in democracy is what we recommend because it represents the political opinion of the population in a good way. Now you have to explain to them that you defend them, understand better than they do. Full nonses, but then they say from the NGO sector, not here is the question of what needs a broad consensus. Did you hear any voice today, any opinion during this debate that went in the direction -- we disagree, we don't participate in consensus, that the censorship of 3% is a good thing, that the improvement in the existing five? I didn't hear that voice. Everyone agrees – yes. The improvement is, yes, it's good. Do you need some broader consensus to agree with those who say God in force – nothing is wrong, we will not talk, what is it only if it comes as a proposal from the parliamentary majority, at worst if it is from Alexander Vukic, to make a wider consensus with them? You know what, that's not hard for us to try, and that's what we've shown. Yes, it's true, we've been involved in interparty dialogue from the very beginning, we've been consistent, we've been persistent, we've wanted to talk to everyone. Every meeting they attended, they always responded. Of course, that dialogue was held at its very end, so the essential part when we agreed on all these measures that we had implemented in the National Assembly. We also called on those who were not represented in parliament to come, to participate. They were admitted to the National Assembly. The host of these meetings was National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic and we had no problem talking. The wider consensus also has to do with the question of who she touched and Mrs. Comic, willful dialogue. Yeah, he's got it. There is, and we showed that, among other things, by that act. Quite specifically about these proposals initiated public listening. They organized it on Tuesday and invited them all. So they called directly to the address and Alliance for Serbia, and then individually every party that has its MPs here, and you know they do. Then invite these youngsters to the Five Million Movement, too, to the address. All right, everybody, come on. The microphone is here and everyone can come out as well as everyone else can say – I think about it next. Like you, Mr. Vukadinovic, just now. Is there no problem in the congregation dialogue? Have you committed more than half of your time to re-exploiting some of the charges at the expense of our political representatives in the Serbian government instead of talking about the laws? Did anyone turn off the microphone, any penalties? It wasn't. Was Tuesday all about the highest possible democratic standards? Did everyone have a chance to go out and talk, say what was in his heart, without anyone bothering him? Of course it is. It is our relationship to dialogue, but ignoring this goodwill and these calls for dialogue to be conducted by those who are automatically against everything, it is an indication of their relationship, that they do not appear at all, that they do not want to come. I will not blame anything on the political parties involved, of course, in this debate because they are parliamentary. They have the right to state their position both in public listening and here and to choose. It doesn't matter, but if they don't show up, and they tell us, better than that is what? You want to talk on the street? Well, no, that's not exactly what we're gonna do. It is our desire to lead political life, as you have heard, in institutions, to be led in the National Assembly, and that is one of the things that, of course, we want to achieve, and there is absolutely nothing a single word can say against, to find a grudge. In particular, the organization “Crite” was celebrated. They can't explain, they just can't explain what's more loyal to reducing censorship. They know as well as everyone else, they took part in us changing more laws and not just laws. You know very well what there is and what RIK does with the training of the people who make the elections and what we did on the subject of the electoral list. These are all qualitative changes in the positive direction ahead of the elections. We want to participate in everything that's good. What we do today and REM adopts rules for public services and recommendations for commercial services. These are all things that seem to be meant to improve additional things. As you can see, we don't have any problem with that. We want everything that's good and useful. They say those from "The Line" -- now you've taken it, you've changed the political system. Is it less proportional to the system than it was? Do we have more election units or less than we had? It's already comical. It's already gone beyond the category of any serious objections. The essence of those remarks that are trying to be pronounced in any way, even though they're unsuspectingly sounding and sounding so serious, is, I would say, precisely in the fact that some consider their boycott, which they are calling out loud, is completely demoted as the political idea of these changes. But they're not here to end up being honest with themselves, and they don't see how much themselves, first of all, is the biggest problem. See what today's situation looks like in the ranks of these famous boycotters. One of the founders has been speaking openly for a month. I am going to the elections. I am not interested in your story of the boycott. Two more decided to go to the election in half the vote for now, but it's completely obvious to everyone. People want to protect their power in their cities and municipalities and then let us spoil something for them. We have nothing, as you can see, or us, to be honest to the end, that's too much to ask. We're just one thing in this whole story interested and it's a message we keep repeating all the time – do whatever you want, vote, don't have to, participate, don't have to, just don't harass other people, don't threaten other people. Don't deny anyone the right, the fundamental right to go to the elections, to vote if he wants to, to support whoever he wants to. That's all. We're not asking too much. Why are they not interested in elections in the defacto of the best possible conditions we've ever had, and we've never had this kind of censorship, like many other things, which is best explained by those who are the opposition, but who are just real people and they said -- see what the ratings look like, what level of support can expect these famous boycotters. And I said it myself, people, I believe there's nothing exaggerated, among them no one can approach the 5% censorship alone, and that's the essence of their problem. It is not the essence of their problem whether we have proposed this now at the beginning of February or at the end of December. The bottom line is they know for themselves that there's nothing to look for in these elections, but it's not the essence of what we're doing trying to come up with their desire to achieve some inner happiness. The point is what's good for Serbia. Is it good for Serbia to run politics in the National Assembly? Yeah, 100%. Is it good that instead of being an alternative, we might have violence and street events? Not 100%. So, are we going to further improve things, introduce more democracy, and do that with this proposal? We say, "We will, and anyone who participates in this can only be proud to participate." Should we further liberalize them, and this is what we do with this proposal, we say again – we want to encourage pluralism. That's what we do with this proposal, and then we say, "We will." Are we going to provide more freedom than there's ever been? We will, yes. Whoever doesn't want to participate doesn't have to, but whoever wants to can only be proud, because with all the other good things that are happening in Serbia these days, and in this way, in the positive, most positive sense, the history of this country is written. So, to be the day of democracy's own celebration, when we will make these suggestions – yes, that's right. When you look at the National Assembly throughout 2020, as long as it lasts, but also throughout 2019, you will see that there are all the good things that are so good standards in the work of the National Assembly that we have never had, and that is what anyone who is honest will tell you, and many of the positive records we have established, but when it comes to these bill proposals it is good and it encourages what already works today – we will do another good joint result in two days from today. Regarding the objections made by authentic political representatives of national minorities, we stand behind the words we said two days ago. There are good proposals, amendments already formulated, and we are still behind our good will to shape and finalize good things together. Finally, let's say a little commendation. There are now more than 40% of the ladies in our parliamentary group. So the proposal to keep it that way, of course, we find it very valuable to discuss it in the National Assembly. After all, we have also confirmed our signatures for today's session. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs who vote for these bill proposals, which we are discussing, can once again be proud to have participated in such a job for Serbia, and those who are bothered by the fact that good, smart, valuable things come to Alexander Vukic and SNS. In Serbia 2020, it is normal for the good for the country and people to formulate useful things and implement them on the proposal of Aleksandr Vukic. You know what, it's not just that it doesn't surprise anyone, it's normal. It is good that it will remain so certain in the years ahead, above all good for Serbia, and that is always the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70780	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70781	Respected those present, the improvement of the electoral process through legislation is of paramount importance for the overall political situation in the state and society. That is why MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party participate in this process and in the variant when we had the opportunity to talk and negotiate with EU representatives, but also on all other occasions, including public debate, or public hearing that we had the day before, in which we took full part and expressed our views. So we look forward to the will to improve the quality of the electoral process. Certainly, the descent of the censorship, i.e. the electoral threshold, is a positive sign, and it will allow the image, i.e. the structure of the future parliament and future parliaments at all levels, to have a colourful face, where the dissipation of votes will be prevented, i.e. taking over or receiving those votes that are not received through the will of voters. True, our remarks related to the subject of minority participation in the elections, in particular regarding the control of possible abuse or the exclusion of the possibility of abuse of minority lists at all levels. We had a proposed variant to include national councils on this control through a certain issue of certificates. We thought it was wrong, because national councils are auxiliary bodies, not state administrative authorities, issuing certificates is an administrative procedure. On that side, it would be difficult to explain and justify tomorrow both in front of administrative courts and in front of any other instance. We were certainly willing to offer solutions that would give the result that the proposer obviously has for the purpose, which is to minimise the possibility of abuse of this category. So let's go, with intervention and after the talks, and what we heard in public hearing, to find the possibility that national councils can keep an opinion, that actually the authority that checks out the conditions for going to elections in all the lists, actually checks that out in the lists of national minorities. Of course, we are generally interested in improving the participation of minority communities in the elections and their larger presence in the National Assembly, given that we now had this gap in relation to the population structure, where we have about 30% of national minorities in this country, and in parliament about seven or eight percent of national minorities. So also in this regulation, but it is also necessary to continue on some future occasions to find the possibility for this representation to be more adequate to the image structure of the population itself. We are also interested in increasing the electoral process in the legal dimension to strengthen the control of these provisions on the ground, given that our experience in Sandzak space is not good, because there are numerous abuses in the numbering of votes itself, so we will be satisfied only when the electoral process is introduced in this country and the scan of ballots and electronic counting, which is not some achievement, some countries, such as Turkey, which is a Euro-Asian country, is 20 and several years ago, then eliminates the potential of abuse. We'll stand for it in the future. It was our wish, although we do not have it in these proposals now, that the number of signatures for national minorities will be brought down to 5,000, where in some ways all these concessions that are being made in general will be balanced, making it easier to participate in elections with a 3% censorship while it is disproportionate to the national minorities where you will have an approximate number between what is the number of votes for one MP or the natural threshold and the number of signatures needed. As for the proposal for a greater presence of the female population, namely women in parliament, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party support this proposal. We believe that it is necessary to enable female population representatives to be more present in the overall social political life, looking at what was and now is the role of a woman in our society, is that they have often been much more responsible for preserving numerous values, especially those of family and other universal values. That's why they deserve such a chance and deserve that representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70782	Thank you for your support. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70783	Thank you, President. I'm not voting for this bill, and I'm going to state some of the reasons. First, it's from the process of making these changes and supplementing the abandoned people. Only representatives of political parties agreed, those who participated in the Faculty of Political Sciences or in the Assembly building, and the people had no opportunity to declare this. Therefore, if this is the National Assembly and the domain is not -- the National Assembly.rs, but the Parliament.rs, and it should be modelled by the domains of all the other highest legislative bodies in the region, I ask the question -- why are the citizens of Serbia left out? The second observation is that at the end of the second decade of the 21st century, next to the syaset offices for e-business, etc., we do not have the ability to vote electronically for our citizens in the distance, and they are objectively unable to vote in China, Australia, in the US, Canada, in many others, in the Russian Federation, etc., because they practically need thousands of miles to travel and to stay away from work, and we could click on a computer to do their civic duty. Why and who is afraid of the participation of our citizens in the diaspora? I don't believe it's just the ruling majority, but the opposition, too, probably. Third, this proposal partially facilitates participation of those who have less capacity to go to elections with 5% of the threshold, to 3%. But what about the others? If one MP represents 0.4% of the voting body, 250 times 0.4, it is 100%, why not allow citizens who are non-party personalities to enter the Assembly with 0.4% of the turnout and not to be attached to the list of political parties and so on? In this way, the basics would also be created for the parties of national minorities. It's the same case with two or three, but when it comes to five, then I accept it to be the 3 percent threshold. Then, the question I asked when we spoke in a small hall, in public listening, was that the MP was not a municipal, city or certain electoral unit, but was an MP of the Republic of Serbia. I agree, but no one can convince me that 72 municipalities and four cities, which is about 50% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, have no MPs, but that only the majority MPs from Belgrade and Novi Sad decide on the fate of all Serbian citizens, because if I am not mistaken from Belgrade, there are 89 MPs, from Novi Sad 39, or at least before certain changes in the structure of the MPs then, which means that the actual majority is provided only on the basis of MPs from these two cities. Also, the question arises, if 3% of the lower threshold for participation in the Assembly, and 10,000 signatures are to be collected, as well as for the coalition, which, for example, had 12 coalition partners in this meeting, and won 48.5% of the votes. When you divide that 48.5%, that means it's less than 5%. The question arises who would enter, and then when they enter the Assembly, they leave that umbrella and make their own parliamentary clubs, so they have 12 times 20 minutes and dominate in terms of participation. Let me finish the sentence, Vice President, at least that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70784	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70785	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' People's Party, the United Peasants' Party will support in the day to vote the proposals proposed by the SNS parliamentary group on this agenda. We have one reserve when it comes to the laws proposed by Mrs Comic, which is that we are not sure if such a legal provision survives that it will ultimately have the effect of being the same and in the light of this legislative proposal. I am not sure that, unlike the law so far, which sets out in a more precise way the half-represented schedule on the candidate list, this will lead to a situation to ensure that there is approximately 40% of the less represented half that, if adopted, will have to be on the candidate list. I wouldn't particularly explain it to everyone, it's clear. What if hypothetically among the top 10, the first six places include the names of the mostly represented sex, and the last four places of 10 are represented by the less represented gender on the list, and let's say because of the passing of the small one, a lot of the list ends with the six MPs in a row in the Assembly. In this way it can happen and it is not unrealistic to expect that in such a situation, even less represented sex is less represented than under the current law, but well, it is a matter of the promoter, we will still discuss it in particular when it comes to the agenda. As for non-supporting changes proposed by the SNS parliamentary group, which is essentially a reduction in the censorship from 5% to 3%, I really don't understand that attitude. Such an attitude can only be seen by one who cannot participate in the elections and I can only see through this that such dissatisfactions or inadequacies, because this is proposed and I expect it to be adopted, and the law was probably meant to read in another way, when it could be brought into some nightmare or madness, and that is to put forward by the decree by Gilas as Serbian President, Bosko Obradovic for Prime Minister, Vuk Jeremic, for what it is, etc., but it is not. It was neither, nor will it be, nor can they, in any election, achieve it as a result of the election. We support and stand behind the need to reduce the censorship. It will simply ensure the better representativeness of parliament at the moment. After all, once upon a time it was a censorship and it seems to me that raising that threshold, if I am not mistaken in 2008 from 3% to 5%, was precisely at the heart of the representativeness of Parliament itself. Therefore, the objections that are still being made that this has not been discussed under the auspices of the EU's representatives, I really don't see why it would be the privilege of EU representatives to propose it. It's their fault they didn't think of it. That could be discussed in the autumn that someone remembered it, thought about it. I fear that only these EU representatives, with the way they participated in the talks during the autumn, and what approach they have, are not interested in making fair and fair elections in Serbia, but in creating the conditions that after the elections, elections will be declared illegal in any way, although there will certainly be no basis for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70786	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70787	I thank you, chairing the opportunity to get word and comment on all four drafts of the law, namely two and two, whether it is the author of one group of laws, MPs Aleksandr Martinovic, on behalf of the SNS, and political parties who are with us in the coalition, both in parliament and in the executive government, or this time it is also about the proposals of the law of the opposition parliamentary group, Mrs Gordana Komic. When I explained the merger of the debate, I'm not sure everyone heard me or maybe not everyone understood me. My intention was, when I suggested that the debate be brought together, it was precisely to draw attention to an extremely important session that was to be held today. What I expected, I expected here, let's not exaggerate, to be 200 MPs, but at least we don't have empty benches from individual parliamentary clubs, because these topics are very challenging, for some perhaps controversial, if I can interpret the debate of some colleagues, but in politics it's also important that you have controversial moves. And, as Simon Peres said, it's important that you dream big dreams and then they come true. So we have done some very important things for Serbia today, and I am not sure that all of your people understand and that they have been kept on one surface, as the law is called and what is foreseen in one of the provisions. We have done much more and for the first time in the history of multi-party Serbia, we have had the political strength and wisdom to discuss the laws no matter who suggested them. Whether it was by an MP of the ruling majority or by someone in the opposition. We have achieved that today we listen to each other, that no one offends anyone, that we cross arguments, and that we see who will eventually vote. If we failed in the previous period, this is a good introduction to a new Parliament's calling that awaits us in a few months. What we did in about two or three weeks. So, the first thing that is proposed is to reduce the electoral censorship at the republican level, at the local level for election participants from the current 5% to 3%. I am pleased that the committee responsible for constitutional matters and legislation has maintained public listening. Public listening was pretty good. Political parties who are parliamentary parties participated, there were representatives of NGOs and the civil sector, but somehow it seemed to me that a lot of them made an effort to draw attention to other things, and to cloud the essence of taking down censorships by five or three percent and how good it was for Serbia, how good it was for democracy and how good it is to get parties from different political spectrum in the next parliament, so that Serbia's citizens broadly get their representatives here in parliament, to speed up democracy and what's most important to bring the dialogue back here to this hall and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, let's say the street -- there's something else going on on the street, and here in parliament, there's a debate on every topic that's of interest to the citizens of Serbia, who have circled the political agenda of our parties and the name of the president of our parties, because we're the leader state, we're not the only one in the world, as long as you want a country in Europe where Angela Merkel is said to be, that's it, so now her successor has to be set up. Now, that's what the SPS says, it's currently Ivica Dacic, he was once a Free Milosevic, with us someone else, etc. But the citizens of Serbia will, by not boycotting, boycotting at least, appear to boycott these elections, even if anyone laughs at Nenad Canak, so my late grandmother Olga of Salajka said. That's what I'm saying to Nenada Chanka, because she knows what's what. Serious politicians, old-school politicians, I don't mean years, but people who know what politics is, will roll their sleeves, will go to elections, will come out with concrete political programmes, will present themselves to Serbian citizens, voters, and thus win the number of votes that will allow them to be here in parliament and continue to fight for their ideas. That was so, so it would be years, years, maybe centuries behind us, because another form of democracy, except for such a representative does not exist, was experiments in the history of the 20th century differently, but ended in great wars and, of course, the idea of democracy and happiness again, and should be repeated forever, Serbia was in all wars on the right winning side. So I was expecting all MPs to participate here, to hear political ideas. So, is this good or not good, but a lot of things, because when you talk about election law, that might be even more important than the budget, because the budget goes for one year, and the election laws apply for a cycle of four, five years. Obviously, something has changed in Serbia's political life when MPs consider, representatives of citizens and political options, that they should give a quorum and then come out, and that we do not hear what is good in our proposal from all political parties, which is not good in these three percent. If they're going to get us off the street, we don't have time and we don't want to listen and we're going to end up going to the polls and trick those who really believe them, fortunately there's little in Serbia, so they're going to show up in the election. Someone's going to go out to Capca for a little while, someone's going to go out to Paracino, someone's going to show up in Old Town again, someone's going to send some students instead of themselves to have a few MPs here who can talk about what's going on here in parliament, but they need to tell Serbian citizens the boycott is farce, of the boycott nothing, let's see what we can do well in these bill proposals. I am one of the participants in the dialogue that has been conducted since this summer, driven by NGOs, at the Faculty of Political Sciences and the other part here, three rounds, under the auspices or in co-operation with the European Parliamentarians, as anyone likes to say. And some MPs, some political parties have defined themselves as boycotting that dialogue, but they will not boycott the elections, of course, and we have done a lot. Now, first of all, I have to tell the citizens of Serbia that those who asked for dialogue did not come. They didn't come, and they kept yelling that there was no dialogue, that they were asking the European Parliamentarians to help us who spoke the same language, I guess they're translating to us, so we don't have a lost one, in a translation between us. The Serbian Progressive Party has nothing to lose and, of course, we have joined this dialogue and everything we have agreed there has been fulfilled. Next week, after two other REM members are due on Friday to join the election of two REM members and all what we agreed on in the dialogue, everything has been met, except that the Alliance for Serbia, Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, they were all just us and Serbia were distracting. First they said it was me. Well, then they said the problem was the Rules of Procedure. Well, then they said the problem was amendments. Well, emergency procedure. Well, bringing the debate together wasn't enough time to talk about the budget. Mistakes are admitted, right? Only great people and those who are sure of themselves can say, yes, we made a mistake, let's change that. And everything's changed and there's nothing left, not like in the song, but there's really nothing more out of these remarks from the European Commission's report and those who complained about it. Except that they found some reason, they didn't believe that all of this would be improved, and they kept on not coming. If we're going to analyze who's not coming? Well, those who are not messengers do not come. I don't know how Dragan Gilas can say he boycotts parliament's work when he's not an MP. And it kind of got into the part of the public and then some media told him and said, "Here, Dragan Gilas boycotts parliament's work." Well, what's he gonna boycott when he's never been an MP. Maybe a long time ago, but DS replaced him from the president's post, so he's not even an MP anymore. Bosko Obradović? Well, Bosko Obradovic doesn't have a parliamentary club. It is not the work of the Dveri Parliament Club that boycotts the work of Bosko Obradovic as an individual and perhaps someone who follows him in the criminal enterprise compared to the parliamentary life of Serbia and democracy. Well, that's a criminal enterprise. You pretend to be some naive people who support you as something that you're boycotting, and you won't tell them that the club has fallen apart and that you're left with a total of two or three. And who else is boycotting? I don't know who's boycotting Parliament's work anymore? Well, people who weren't the most regular in class anyway don't come. Let's take a look before that verbal boycott of theirs is there all the time. Well, then we have a group of MPs who don't boycott their salary, let's say it's a fucked-up topic. Okay, we don't want to talk about it, but they don't boycott Serbia's parliament when it's supposed to travel abroad to represent Serbia, so one of them gets diaries, not ours, but the fat diaries there in those international organisations. I don't want to be maligned and say names. I'm only talking about appearances. Just about showing up that it's super 500 Swiss francs a day, and when you come to Serbia, you tell the citizens of Serbia, I'm boycotting. What are you boycotting? When you're seriously boycotting, you come out of parliament, and you say you won't have anything to do with a Serbian delegation. I don't want to go to a delegation whose boss is Maja Gojkovic and I don't want to receive journals. I had nothing to do with it. Now, that's a real boycott, and this is at least what politicians are who will never, in essence, become big politicians. It'll only be one summer, it's Ben Quick, it's coming back to me, because I'm very old, uh, old, I'm getting my memory and association back on some good shows and good movies. I can't believe I'm doing this in real life right now with some political amateurs who have done damage to the state. They've done damage, they've invented, they're lying, they're talking nonsense, they're crossing the borders of our country, they're turning into some kind of, I don't know, they can't be contained when they see the border and they go to some other air. Well, then that kind of fiction that we're forced to do, that false news, that we're always answering. Someone comes and says they hired so many singers at the Post Office. There, it is the level of discussion of MPs who want to be an alternative to the ruling parties. That's the level. That's what they go to Brussels to say that someone hired a singer at the Post Office. Really, I now understand why they boycott, when you present this spectrum of political ideas to the citizens of Serbia, I will take 500 francs of Swiss on a day, I will go there to talk about my country that some singers are employed in public enterprises, I will boycott but I will tell my mother and aunt to go to local elections anyway... Well, of course they can't get 3%. Well, where are those 90,000 citizens going to go to this lack of politics? No response to SNS and Alexander Vukic's policies and our partners. Well, there aren't 90,000 people who would support something like that. No, it just doesn't. That is why we have come to this by amending the law to allow serious politicians to run, who know that dialogue and policy talks are in place in parliament and to allow citizens of Serbia to vote for whoever they want, not to say it selfishly - well, I will not go to the elections, and what then will the one you have gone crazy and who wants to seek an alternative. As far as this second set of laws applies, you've all failed the gender equality exam. It's not a question of women being involved in politics. We didn't come here looking for anything from men. Where does it say that something belongs to men in a shelf and women in politics doesn't belong to anything, so we need to come looking for something, and you're going to give it to us? It's a complete failure of such a way of thinking. Women in this country were given the right to vote in 1945. Since then, we've been going up the line, and then it's started to discuss whether women should participate, how much they should participate, whether we have abilities, whether we can run something, whether we're good as MPs, ministers, here, there, and all in some percentages. I've never been a feminist, radical feminist, but really, when I hear discussions now that I'm dealing with politics, men, they're going to think a little bit about whether they're giving us another 2.5% chance to run somewhere, then I'm becoming more radical and more radical about it. We're not here 33.3%. There are 37.4% of us here, I think, or 8%, I'm not the best at that calculation. This is a shift, not just two and a half percent, to be more represented by a woman, because she has us on the last 50% list in this country, so we can turn that law around and we can work out a little bit, how many men we're going to let deal with politics, because there's over 50% of us in the voting body. And we're not only good enough to go to elections and round up men, give them trust, we're good and run the country. We know very well, because I've heard these days that there aren't enough women in the smaller environments to deal with politics. It seems to me that those who have spoken to their party stations in smaller environments have spoken to men again. They didn't talk to women, party members. If a woman had been turned around, she'd say, how much do you need a woman for that list? It's that nobody here has realized, I mean, women are, they're more or less brave to say what I said, but I'm saying this on behalf of all of us, on behalf of all of us, and even those outside this building, on behalf of women who have been watching me do politics for 30 years. When I ran for the beginning of my political career, she was Ljubica Djakovic from Montenegro, she was Natasha Gašes from the SPS, it was me, I can't remember who was from the DS. There's 78.4% of us now. Well, whether I or not a feminist, we must have been a role model. I don't see what a terrible problem it is now that we started to talk openly about that woman in this country having more, that we're able to do the same things about politics, like our esteemed colleagues, that we have quality and that we've been helped a lot by that quota system since 10 years ago when it was adopted, right, because if with this way of understanding we keep asking something and we're asking for someone to approve something, we wouldn't be this angry. But I know what it was like when there were no quotas. Very few women represented interests, not only women, but all citizens of Serbia here. So, please, don't just look back on the subject and let our colleagues convince us both yesterday and yesterday that outside of Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis no woman will be involved in politics, so that they can't get 40% of women to find 37.4%, but that 2%, a terrible mission. Ambassador Zukorlic openly says he supports it and does not have a problem with it. The Serbian Radical Party, today Dr Vojislav Seselj, I thought he would now break up, no, he says, why there is no proposal for women to be in the executive power as well. So does it turn out that the left is afraid, that he has big ideas, and then when it comes to realisation, then he stops there a little bit. We can consider the amendments, if it's about the schedule of who's going to be in 1, 5, 7, 9th place, then it's a mistrust in the parties to which it belongs. The Serbian Progressive Party does not have the problem, because you see how many women are in high places and it was not a question of quotas at all, but whether or not we know how well we do business in relation to the competition that would lead the same portfolio. That was the only question. Obviously, there are still these prejudices and perhaps we can define even better with the amendment, but this will make it more difficult for those parties who are still reluctant to support 40% of them because they're going to be nailed just like that. I'm up for it, we're gonna adopt the amendment, we're gonna secure a place for women just so everyone can talk in their own party. That's what I told my fellow Members of the Women's Parliamentary Network yesterday and that they had to fight in their parties for equal opportunities. We've been through a lot of seminars, and we've been educated, so don't know how many. We've been going around the world. We've seen it done in the world in both positive and negative terms. And here they took us to some seminars. We learned all of this well and we realized that policy of equal opportunities is our policy. That's where the consensus was made. But I didn't know that when we came to the realization, we'd find many obstacles and prejudices. It worries me that in one person who acted liberally, suddenly took three steps back and said – what they are now asking of us. All we ask is that we be valued for our merit. That's all. That's how the schedule's gonna be. Those women who are good at yours and in our parties they will be forward on the lists, the others will be a little back. No one's asking for names to be drawn. Don't get me wrong. Some MPs have retreated a little, watching their bosses say what they're going to say about it, so we'll wait till Saturday to see who's going to vote. It seems that change isn't just about how men look at us. It definitely seems that change isn't just about how they respect us, it's about how we respect ourselves. If we respect ourselves, on Saturday we certainly have historic laws to open the door that 40% of women have the right, have the opportunity to run in the right places, in local congregations and at the republican level. That's all I'm asking. If there are 51% of us in this country, if there are us in the electoral body to enable us and that we can make decisions for Serbia, for our families, for our cities, for our villages, whatever. I hope that such a good proposal will be reviewed at the Duke's level as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70788	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70789	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, friends and comrades, the law that lies ahead has several faults. In these few defects, I would like to say in the first place that he comes too late, that he is too late in this house, and that simply by being late, he completely needlessly raises the good intentions, I believe, of proposing that the amendment of the electoral law help parliament to perform its function better. When I say too late here, I think the amendment of the law is late 20 years ago because 20 years ago, when that law was passed, the LSV voted against it for the simple reason that it was already clear that 5% of the censorship of Serbia was a single electoral unit, which was far more unfair, even than the electoral law during Slobodan Milosevic's regime, where it was 5%, but there were more election units. I'll remind you, there were 26 for the Republic Assembly and there were nine for the Federal Assembly, if memory serves me well. All in all, this law by reducing 3% of the election will help to impose several injustices on that law from 20 years ago. But LSV thinks it's not enough. That's why we've submitted certain amendments. First of all, how will regional parties be treated? The issue of regional parties is much more serious than it seems at first sight for the simple reason that this law gives the possibility of a better range of political ideas represented in the National Assembly, but on the other hand does not guarantee the territorial representation of Serbian citizens where, for example, at this time in this meeting of the National Assembly, there are twice as many MPs, who are from Belgrade than from Vojvodina who have more residents than Belgrade. And not anymore, but twice as much. It is a sign that when we consider that 40% of Serbia's territory has no representatives at all in this home, then decisions are made far more based on party conclusions and decisions than on the interests of Serbian citizens, which is, of course, unacceptable. That is why regional parties should not only have their place in this home but also have to be treated in a way that will show in advance what kind of Serbia we want to make. On the one hand, if only the parties of national minorities, the national communities, where we have made this amendment, cannot question whether a party of national minorities will decide on the national council of that national minority, since it is not a state body, on the one hand, nor does it belong to its competences, but it must be done by RIK, but at this point we leave it aside. By doing so, we are practically bringing Serbia back to a step in relation to the rights achieved for a simple reason, which means that, based on nationality, someone has a privileged electoral condition in relation to someone who belongs to the majority people. In this sense, practically Serbia is transformed into a confederation of national communities with the full domination of the Serbian national community, which is understandable on the one hand, since the Serbian national community is dominant and majority in Serbia, which is also natural, but on the other hand we are putting into place another idea within the Serbian national community's Corps that they cannot legitimateise minority ideas unless they are ethnically based. In practice, Serbia comes down to a retrograde state in which national means politically, which of course is not true because the regional and cultural differences that exist between different parts of Serbia are far deeper and larger than the differences between individual national communities. That's one thing. Secondly, when we talk about this Visko Dom and the role of the Assembly that should be better than it is now, and better not just because, as counterpart Gojkovic said, there was a question whether there was a dialogue or no dialogue. It is not a question of whether there is a dialogue or whether there is a debate in this Assembly, but whether there is a result of this dialogue. And when we talk about the results of the dialogue, I don't think about these negotiations whether someone is going to boycott or not, it's the thing that belongs to anyone who decides to do something like that and participates in political life. But there's something else. This question of results also means the question of respecting a different opinion, because the Assembly that has been converted into a voting machine for decades, which does not respond to arguments, which does not respond and cannot change the decisions made in advance, is not the Assembly that will attract MPs, i.e. to run for it by people who have something to say, but to run for the people who won't interfere in their business, let me put it that way, and which will be part of certain party groups that will follow party orders. This is not the role of parliament in democratic society. That is why, unless we protect the Assembly, including election laws, from this type of degradation, we will be in a position for the Assembly to lose its primary function. When we look at all this and consider this, that the proposal of colleague Gordana Komic, who refers to the amendment that among the ranks of MPs, there should be a minimum 40% less represented gender on the electoral lists, this proposal is, in my deep confidence, a question of civilization rather than a party or political one. Because if we do not insist on the protection of the less represented sex in terms of representation, we will be in a position to step by step of the problems that citizens and citizens of less-represented sex may speak more competently are not visible and transparent enough, which is why I do not support the common problems of all citizens of this country, regardless of gender, but also regardless of national, religious or political membership. That is why I think that the amendments submitted by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, and it has submitted amendments on regional political parties, on national councils and their roles in granting status, so to speak, to the national minority parties and a few other amendments, I think they can help make this Assembly work better. When we talk about the National Assembly, only with such an approach of understanding that minority opinion can be true, and mostly wrong, if it is not understood that a good idea must be brought to life for the benefit of all citizens, no matter where we come from, if we do not perceive it in this National Assembly, we will be in a position for the National Assembly to lose its credibility completely. If he completely loses credibility, we will be in a position to rule this country by executive authority. If this country is ruled by executive power, it's called a coup and it's called dictatorship. We're not in that phase yet, but if we don't respond, we'll get to it. Because every dictator has always moved from marginalizing parliament. That is why the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina welcomes this reduction in censorship, but that, I repeat, is not far enough. It's just a little detail, where I would personally, since the LSV's main board will decide to go to the polls, but I personally advocate going to the elections under all conditions, for the simple reason that every alternative to the election is the street, and the street means violence, means conflict and means simply the tragedy in which we will be introduced. I am not prepared, nor as president of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, nor as a man, to take responsibility for such a thing, for the simple reason this country saw too much evil, that we should play with its fate. And that is why I call on all the MPs to fence themselves from any violent attempt to change anything, not only in this country, but that the street changes anything, anywhere and in the environment, including BiH, including, of course, the Republic of Montenegro. If we don't take care of our neighbours, we will lose sight of the fact that the entire Balkan system is connected courts, where everything that happens to our neighbours will spill over to us if we don't take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70790	The word has a folk MP, Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70791	Thank you. I thank all the participants so far in the debate for everything said, from very clear and open support to voting, to arguments that divide dilemmas, so through clear opinions about what women want, what men want, and how good things can be done for Serbia. In the opening part of the defense of what I wanted to encounter the approval of the majority, I said the following. A dialogue area has been created. The opposition should be right, and the government has a responsibility and a created space, thanks to the President of the National Assembly's decision to make that space. We are in it now and we exchange words of support, doubts, criticism, and, I think, together and hope, that the future 40% of women will really mean the European face of Serbia, even better than now. And here's exactly another chance for probably the first time in this National Assembly meeting, since I've come to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which she proposes to the National Assembly not to accept the drafts of the 40% bill on the lists. I know that the opinion of the Serbian government is not binding and that the National Assembly can consider, consider and decide what it will be, but it has never happened before. And that's another proof of how healthy, necessary dialogue is, how good for democracy can't be without dialogue. When we started the dialogue on one subject, we have now come up with a dialogue on another topic, which produces procedural issues, because it should be a session of the committee to discuss the law in principle and in particular and this assembly council really has the opportunity to demonstrate the independence, supervisory, control role of the National Assembly, showing that most, of course, supports the government, but that the majority and minorities in this Assembly have the consent to change women and men's representation to the better and full equality in the next meeting, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70792	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70793	As we know, the opinion of the executive authority does not oblige legislative authority. This authority was chosen by the people, the citizens of Serbia who voted for their representatives. And we choose government, we choose executive power. I think and I'm convinced that not those who prevailed, you're not going to tell me that all the ministers were very keenly involved in this kind of interpretation of the bill that you proposed, but we all supported it here, or whatever you want, that they didn't realize that we wanted to step up from what was passed 10 or 12 years ago and that life had changed those 33.3% and turned into the current 37.4%. We can't go backwards, so there's something less of us now than there is today in this room, in this congregation. We have, as far as we know in public, a coordination body dealing with gender equality. I don't want to believe this is their attitude. That's not what I want to believe. I prefer to believe that some bureaucrats sat down, told some opinion, and there was a fax, let's move on, not realizing that life changed the law from 10 years ago. That's it. If we need an amendment, so let's line ourselves up as pins, we'll be second, fourth, seventh, ninth, and we'll do that, but I don't want to believe that the Coordination Body cares about this opinion, because we're about to pass a law on gender equality in which it says - 40%, not only in parliaments, but in all places, 40% less than the gender represented. In the opinion, something is not in line with the draft law that the government is about to refer to parliament. So I call on the MPs, we seem to know life better, and how many of us are here, exactly, in parliament, than the bureaucrat who wrote two sentences in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70794	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will begin my presentation on two words spoken by MP Nenad Canak – dialogue and results. We have a dialogue here, we have it here in our Parliament. Earlier, Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic spoke about it. We're discussing. We do not know the result at this time, but we are MPs with integrity, MPs who will defend their views. When I say we have a dialogue, we've been leading the election policy dialogue since July, and now February is the month. We are changing laws, we are correcting the situation, and to point out that these choices we have had since 2000 and together with 2016 have been by the electoral laws that the international public has accepted, but our internal public has also accepted, as legal and legitimate. We've now improved the situation. We've changed four laws, no more functional campaigns. Furthermore, public resources cannot be used, a way of financing parties, so that the parties can no longer finance election activities from their regular resources, so that public enterprises cannot be abused in the election campaign. Now someone tells us, no, you didn't do anything. I point out that what we're discussing today is the crown of our work and just the result of our work. So, gentlemen, those who do, who want to change things, who want to improve things, they have results. We have the results, and we're about to show it on Saturday night when it comes out. What I can certainly say, which is that lowering the censorship to 3% is something that the Social Democratic Party welcomes, and we insisted on that 10 years ago and sought in a broader corpus of changing the Constitution and adapting our Constitution and all our laws in line with European principles. I wouldn't talk about it much for a simple reason, because my colleagues already talked about it and said their views. There's been a change of laws here regarding national minorities. The Social Democratic Party believes that national minorities must be represented in the national parliament, in local parliaments, and that we must find the best solution for them to really be represented, but not for abuse, but for them to be true representatives of national minorities, because that is what Serbia needs and necessary. If this is the best solution, we'll see through the debate. We have amendments and I hope that we will have the knowledge and ability to come up with the best solution and that we will truly truly protect the national minorities. This time that I still have I will dedicate to what is my pleasure, which is the participation of women in the work of parliaments. I can tell you that the quotas that were introduced, the 30% quota, have actually yielded results. That's quite a high quota, and I have to say that Serbia is a country that's quoted pretty high in the world, and we're raising the scale now. I am proud of that fact, and I can point out right now that the Social Democratic Party will be proud to vote for that quota, and not only for the quota in the congregations, in parliament and in the local authorities of the administration, but also in the executive bodies, that we will consider how many women are at the head of our assembly committees, how many women are in committees and elsewhere. We often look at only the most prominent functions, and we don't see where women are. I must admit that the Focus Group for the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goal in December conducted one analysis. There have been UN experts and we've been very commended for what we've done so far. Now let's move on. I'm proud of the fact that we're moving on, that we're gonna take a big step and I'm behind it. Therefore, dear fellow MPs, be assured that we will do a great thing when we vote this proposal for a 40% quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70796	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70797	I thank you, Chairman. I'm going to start my discussion from this so-called. The first body of the bill we're discussing. I must immediately point out that this way of proposing laws gives us the right to say that further improvements are being made, not only election conditions, but also to stimulate the democratic process in Serbia. Democratic pluralism, which in some way systematises the electoral laws in which we are having a debate, gives the possibility to all political parties who are voting for parliamentary mandates to articulate their political views and therefore there is no single reason nor is there an excuse for the absence of a democratic debate, from dialogue, from dealing with opinions, particularly political views, which is unfortunately not present in this House. The political parties that have been defined as an extra-institutional struggle, even if it was a street, have not recognised or wanted to recognise that the acuity must be replaced by dialogue, that destruction must be replaced by dialogue, that malignancy and all that leads politically to the opposite side, compared to democratic means of fighting again, is the only alternative to dialogue. We here today, most of the speakers who participated in this debate on election laws, called for dialogue, and that's fine. It's not a demagogue approach, let's go through the dialogue. However, it is obvious that one part of the opposition, now I am not going to qualify for an entire opposition that is not here, deliberately for certain political reasons, is destroying exactly what means post-cultivating democratic dialogue, or political debates, and, just as I said at the outset, democratic pluralism. Whether it's good or not for the Serbian state, it'll show time. In the end, those who have been identified for such a kind of struggle will also receive an assessment very quickly, an assessment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections, and then their potential and reputation will be measured for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By contrast, we are where we are, we are having a political debate, we are discussing everything that is in the interest of citizens, and that is the only way that the MPs representing the citizens of Serbia should act politically. I think the solutions to the proposed laws are very good. The descent of the census from 5% to 3% in any case contributes to all of this I said, but the descent of the census should follow the proportional and downsizing of the number and the minimum number of votes, i.e. the signatures for handing over the parliamentary lists when it comes to local elections, because we will come to a paradox, and this paradox implies that both parties will have to provide a much larger number of signatures than will achieve the number of votes in the elections, which is absurd. So regardless of whether there is a business possibility or not, I would ask the promoter to sort of correct this paradox and move on to a far more favourable democratic situation when it comes to the implementation of the election process at the local site. We have to stop it, so-called. Political trade, which was discussed by my distinguished colleague, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic, and I spoke about it in public hearing. So, these are anomalies that must certainly be avoided, because it will not be the last time that an MP from these benches goes to parliamentary lines in these benches, but unfortunately not to these parties sitting here, but to parties that have no single vote in the elections, they may not have even appeared in the elections, but will therefore be represented in parliament. Is that a democratic postulate and principle? It's not. As for the bill of law, Honorable colleague Komic, I will very briefly express the position of the SPS parliamentary group. I believe that laws cannot establish gender equality in full capacity, but one step can be taken towards that goal. Far more important than the law is the awareness of emancipation of women, it is far more important that respect for the opposite sex in terms of equality and equality should not be based on the matrix of women heroin or women who are recognized by social status, according to professional references, by talent and creative abilities. All this is possible in women and men, but far more important is the emancipation of women who are neither Clara Cetkin nor Margaret Thatcher, Mary Kiri, nor Sharon Stone. All the ones I've just listed and listed have only become visible by the fact of the circumstances, i.e. they have become what they are, charismatic in some way. But the question is, what do they differ from? ordinary women who are mothers, who are housewives, who are ordinary women, so as not to be persuasive and rude and serfs and hygienists and educators and teachers. Our awareness of the emancipation of that part of women must be at that level, that they too must be involved in all the social processes in which we are all involved together. I don't see a single problem in that, but I can't agree with the fact that, as it has just been pointed out, all women are completely free to engage in such democratic, political and all other processes. Unfortunately, they didn't. It's not because they don't know them the right way. They can't see them. It says that both in Sjenica and Tutina and in Novi Pazar, there are very few people of the opposite sex of my, or women involved in processes that relate to work the way we do it here, so for political action. The question is, why? Have they been given enough space? Is everything they have the right to be equal and even? I don't think it is, and in that sense, that consciousness must be far, far higher than what is unfortunately present in our Serbia. We in the SPS parliamentary group, taking into account the high degree of respect for our friends and ladies, indeed we honestly believe that this is the only way to establish what means the ideal of equality and equality, gender equality and equality. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70798	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70799	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, you have heard from the academics of Zukorlic that we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have supported all of this regarding the law with regard to these remarks concerning the parties of the national minorities, and in this respect we have submitted certain amendments. We look forward to the possibility of making a compromise and respecting our objections. In any case, any kind of promotion of the electoral process is extremely important, extremely important and contributes to a much more serious picture of all political life in the state of Serbia. We hope that these election changes will also affect the election process as correctly as possible. With that in mind, I would like to commend what RIK has done when it comes to training people in polling stations. It is very important, it is very important that we have people who have undergone specific training in the polling places themselves and who, hopefully, will prevent many of the abuses that occurred in the previous election processes from happening right in the election day. Of course, the experiences we carry from previous election cycles are not pleasant at all, especially when it comes to the elections and election commissions, both in the election venues themselves, and in certain situations and reactions of RIK to all those irregularities that could have been seen and seen in electoral venues, and to those brutal thefts in that unfortunate Tutin that were recorded and cameras, and that we never had an epilogue in the legal-formal sense of punishment or sanctioning or verifying and electoral theft and all those who participated in such an election process from those in the polling post itself to those in RIK who then allowed to end the electoral will of the citizens. We therefore hope that all this attention to the electoral laws and the electoral process itself will contribute to making such scenes as little as possible, that the election day itself will be as simple as possible, to make it less tense and that all those participating in the electoral process have equal opportunities to protect their votes or their voters. With this, all these changes are really important. As important as it is to change when it comes to electoral censorship, this change is also important when it comes to the parties of national communities or minorities, of course, along with all those fences that we have spoken in the previous days and with everything that has come and will come, we hope, on Saturday, when we consider amendments and during the vote, because it is very important that we really have transparency and that the authentic representatives of the national communities of national minorities are present in this Parliament. From the personal experience and experience of our community, we can say that this is precisely how different stereotypes that existed or existed are the legacy of previous periods of relation of minority and majority peoples and thus the individual and collective rights of each national community are realised. In fact, this is the way for the full integration of minority peoples and national communities into the entire social, political and any other system of the Republic of Serbia. The state of Serbia, when it comes to legal solutions, is, we can freely say, in a much more envious and much better position than the countries of the region. In fact, this shows concern for the presence and overall functioning of national communities in the bodies themselves, both executive and legislative authorities. That's why we are in a strong position to support all these changes, along with, of course, this agreement when it comes to political parties or entities' status when handing over electoral lists, i.e. to respect that it is merely an opinion or recommendation of national councils, and that the final decision is made by the Republic Election Commission. We also care about the participation of national communities, it is important to raise awareness of participation in political life and representatives of women's populations. That's why we don't have any fences and we really support this proposal. I would not agree with counterpart Jovanovic if women in Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica were not sufficiently represented in political life. They are, and they are, and they are very successful in political life and in every other way, and even successful in the economy itself, let's say in business and in any other sense. We have a special relationship of respect for women, and we really believe that a woman as a mother, as a wife, but also as a highly quality and responsible subject of social life must have a greater presence in all other forms, including political engagement of every nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70800	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70801	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Arsic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I consciously welcome my first colleagues today, as you are respected by my colleagues in the hall of the less-represented sex. If someone shows a big shot, they'll see that I'm right. So in practice, it should look like the gender equality we're talking about. The proposed law, which says - 40% of the women on the list, in the future elections, have caused everything but indifference and I think his victory is in the first place. I will fully agree with both the promoter and the president of the Assembly, because both of them, first of all, have explained in their political experience where the motives for this law are. I'll also agree that we're discussing 2.5% here, roughly, which is not much more, nor does anyone know what capital step, but small steps reach great goals. When it comes to the SPS, the head of the parliamentary group unequivocally said he would support all proposed laws. I have nothing to add. What I'm trying to say, first of all, as secretary of the Women's SPS Forum, is that I am absolutely proud of all my friends who are 30 years old, what is the tradition of the SPS, who contributed to the quality of work primarily by the Socialists in all the positions we've been to and in all the time periods behind us, and when we were absolute power, and when we were opposition, and when we were part of the government. It is true that the smallest number of women were at the moment the President of the Assembly spoke of earlier, and it is true that they were women who were motives for all of us who were then only in the construction of our political career that could be less or more successful, but certainly exists. I thank the promoter first of all for the steps she has made, I am talking about Gordana Komic, then I thank the president of the Assembly who recognized the motive, but I thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, who showed that when he talks about his militia, her and her thoughts. This is a law that will make tomorrow better for all our militias. I'm sorry if one of us didn't recognize this through that prism. I'm sorry if you measured it through a prism that you like or don't like. We have our faults, of course, let's say it's a little less, it's easier to negotiate with someone, but behind us come generations of our daughters and it can always happen that across the street someone who doesn't understand them quite. Clear their way so that they can speak louder, and they will come to an understanding. I fully agree, above all, with the left-wing position, that this bill can be completed by certain amendments that have been proposed and we will discuss this in detail. What's important to say today in principle is that this is not a woman's rebellion. We have only tried to earn in our time, in our term of office, from our colleagues and friends support to make us 2.5% higher. If we fail this exam because of the government's opinion or any of us individually, then I'm afraid that's the answer that we fell as a society. Certainly, as an SPS MP, I will vote in favour of all the proposed laws and I will not deal with the reduction of censorship due to time, my colleagues will talk about it. Djordje Milicevic spoke of it exhaustively and very precisely. I thank you for listening to me, and once again, I ask that we have wider access to this law than what is personal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70802	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. (Maria Obradovic: How much time is there? One minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70803	Thank you, Chairman. As the current co-ordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network, I would like to say that we have agreed on whether the Women's Parliamentary Network accepts these 40% amendments to the laws proposed by counterpart Gordana Comic, and we have in some way agreed. We know that we should not fight for our rights alone, that there are men who should support us in all this and that it is good to talk about our rights in such a way that we have these rights in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not just to talk about how many women have been killed this year, how much violence in families, etc. So, in some ways, I would like to encourage all MPs and all MPs to support the amendments to the legislation proposed by our colleague Gordana Komic and that even in the amendments, it may be clear which positions the genders should be less represented, because these are now all about women, but it does not mean that maybe one day that this change will change and that the less represented sex will be present in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in that percentage that really belongs to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70804	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70805	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that we will support this proposal to bring the electoral threshold down from 5% to 3%, and that is something that is very positive, very good, increases the clear representativeness of the MPs represented in the parliament itself, and that is already said here, something that the SDP has proposed in the framework of the change of the election law in 2013 and something that it stands for and something that has been defined before. Of course, in this way, I must stress that the largest parliamentary group, or the strongest party currently in the SNS, will have the greatest losses and that at least this reduction corresponds to it, but corresponds to the political life of Serbia and corresponds, I will tell democracy in this country which is very good. It is evident that the legislator's wish that national minorities also receive authentic representatives and be present in a larger number in the Assembly itself, and that is something that is obvious. So we will make sure that the amendments and the reasoned debate come up with an adequate solution and we find the best solution for the authentic, representative representatives of national minorities to enter parliament within the framework of the party proposing them. We're going to try to find a balance between the three main pillars, I mean a pillar that will make it possible, which is a national council, or national council, and their participation, RIK, but I think we can find important help in a special electoral sense. In terms of balance and in good control between these three pillars, we can provide national minorities with authenticity and I will tell the original representatives in this home. Finally, the SDP is indeed a promoter of female participation in political and social life. We will be very pleased to support the proposal that the women's participation quota in parliament rises from 30% to 40%, the proposal by Mrs. Komic, the SDP in Sandzačka, I can say that it is indeed a promoter of political activity for women, and if you look at the functions of both parties and those delegated at municipal levels in Novi Pazar in Sjenica and wherever it participates, or where the SDP is in power, that women really have a significant place and a percentage of certainly greater than 40%, as well as in this parliamentary group, so that it is a natural situation for SDP and we will warmly support it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70806	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70807	The Honorable Chairman, respected legislators, I will repeat on behalf of the SPS that we will support the proposed laws and that this is a good step towards creating what is better representativeness here represented in Parliament's political options. However, I will look back in my discussion on the question of determining the authenticity of a minority political party participating in the elections and under the draft law, the position of the political party of the national minority is decided by RIK which is not disputed by me, but on the basis of a certificate submitted by the voter of the National Council of the National Minority. I would remind the constitutional provision that the expression of nationality is free, no one is obliged to declare his nationality. The expression of nationality is free which means it belongs to the individual and is expressed, it is in the authority of the individual to say so, and no one is allowed to judge on behalf of that individual about his national identity. Of course, that's not by the logic of things, no one can do it, so they can't do the national council of the national minority, which has no political subjectivity for that kind of decision, and there's no formal jurisdiction in the National Minority Council Act. The national councils of the national minorities are four areas. Notification, culture, education, official use of language, and other national advice on having no instrument, so to speak, which they could judge on the authenticity of the political party of the national minority. They could probably give a certain opinion or confirmation that it stands in the bill, based on subjective criteria, but this is very controversial, to judge the authenticity of the party of the national minority. Therefore, there is an even bigger problem if it is about the coalition of the national minority parties, because, by the logic of things, it is likely that the opinion, i.e. the confirmation, should be given by all the national advice of those national minorities that make up a particular coalition. What happens if one national council of one of the minorities in the coalition does not receive that confirmation, or that consent. I would like to remind you that in selecting national councils of national minorities, candidates participating in the elections, i.e. on election lists, must be on a special voter's list. This is proof that they are authentic representatives of the national minority. So, criteria are special polling lists. Therefore, special voter lists can also be used in this case to confirm the authenticity of members of the national minority who are on the lists, although they cannot be requested, I think that all candidates on that list must be members of a particular national minority. On the other hand, respecting political freedom, then freedom of political organisation, freedom of opinion and belief, it is clear that, for example, a majority member can be a member of a minority party and represent its interests and that no one can forbid it. It somehow seems to me that the only criterion for identifying the authenticity of these parties that go to the elections is the programme and the statutes of the political party, a certain minority. By trying to prevent the abuse of the minority party's position, in order to reach the natural threshold in the process of determining the authenticity of the minority party, they can create new abuses and those who decide or give their opinion. So it's a very slippery terrain. With this discussion, I did not claim to give a final solution or to be express in my views regarding what was offered in the bill, but I simply want to have some of my dilemmas and some of my views that I'm thinking about, I need to share here with you so that we can come up with the best possible solution. In the end, I would just repeat the question of the number of signatures to support the lists that go to the elections. We will have in many local self-governments for local elections that it will take two-thirds or three-quarters of the voting body, which usually goes to elections to give that support, which is indeed very and unnatural for such a large number of people to be put into office, in one support process, etc., and that the next day those parties who have received that support through these signatures will not have so many votes. I therefore believe that the number of signatures should be reduced in proportion to what is a reduction in censorship, and in this context should be facilitated by these parties that will enter local parliaments, and of course also here in the republican parliament, because if a concession appears to be with a desire to allow for greater representation of political ideas in parliament here and in local parliaments, then not only through the reduction of censorship, but also through the number of signatures to support them should be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70808	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70809	Thank you. Today we have amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs and local elections. Surely in those two laws, the two biggest changes are the reduction of the census from 5% to 3%. I'm going to look at it from one, a little bit of another angle, or another environment, from the municipality, from which I come from, so I'm going to just specify a number of data and show it and make it clear what I want to say in the end, and that's the 2016 elections, the 2017 elections, in my municipality. In 2016, in my municipality, these elections were, of course, all elections except presidential ones. As for parliamentary elections, the percentage was 76% for SNS. As far as the local part is concerned, 80%, but 71%. In 2017, when only the presidential elections were held, 80% voted in my municipality for the president, namely Alexander Vukic, at 79% turnout. I want to say that if it is known that the absolute majority, two thirds or 67%, and this is about the elections that were in 2016 and 2017 and that the percent is mostly about 80%, the high turnout between 71% and 79%. It means there's one of the best results in this SNS community, if not the best. Furthermore, this is a municipality where the SNS had the first absolute power and something that hasn't happened so far, which is that we have at the local level 27 council members of 31 or 87%. On that list, simply that list was not made up of someone who had to leave the list because tomorrow they were going to do another job that was in conflict of interest and two places were automatically, the president and vice president had to come down from that list and two seats were boarded for some other reasons one committee left the municipality, one natural drain, etc. Practically, 31 councilmen passed that list. We will be at the first next session to be held these days in the municipality of Koceljev, for the first time in accordance with Article 48, I think that, the Law on Local Self-Government, will choose a committee member from the second list, because our list has been exhausted and it is probably the first time to apply in Serbia. When we look at it, when we look at today's proposal from the corner of such a municipality that has such a result in the elections, we, of course, mean that I, the convincing majority of our citizens in the Kocelje municipality, supports this proposal for the reason that there will be greater representation of all participants in the elections and their passing. But even though it's a 3% threshold and the 3% should be earned, I don't know how to look at it from another position, those who go to the polls and who are around the censors, because that should be earned by 3%. Furthermore, when you win 3% and enter the municipal or republican parliament or province, and I am primarily talking about this Assembly here, you have the opportunity to be very visible, to represent your proposals, to be present in the media, through the work of the tide, through the amendment, through the work of the committee, through the presence of the government, ministers, etc., in this Assembly, simply be visible enough to present your proposals and to eventually win a much larger number of votes tomorrow than that threshold of 3%. Here in reducing this censorship, from 5% to 3%, there must have been words here, the SNS loses the most, and within the SNS the most of those local self-governments, such as my municipality that have the best results within the SNS, but we support this proposal for already known reasons, and we believe that this is one of the biggest contributions to election conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70810	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70811	I thank the chairman. At the very beginning, I would refer to the remarks that could be heard even when the public debate was organised, that the electoral conditions do not change in the year of the election. I would say that's not the first time, as our president of the parliamentary group said. We also had this in 2000 that election conditions changed immediately before the elections, but this is about changing electoral conditions not changing in the sense that conditions are making it difficult for those who will go to the elections, but rather, the conditions for all those who intend to go to the elections are made easier. When it comes to the locals, although I come from the middle where it is in the past elections, all the electoral lists have crossed the 5% censorship, and this reduction of the electoral censorship to 3%, will certainly contribute to the fact that some coalitions do not have to be made, that individual parties and parties will be able to go to the elections on their own. When it comes to proposals for legislation concerning the participation of less than 40% of national MP Gordana Komic, which, as Parliament Speaker said, is one historic proposal in the sense that we have accepted the proposal to be on the agenda by the opposition, according to women's representation in parliament, our country is in 27th place, out of 190 ranked countries. When it comes to the index of gender equality, we have made significant progress, just because we have a wife at the head of the government, we have four ministers, we have almost 40% in this assembly of parliament, but what statistics indicate is that the woman does not have enough in the places where the executive authorities decide. There are 23 municipalities where there are no women members of the municipal council, and in 55 municipalities, and this electoral censorship which was that between every three candidates must be one less represented sex, we now have representation, less represented half below the legal minimum, probably because the legal provision does not provide that when the mandate, either for personal reasons, or because it goes to some function, that less represented sex, let's say, a woman or a man, they don't replace the same half person again, so we come out of the legal minimum. I can tell you that since I've been in the game, and since I was founded in the SPS, I've never had that problem of being a woman. In 2009, the party had me run to be the first wife to be president of the Vrbas District Assembly. Our president, Ivica Dacic, always trusted his party friends, placed them in significant places, from ministerial to vice-presidential. Here with me and the folk MPs who were vice president of the municipality, such as Daniela, Danica Bukvic was the director of the Institute of Nephropathy at 38 years of age and for this very reason, as our head of the parliamentary group stated, we will support this proposal to find a 40% less represented gender in this situation and this applies to women. But I'll tell you an interesting piece of information. In 2013, when the local elections in Vrbas were held, it was that, within our coalition made up of the Single Serbia, the United Pensioners Party, SVM, that three coalition partners delegated women. We came to the situation that in the first three places we had women and we had to further negotiate which of the women would withdraw, to respect the provision of the less represented sex. What I want to point out is that we all have to do our best if we vote this Saturday 40%, and I sincerely hope that what is the practical state of this House, almost 40% of the Members of Parliament, we will vote. For those of us who decide in the bar, when handing over the list in order to make sure that this amendment of the law doesn't lead to less women in the local parliaments in the future than we have so far, with this provision, that each third must be a woman. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70812	Thank you. Mrs Dubravka Filipovski's MP has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70813	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, the draft law on reducing censorship to 3% that has submitted to the SNS is a chance to improve the political system in Serbia, a chance to improve electoral conditions, but also for a large number of parties to participate in the electoral race and enter the local and republican parliament. Most importantly, the proposal for this law is, in my opinion, the key to political stability in Serbia, which in my opinion is the condition of all conditions. The bill and the laws passed before the end of this year, as regards improving electoral conditions in Serbia, actually represents everything the Alliance for Serbia has asked for. I would also like to point out that this bill is also in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to adopt a 3% electoral threshold in the Member States. Those who try to justify the boycott, have no consensus with each other and unfortunately hide behind parties or movements that have already decided to come out, such as, I must say, Dragan Gilas, hiding behind the Five Million Movement. That's what citizens need to know and that they need to be aware of before this election. I must say for this speaker that I fully agree with every sentence, with every spoken word by Professor Dragoljub Micunovic about the boycott of the election. Also, I agree with him and how he defined and gave Bosko Obradovic's profile, and I must say, by some politicians who boycott this election, there is a dangerous attempt to delegitise the elections, and I must say the legitimacy of the elections is determined by citizens in elections, not by any individual. Before I look back at my discussion of the proposal for a quota increase of 40% for the less-represented sex proposed by visiting counterpart Gordana Komic, I would like to point out that so far important results have been achieved in the field of gender equality in Serbia, which are recognised both in the higher representation of women, as women are now at many important leadership functions in the country and in the greater visibility and sensitivity of the entire society for the problems faced by women. I would like to remind you that in 1991, there were only three women in the Serbian Parliament, that by 2012, there were 20% of women in parliament, and that only after the adoption of the 33% quota, since 2012, there are more than 30% of us, so that today there are 37.4% of us. Strengthening gender equality is also an opportunity to step up with the most developed countries in the world and be part of modern social and economic development flows. That is why the bill to increase the quota to 40% less represented half of counterpart Gordana Komic is very important and represents a step further in democratisation of Serbia and in the fight for gender equality. The proposal for this law is also important because there are still resistances in our country to fully involve women in socio-economic and political flows and that there are individuals in Serbia who believe there are some male occupations. Therefore, all the results achieved, as well as this proposal for a quota increase to 40%, must be an incentive to encourage women to become more involved in Serbia's political life, to encourage solidarity, which in my opinion has not failed for all these years, but which can be more consistent and intense, to fight stereotypes, to encourage dialogue and that it is of great importance that we get a new law on gender equality. Of course, in the coming period there are many challenges for women's health, for women's education, for women's economic empowerment, for fighting violence, for encouraging women from the village, for people with disabilities, for more involvement in Serbia's political life, so all that our goals are for the Women's Parliamentary Network. In the end, I must point out that I agree with the proposals that individual colleagues and colleagues have made, that in the debate of this law in particular we must find a solution to the order of candidates of the less represented sex, for at least two reasons. The first reason is that we can't lose the positions we've already acquired. The second reason is that there is a certain mistrust in certain political parties, above all at the bar and the fewer for which, in my opinion, women cannot stand to be in the first five or six. It is something that we must do in the discussion of details and what the public and 51 and some % of women in Serbia expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70814	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70815	Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party has proposed amending and supplementing the law relating to the reduction of the censorship that should present the introduction of peace into a political life in the Republic of Serbia, because, as you see in the countries around and around, the street never brings any country well. What does that mean? This means that all our proposals, disagreements, different opinions should really be returned to the place where you can face these different views and come up with certain political decisions that will be in the interest of all Serbian citizens and, of course, the Serbian state itself. That is why we have the responsibility of all actors in the political life of the Republic of Serbia to make such decisions that will be in the interest of the future of our country, our country and our children. And what we're talking about today, in fact, about this law, is that we're witnessing that hate speech has become a daily voice in Serbia's political life, and that this hate speech never stops at just a speech, but then it crosses a certain line, so we've had a chance to see both motor saws in RTS and physical attacks on Parliament's president and physical attacks on journalists. So the street must not be a place where different political concepts will face. That is why the idea of SNS and Mr Vucic was, based on all those talks and dialogues where we agreed and as representatives of the party and with the NGO sector and with the opposition to talk, and with representatives of the European Parliament, is simply to return to where we can make our biggest contribution as political actors. The idea of boycotting this law, now, simply doesn't exist, because there's only fear of those who won't be able to get a 3 percent foothold in the people and that they won't be able to cross that 3% censorship at all and simply have their representatives in parliament. And it's simply a state of action, and especially the moment when the one movement "One of the Five Million" that was the bearer of the unifying of certain political opposition parties and carried those protests every Saturday that, of course, reduced and led to fewer and fewer citizens supporting such a kind of protest because it showed that this hate speech was just going towards crossing that line, now it's really in the most responsible way to approach this problem whether it goes to elections or not and decided to go to elections. After all, we are witnessing that even such movements that go to the elections get a number of votes, get certain representatives here in parliament, whose opinion you can really see citizens, after all, judge that opinion. I'll remind you, "Enough has been enough" is a movement that appeared in the elections and got a number of representatives here who, of course, subsequently split into certain political clubs and certain political parties. Some have remained as political movements, and some have gone into party formation and that is what Serbia's political life in fact shows that everything is going on, everything is changing, but the constant that remains is the Serbian Progressive Party with its policy, as one responsible party that should bear state policy and which, despite all the pressures it has and that it solves, simply remains consistent that it is really open to dialogue with all political actors in society. I will remind you that the political system defined by our Constitution represents and is based on both democracy and minority rights and social justice, but it is also based on what is very important, which is the electoral system itself, which should really give what is a real situation in society, to be reviewed through certain mandates of MPs here, who will represent the interests of these people who voted for them. So, we advocate that really programs, political programs come here to the Assembly and that we can talk about it on that basis. So, not individuals, not those who, like Dragan Dilas, buy certain MPs, become as certain political parties represented in parliament, not as Mr Jeremic, who also bought a party of Miroslav Aleksic to hear his political programmes here, which were otherwise programmes that they represented years ago, but now simply, who experienced a debacle with voters in the Republic of Serbia, but also experienced a debacle through the results of their foreign and internal policies. Because if it hadn't been for that, today we wouldn't have to talk about Kosovo in the EU, but would have discussed it in the United Nations and many other issues wouldn't have this kind of conversation with the international community. The electoral system in the Republic of Serbia until 1990 was a delegate system, the one we had the opportunity to hear about, within a party. Since 1990, it has been majority, so each election post has been chosen by the majority principle, which gets the most votes, it wins, or, if there is a second round, if it doesn't reach 50%, then the one with more votes wins. Since 1993, we have nine electoral units in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a 5% censorship. In 1997, we have 29 electoral units, also with the same 5% and 2007 censorship, we have one electoral unit, as Serbia, with also a 5% censorship. Otherwise, in 2015, CESID did one survey, together with USAID, where they otherwise proposed a change in the electoral system, where they showed that if, for example, the elections were observed in 1993, where there were nine electoral units with a 5% census, and that Serbia was one electoral unit, for the results of the elections, the results of parliamentary representatives were completely different. This applies to those from 1997 and 2007. So, what do you get from certain mathematical analysis? You get that the method of distribution of candidates affects the composition of parliament directly. By doing so, you get completely different political miles of representatives in parliament. With this 5% censorship, 1.5 million people, voters, have been found to lose their representatives in parliament because they cannot reach that 5% price. In today's situation when you look at research, you can see that the only two parties that are safely crossing the censorship are the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia. In fact, we're creating a major obstacle to social democratisation and we'd be in trouble again if someone were to talk about how simply the SNS didn't want to democratisation society and didn't want to hear different opinions. That's why we agreed to participate in the dialogue this summer. That is why we are through this dialogue, although the Alliance for Serbia has escaped immediately from these negotiations, because it has seen that there is an open political will and a desire to really democratisation society, to improve the electoral system itself. What are the results of this dialogue? First of all, the conclusions of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which, with four basic conclusions, have improved the work of the RIK itself. The four conclusions are that training of the instructors themselves to continue training the election committees must be before the elections. And it's already over by the Republic Election Commission. She has trained 539 instructors who will continue to work with people on the electoral board, to allow access to all interested entities to see both election material and records from polling stations and after elections and, ultimately, to allow certain procedures to define exactly what the access of domestic and foreign observers will look like. So, both the NGO sector and those international observers who come from different international organisations to attend this election. Thus, we have raised the scale when we are even talking about the system in which the election process itself is going on, especially in that day, but what else did we get as a result of these negotiations? So, the amendment to the four laws that we already had here in parliament, which we've actually stepped in the way of so-called. "functionary" limited the "functionary" campaign, we set out to use public funds at the time of the campaign, which simply refers to certain officials in certain places and gave us the opportunity to strengthen the role of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is essentially the most important agency and the most important institution at the time of the elections and after the elections. That's why he says that both Mr. Alexander Vucic and the SNS have made a big, democratic step when we talk about improving this process itself and bringing political life back to where it really belongs. The reduction of censorship, by the way, provides a great opportunity for a large number of political parties, movements, to participate in this process itself, and simply to have an electoral system which, otherwise, we have inherited from 5% now change exactly as is simply the characteristic of all developed countries. I'll just remind you that part of the opposition that wants to call for a boycott of Serbian citizens shows that it wants to bring down certain legitimacy of the elections itself through turnout. I'll tell you one more thing, turnout, when you look at developed countries within the EU, shows, let's say, in figures that, when the elections for the European Parliament in 2014, sometime up to 16 hours, the turnout in Germany was only 24%, in France, at 19%, in Hungary, at Malta, at 72%. So what percentage do you have today, let's say, in 2017 and 2018, it's slightly increased by 5% when we talk about European countries. When we talk about Serbia's turnout in 1997, when DS and DSS called for a boycott, turnout was 57.4%. When some changes in government occurred in 2000, in terms of taking over DOS compared to the previous regime, the turnout was 72%. In 2014 turnout was 53%, 2016 56%, 2017 55%. What does this tell us? This tells us that Serbian citizens are very responsible and want to participate in Serbia's political life, they want to give their own court on how political parties, movements, carriers of any political programme simply behave on the political scene of Serbia and who they trust will be able to protect their interests in the future. This is very important for us and I think that we are simply representatives of all citizens of Serbia, since Serbia is one electoral unit, that politics is not mathematics, as Mr Aleksandar Vukic often says. This is precisely why it is not mathematics because only with the programme and based on the results you have achieved and based on what the plan is for the future, you can get the trust of the citizens of Serbia and are the only way to participate in all elections. Simply, even when you have no support for over 50% of the vote from Serbian citizens, you should ask yourself why, and you should always fight with your critical attitude for the interest of Serbian citizens. As for Mrs Comic's proposal, which increases the percentage of women's participation in political life, I personally think that the proposal is not sufficiently defined, incomplete and my advice is to consider the amendments submitted by colleagues, because it is the only way you will be able to really protect and improve the relationship, in terms of women's participation in politics, to be better than the current proposal and solution. I don't want to talk about it anymore. I think that in the voting day we will surely support this proposal that we had both from Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Comic. It is important to say in the end that the government may have adopted such an opinion by looking at certain legal norms, but Mr Aleksandar Vukic said that as a congregation majority we would also support Mrs Comic's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70816	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70817	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With only a few minutes left for my parliamentary group, I will look back on the bills submitted by my colleague Gordana Komic, which concerns the quota, the quota we are talking about today, the quota that Gordana herself mentioned, i.e. characterized as a social category. I would look back at the beginning of what Gordana said, and I was remembered, that these quotas are necessary, because it is the society of centuries that defies nature, the one that, as a jargonically said, is fiftti – fiftti. The Republic of Serbia, at least statistics say, has a slightly higher percentage of women compared to men in the population, and I would like to live in society and in a country where we are equally represented, not only in politics, but in all areas of social life. What anyone thinks intimately and what arguments they use is really a matter of personal perception and I wouldn't be dealing with it today. Every structural and change and break of stereotypes and every fight against prejudice requires mutual respect and understanding and dialogue. That is exactly what this intervention has produced in the legal form that counterpart Gordana Komic has submitted. It's not just a number, it's an attitude. That attitude shows the state of personal consciousness and the willingness to change society together and to change social awareness. The way, topics and approach, when it comes to women, not only in politics, but in other social areas, are slightly different, in fact, they are different from men's approaches and it's completely natural, acceptable and normal. It is good for women to change the environment, change the context, change society with their active participation. How do women lead politics? Here, it shows today's debate, because it is the result of someone's idea, needs, dialogue and readiness and co-worker Gordana Komic and Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. That is why today's debate, at least for me, one of the most pleasant discussions that, since 2012, I have had the opportunity to lead this House. I believe I'm out of time. I see, Mr. Arsic, you're smiling. In any case, support and bill proposals proposed by a respected colleague, Martinovic. I hope, not to hope, but as a parliamentary group, we will actively participate in the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70818	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70819	I thank you, Chairman. As president of the United Peasant Party, as an MP here in the Assembly, elected from the SNS list, as a man coming from a small community, from the middle that has shown that it should be done, the Srljig municipality is one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, and this municipality is run by committees and policies run by the United Peasant Party, we voted there, supported by women to lead the municipality. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a colleague who spoke before me, Stefana Miladanovic, is a witness and we have spoken several times and we will always say that we must give our women more support, not only in the Assembly, but also in the field, that more local self-government, more cities lead our women. Women were always stronger than us men. This was also shown in the municipality of Svrljig, because Jelena Trifunović runs the municipality and is much stronger and better than me. Once again, I would like to thank Mr. Martinovic, who has suggested that the censorship be reduced from 5% to 3% for all of us. I'm the president of a small party, but a party that's close to 50 and some committees. I am sure that in the coming period, we will have the opportunity to have a greater number of MPs here in Parliament representing the interest of small communities, the interest of the village, the interest of agriculture and the interest of everything there is. I am sure that in the next period, after these elections, we will have a number of MPs who will be people living in small areas, as I am in Srlig, but on the other hand we expect that after the 2020 elections, as President Vukic himself said - we will always have to put support in the first plan and support our women. A woman can't be just a number and that 40%, but it has to be real. Dear colleague Komic, I support your proposals, because it is necessary, and it would be good to see how women are supported in the field. I'd like to invite my fellow MPs to see what it's like in Srlig where women run the municipality. We are a poor municipality, but a municipality that has a soul, a heart, and that's all because women run a municipality. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70820	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70821	Thank you. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on People's MPs and the Law on Local Elections concern two key things. The first is the reduction of the censorship from 5% to 3% and the second is the status of the national minority parties in the election process. So, I'll explain the position on both changes, the SDPS stance on Rasim Ljajic. When it comes to lowering the census from 5% to 3%, the SDPS supports this proposed change for several reasons. First, since 2007, SDPS has been pushing for a 3% census in one local election, ahead of one local election in 2007, the censorship rose from 3% to 5%. The second reason why we support unequivocally and without any dilemma of census descent is that this solution opens up the possibility of participation as many parties as possible in the electoral process, and, on the other hand, motivates citizens to vote in the largest number of parties that support without fear that their votes will be cast out, as they say. In fact, the number of these scattered votes will be far less, from which the damage, as simple mathematics has said, will be suffered by the country's largest political party, the parliamentary majority bearer and the bearer of our coalition or SNS, because the donor's voice systems are being allocated to the parties who crossed the censorship and that is compared to the number of votes won by the parties and the list individually. So there's no dilemma that no argument against reducing the censorship from 5% to 3% is good and not standing. It simply facilitates the electoral process, increases Parliament's representativeness and strengthens naturally pluralism in Serbia. When it comes, however, to the second proposed amendment concerning the status of national minority parties in the electoral process, we have certain issues and dilemmas. Namely, our question is - is the proposed solution truly preventing and eliminating the abuses that occur when it comes to the parties of national minorities? Clearly, it is also unequivocally clear that it is also here that the proposal is to fully eliminate and prevent abuses, to appear in some elections by falsely representing themselves as parties of national minorities, whose goal is in fact only to cheat the system, to use positive regulations for the parties of national minorities, and thus fraud and citizens of Serbia. Therefore, unequivocally supporting the intention and motive of the promoter to prevent any kind of abuse when it comes to the parties of national minorities. However, our thinking and the question applies in a way that we can actually do this in a proposed way, or maybe this is how we propose to open up an additional space for abuses, which is not our intention and is not good at all and is not in the interest of any party of the national minority, the true party of the national minority, or the national council of the national minorities. I will hurry to explain that the proposed solution gives jurisdiction to the advice of national minorities to issue a certificate to the parties of national minorities, which is not within the jurisdiction of the national councils of national minorities under the law governing their work. On the other hand, we do not know exactly how the national councils of national minorities will check and determine whether the party of national minorities is indeed aimed at protecting the rights of national minorities, especially if it is, for example, a party of national minorities. It is about a party to register as a party to the national minority right before the elections. So, she hasn't even had a chance to live in practice yet so we can see whether her activity in practice is aimed at protecting national rights or not. That is why this is a rather confusing solution, and I fear that it will not deprive us of our intention to prevent abuses by opening up a space for new abuses that can be far more extensive and long-term and affecting the work of the national councils themselves of national minorities in the future. (President: I thank you. ) Perhaps the solution should be sought in line with the Law on political parties, which clearly stipulates that the parties of national minorities as such are registered in the register of political parties. So, on the one hand and the National Minority Council Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70822	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70823	Today, we could hear from representatives of the regimes of different statements, points of view, and perhaps even say a part of the reasoning of this proposal. The first thing I would refer to is a bit of a strange reaction by MP Maja Gojkovic, who commented on the presentation of Professor Vojislav Seselj, a sort of astonishment that the SRS and its leader are supporting women on the political scene of Serbia, and on the other hand, she herself said that she was one of the first MPs in the Assembly in 1990 before the SRS and immediately by forming the SRS presidency and leadership as its vice president, if we see it, as a woman. It really remains a bit strange that kind of comment, but good. What was particularly interesting to me was that when the ruling majority MPs explained this proposal, they explained in theory, everything they said, I would indeed personally sign and Mr Martinovic said yesterday, I will quote it, that simply in Serbia politics is not a battle of life and death, and that is absolutely true. But the same thing is said that the citizens of Serbia, the question is raised -- what has the SNS done in Serbia's democratic and parliamentary life for the past eight years, not to be exactly how the situation is right now if we are here, and I as a national MP, witnesses of the daily satanization of opposition MPs, the satanization of political opponents? The question arises: is this a criterion, if by changing the law from 5% to 3%, we are introducing democracy in the Assembly, and on the other hand, only because of the personal animosity of the presidents daily punishing the MPs of the opposition, with MPs of the ruling majority being allowed to violate the Rules of Procedure daily and using a kind of inappropriate vocabulary, or dictionary. On the other hand, MPs of the opposition are punished only when someone gets distracted because they don't want to hear a fact that doesn't suit him, and yet for these four years, one of the chairmans, who has been delegated by the SRS, Mrs. Verica Radeta, again, a woman, unlike the representatives of the ruling majority and vice presidents who led, has shown what democracy in this room means, which means when there is no, when personal animosity and vanity is thrown out, and when a serious policy debate is allowed without it, and by showing which political option it belongs, you have shown only this great defeat. On the other hand, Mrs Tomic said – here is the good will of SNS and Aleksandra Vukic because if she did not lower the censorship threshold from five to 3% after the next elections only two lists of this ruling cross the censorship and she says they do not want to be an obstacle to the democratisation of society. Then another question arises again for a reason – how did this democracy disappear and who is to blame for this democracy's disappearance? Is it because today on the ground, we have only two types of media representatives where there is no difference between these two types of media, on the one hand, the regimeal ones where representatives of the ruling majority of 24 appear continuously and constantly satanicize representatives of other political options that are not with them in the coalition or, on the other hand, N1 and similar televisions and some of their print media that work the same and show again that journalism in Serbia is dead because objectivity does not exist? Then the question arises – what has been done in this field for these eight years and who has actually contributed to the fact that democratisation in society does not exist next to, of course, public behaviour in the Parliament of Members of the ruling majority? Because while criticising those who are not in the hall today, I have the impression that they are praying to stop the boycott, it should remind the citizens of Serbia that the ruling party has just taken over all the mechanisms of the Democratic Party and all these "yellow" parties, first of all, and first of all, if we take this as a Rules of Procedure, who personally criticised them in this room from 2008 to 2012, and then when they came to power, all of these mechanisms of the Democratic Party, how to kill politically, of course or otherwise, I will not say literally, political opponents, all of the mechanisms, all of this time used. What must have been the condemnation of the ruling majority and to say, and that is the insolence and insolence of those who believe that whatever they do will remain unpunished, and behind which are MPs of the ruling majority, is also the latest example of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who, while on one side here, SNS MPs say that the executive government must do its part of the work, that there must not be any influence by other people, we have a situation that Zorana Mihajlovic, sends an official vehicle to the arrested Poledica, who is being released from custody, welcomes him and loves him and thus sends...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70824	My colleague Damjanović, please, on election law. Please remind you, this is a united debate of the Law on the selection of MPs and the Law on Local Elections, so please adapt your discussion to the points discussed. Go ahead, if you like, but please do the agenda points. Do you want to continue the discussion? Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70825	It is important to me that the citizens of Serbia understand what the subject is. What you don't understand is your business. Also, another piece of evidence that it is a very strange statement and the president of the state, which says the proposal to reduce the censorship threshold will bring life back to parliament, I ask again the question – and who has driven this life out of parliament? What does it say – there must be greater democracy in Parliament itself? How can there be a greater democracy if just the ruling regime and television like, here's the national RTS, there's no, let's say at this point there's an interruption, there's no sitting, for all these years, lifted round tables that have just served that we who represent the people, we face our views. Who's got a problem with round tables? Do you think, for you from the ruling majority, that it is enough to organise the format of the “Requester”, once in x time and mandatory seconds of five, 10, 15 in the campaign, to say – here, now is democracy and people can choose between policies? No, the moment you shut down public TV duels, it's just impossible, because, for example, just before then, you have the chairman who breaks up the opposition's half sentence. The question arises – what is your goal? You shouldn't be the target then, as a colleague from Koceljeva told you, 72 and 82%. You should be the target 100%. If you think it's a good thing that in the early elections in four municipalities held last year, you hired all state mechanisms to win 70% of the votes everywhere, where factory directors called and forced employees to vote for the ruling party and directly in front of TV, then there's no need to talk about anything. There's no need for 3%, no need for 1%. Then it's enough to run for only you and say as Mr. Koceljeva said, wait for your entire list to pass, so whoever crossed 3% to wait, maybe put one of their representatives on it. Do you think that's how you're going to develop municipalities, cities and states? Absolutely not, and time will tell. You are referring to organized democracies, so take gentlemen an example of the Bundestag, what is the difference in the percentages of the vote in that Bundestag that you are so invited to, between the first one, the second and the third one? How long has it been? The key things are, that democracy would be and that any government would do well, every government should have a strong opposition, but there can be no strong opposition, if you shut down the opposition completely all the media and every level of struggle needed to reach the voters. What scares me is that this bill only treats the consequences of that, which very few lists have some greater support in the people because of what you've done on the ground for all these years. This has contributed to the creation of non-principle coalitions since the year 2000 of DOS, which has only been transformed into SNS, as these DOS parasites, these small parties are now SNS parasites, the ruling party. Then you should have put a censorship threshold for pre-election coalitions in this proposal. If you are 15 parties you hired, DOS party, then for two parties censorship 7%, for three 9%, for more than five 15, 20, 30% to not listen today to representatives of minor parties who never went to the polls, to tell us today whether this proposal is good or not. Here you go, gentlemen. Go to the polls on your own. The SRS always came out on its own. That's what we should be discussing. What was supposed to be discussed through these laws is what he talked about Vojislav Seselj, which is what the SRS showed, the electoral list, the parliamentary club, and that's it. We have not deceived the citizens. Today there are a dozen parliamentary groups, independent MPs, imaginary MP groups, because they have shown that sometimes elections should not be. There is enough to come someone who will buy a number of MPs and form parliamentary groups. If you want democracy, if you want a real political scene and a stable political society, then you have to accept political responsibility for everything you've done these eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70826	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70827	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the key question is who is today in Serbia against these proposals we are discussing today? Who today in Serbia is against the announcement of a reduction in censorship from 5% to 3%? Only those who are against the idea of further strengthening the role of the National Assembly in Serbia's political life. Only those who are against parliament being a place where all relevant actors will be represented and have the opportunity to make their views known. Only those who are opposed to honouring Serbia's political scene. Only those who oppose the return of politics to parliament where it belongs, as a central political institution in Serbia. Only those who are against further motivation for national minorities to participate in Serbia's political life, but also to prevent a number of abuses in this regard. In one word, it is against this proposal that those who do not want Serbia to be arranged, a successful and decent country. Against this proposal are those who want to come to power on the street. It is against this proposal that those who desire the burning of buildings and violent entry into institutions. Against this proposal are those who call upon various bloodsheds and the violent takeover of power. Against this proposal are those who have and cultivate only hate speech, physical violence, wearing hangers and motor saws in their political functioning. This proposal is against those who have declared a boycott of the election, because they know they can't even transfer 3%. The proposal is against those who have declared a boycott of parliament and boycott parliament, but are not boycotting parliamentary salaries. Against this proposal, those who have temporarily destroyed Serbia and morally destroyed Serbia and destroyed hope that it can ever be better. The proposal is against Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Lutovac and everyone else in the sad Alliance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70828	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. He's not here. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70829	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let us remind ourselves of the beginning of this call, so since 2016, the SRS has proposed some solutions to improve parliamentary life and to change the Rules of Procedure that should bring more equality into the Assembly and improve the position of the opposition in the National Assembly, which should be valuable for every democracy. Of course, you were deaf and four years on that proposal. You were saying that it wasn't you who brought it, it was the former government, as if you were convinced that once the law was passed it couldn't be changed and that it was true for all time, because at that point, it was you. At this point, something like that fits, that you can interrupt everyone, that you can punish the MPs, that you can do what comes to your mind. It's just one of our anomalies. The second thing, we had one situation that the government in the National Assembly was dealing with the obstruction of parliament in a manner where 500 or 700 or 1,000 identical amendments would be submitted by a large number of MPs of power, for which the ruling majority would not vote afterwards. So that's what happened in Serbia and then we're talking about democracy. Position, i.e. The situation in the media is such that the RTS paid by all Serbian citizens by subscription, which is abnormally, which is financed extensively from Serbia's budget, cultivates some variety of political parties and diversity, so that on RTS we can also see Vukic, and Vulin, and Dacic, and Zoran Mihajlovic, therefore, is not one-minded, there are more people who can appear on that television. But there was often no place for the opposition, especially for the SRS, which in this meeting is the largest opposition party and individually after the SNS and the biggest party with 22 mandates, and there were places for imaginary parties that do not exist, which exist only on paper and those that were created by stealing the mandate. So, some who have been elected on one election list, specifically the electoral list – Saša Radulovic, Enough or whatever, have stolen the election list's mandates, failed citizens' legitimacy, i.e. Citizens who have given legitimacy to the very list of whatever it is, and whatever I think of it, and formed after another party with stolen mandates, you gave them seats by boards of assembly, and they go public and say – our new party considers this, our new party considers it. It became normal in Serbia. That may have reminded you of your roots, so you may have tolerated it, but it is not normal for our democracy. We had multiple agenda points connected into one, including that nebulise when we discussed the budget together with 69 points of the agenda. That only changed when the European Commission's report arrived. So when the European Commission noticed that there was something missing in the Serbian Parliament, that something was wrong, then you just saw the problem, and on our concerns, the ones you should listen to long before any international instance, you were deaf. Now we're trying, i.e. The government is trying to make some microcry, as if some things have changed in Serbia for the better, and basically everything remains the same. I will also remind you that in 2017, during the presidential elections, one candidate for president of Serbia had 85% of the media space, and all the other candidates had 15% together. These are facts and it is an election atmosphere in Serbia. The issue of electoral censorship from 5% to 3% is positive in terms of representing more parts of citizens in the National Assembly, greater representation and democracy, but it is nowhere near the basic problems we have. First of all, it must not be allowed for the MP elected from a single list to change the party with all its mandate, which after that brings it to the dowry. It's stealing. It's just like if you stole a wallet from someone's pocket, it doesn't make any difference. It can't be allowed and it's a much bigger problem than the question of censorship. Some parties will cross the censorship, some parties will not and will move on. But legalizing immorality in politics should probably change first, which is stealing a mandate. We've had MPs who've changed the parties more than twice in this session, and that's perfectly normal, no moral condemnation, no social condemnation, that's acceptable. We are under the influence, as every branch of government in Serbia is heavily influenced by so-called. European institutions or bodies of the EU, we have also suspended the Constitution of Serbia, which says the MP can put the party's mandate at its disposal. We have, because of some group of hohstapplers from the Venice Commission, ignored it and the Constitutional Court has brought a different opinion, as if his opinion is more important than the Constitution's norm. It's an abnormal situation in Serbia. A lot of things happened during the stolen SRS mandates in 2008 under the influence of the Venice Commission. I remind you, the Venice Commission is considered to be an authority only for countries that are not completely sovereign, such as Serbia. We have not yet seen that from the Venice Commission they have made any objections to Germany, France, Austria or any other European country, although their political life and division of government have at all many similarities with Serbian, theoretical and so on. Normative. But they're in charge of Serbia, they can't be in charge in Germany either. What Jupiter is allowed to do, that's not allowed by the Vole. That's our situation. The same Venice Commission, we have seen, in principle, agreed with an unconstitutional, anti-civilisation law in Montenegro, for example, which should nationalise the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, immovableity, does not apply to them even to the division of state and church, it is a secular state, not even the integrity of private property, their only interest applies. The Venice Commission, like any other EU-sponsored institution, benefits countries that are not EU members and some less weak countries as an experimental polygon. Let's see what happens if we put a quota for so much and so much into Serbia or if we legalize the theft of mandates or anything else, not because it's some kind of civilization progress, why don't we say so. We have indeed had for these four years many negative things in our parliamentary life and in the election atmosphere at all. We've had re-elections, i.e. elections for local parliaments that were not on a regular basis. In 2018, in the municipalities of Luciani, Kula, Doljevac and Kladovo, where we saw, for example, that in Doljevac, for example, 75% of the citizens who went out, 85 votes were received by the ruling SNS party, and the other two lists that cross the censors also belong to the SPS-JS authorities. So, 96% won power in the Doljevac elections. Does anyone think it's normal and it's a fair election game where participants are equal? Well, it's not. The Serbian radio television, paid by all Serbian citizens, absolutely does not respect the principle of the Serbian parliament's representation and no one notices it. You'd be full of mouths if you weren't on RTS, but since you're the only one present then you don't have a problem with such an editorial policy. I'll remind you, that's what the SNS voters pay for, and the SRS voters and DS voters and voters of all the parties in that television, and there they only have the exclusive right to show up forwarders or these other parties that have just arisen, which have no legitimacy, etc. Secondly, as it is possible for a list of voters to win a number of votes, such as the list Aleksandar Vucic – Serbia wins, it seems to me that the SNS electoral list was called, after which five, six, seven or ten parliamentary clubs are formed. And now some MP club is thinking this, some of them are thinking that. No one voted for them, they walked alongside a large party, along with a popular man, and thus managed to enter the National Assembly and then they appeared in public as some relevant factors to present their opinion. It's something crazy. In the election, legitimacy gets a political programme, a political idea, and then it's normal if that coalition wins so much and so much, it's one of the monolitarian MPs, which aims to implement what he said in the campaign, and not to satisfy the petty interests of other political parties that were in the big coalition, and then smaller parliamentary clubs are formed. That's insane. So it's not censorship our biggest problem, even though it's positive for its change. If the government in Serbia really wants to deal with sensitive and real problems for our political life in general, it needs to send a clear message that immoral behaviour, in terms of stealing the mandate, must not be tolerated in the National Assembly, and not play with citizens' legitimacy, the trust that citizens show for any list, any leader, by taking part in the post-election process, forming other parliamentary groups and thus brutally playing the trust of Serbian citizens. Also, the media image in Serbia is scandalous, very little space, necessarily the opposite opinion, but an opinion that does not come from power, it is absolutely true for all political parties and that is what we should try to change if we are really interested in improving electoral conditions and political life. Not getting into the motives of why this is now being brought, but sometimes something needs to be done in the general interest, not just in the interest of the political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70830	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing today two electoral laws that I can say have raised a very large public debate, especially in front of representatives of political parties who mostly do not want to participate in the upcoming parliamentary and local elections, and we will talk a little later about whether this is really true and what their motives are. What I must point out is that SNS and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, have been trying for months to create much better electoral conditions for all participants in the election campaign than it was before the SNS came to power. I can say that even before these laws we changed in December, the electoral conditions in Serbia were much better than they were in 2008 and 2012. With amendments and amendments to the law, these electoral conditions are improving, but with this current amendment of electoral laws, the Law on Local Elections and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, democracy in society is increasing. What is really ugly and what we hear constantly in the public is that the former regime, meaning, former authorities in the Republic of Serbia, whether local, whether republican, claim that SNS and the ruling majority are changing the electoral system. As far as I know, there are several types of electoral systems. One was largely one-circular, the other election system is the two-circular majority, the third electoral system is proportional as we have today, the fourth electoral system is mixed, as it is on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Well, let us one of those who claim to change the electoral system found in these changes and additions to any provision that affects the elections held in the Republic of Serbia in a few months, be changed as an electoral system. Here, find me one of the only provisions. However, I suppose in this campaign, we have various theorists, various failed politicians, and I can also say that some politicians with certain amnesias, i.e. memory loss. There, Vladimir Goati says it is part of an election process that is very important that should not be changed in days and months, even the year ahead when elections are held. To this it seems to me that Bojan Klachar in front of CESID who says, watch this, that no previous analysis, etc., will not be the same rules for all actors because you may have some parties who have made the 5% strategy and that they have wasted the funds needlessly, says CESID Klačar. Well, people, we're not changing the census from 5% to 10%, but the census decreases from 5% to 3%, that's the reverse process. If he was spending money, and it seems to me that all of those in the former regime or who supported the former regime were just money in mind, then it's a very serious problem. If he's making a 5% strategy, and he's reducing the censorship to 3%, well, better yet, he's relieved. What he was inaccessible now can be easier to come by and skip that censorship. Did he throw the money away? Well, it's not. If he was building a 5% strategy and has a political potential for 5%, he will win 5% of the mandate. He's not the only one who wants to get into parliament. But that's when people who are from the street or politicians who are from the former regime and who are used to other values then it's called changes in the electoral system and introduction into dictatorship. Let's talk about what a dictatorship is. The dictatorship is, I guess, when you don't have legitimately and legally elected authority. Here we have in our recent past an example of such a dictatorship. Not that far. Let's just go back about ten years. When Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic passed away in 2007, as the mayor was then elected directly to the elections and that within 30 days of the mayor's death, and it is known that he cannot and under what conditions he cannot perform his duty, they are obliged to discuss and hold elections. The president of parliament was then Oliver Dulic, the president of the Republic of Serbia was Boris Tadic, some minister was Dragan Dilas. Have these elections ever been called and held for mayor of Belgrade? They never did. Gilas should not then come out directly, although he was in power, to face Alexander Vukic directly who was then mayoral candidate. That's why Oliver Dulic didn't call the election, we waited half a year for the election law to change, and another half a year for elections to be discussed under the new electoral law, so that this same Gilas, who is now calling for a boycott, would come to power, not when conditions for the vote were met but changed the law to become mayor of Belgrade. Now he invites citizens to a boycott, the one who was not allowed to go to the polls, the one who did not call the election, the one who did not hold the election. Does that make any sense? Now he has a problem with one, let me say, technical change in the law itself that will allow perhaps political parties that have potential to enter our parliament. Whether they trust citizens who get to take advantage of or not, that is their problem, their adherence to the electoral programme and their behaviour in parliament. I guess we should allow as many parties as possible to participate in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. Or, as some say, major political parties decide who will be all-parliamentary. Well, here's the big political party about not deciding anymore. Here, so that those parties who can go to the election after a new censorship can skip that censorship, enter parliament, do not depend more on the big parties. That's what the CRTE guys will tell you. And not to list all the nonsense I've been listening to. What's the problem here? I'm listening to that Alexic guy today, he's not a happy guy, he used to take good money while he ran a local self-government in Tristenik how we want these laws to beat the boycott and how it's impossible. We're not going to beat any boycott. We are going to the elections to check what citizens think of the SNS and all other political parties that will appear in these elections. Some might say the same about those who don't go to the polls, but we need to separate some things and ask why. One of the reasons is this, my colleague Martinovic said, that Dragan Djilas has more companies to deal with, that one Alliance for Serbia, these boycott elections, the other are "one of five million", they go to the polls. That's where I have to agree with my colleague Martinovic, the exact expression he gave. The company. The political party is a political organisation, which by character is a non-profit and fund that collects, collects exclusively for internal functioning and preparations for elections. What's a company? The company is a company whose only goal is to gain profits. We can guess about it one way or another, as anyone wants, but Dragan Gilas proved to be the most important firm to him, because he increased his wealth while he was the first man in the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has more money in its budget than any ministry in the Republic of Serbia. Then we should not be surprised that the man was very capable, so he earned close to 650m euros in four years, while he ran the company, which he thought was private and was called Belgrade. So they view Serbia as the private firm Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Miskovic, Solak, not to add any further. To them, people, Serbia is a private company where they need to be even richer and even more powerful, and that is why they will not go to elections, because, as in 2007, when they did not call the elections, they think they should come to power by burning this Assembly again, which will break Belgrade again, which will destroy Serbia again, which will again be someone else's children to push into conflict with police and others who are in charge of security because they are so used to it. And they don't care about anything but profits. When they saw the kind of Serbia they left behind, remember, and they didn't fight much for power and for Serbia. Hey, guys, the state is in trouble, there's no money, it's going down, you guys handle it. As Serbia became financially stronger, more independent, as more responsible people, led by Alexander Vukic, began to lead, everything changed at the moment. Now, there's money in Serbia again. Let's get that money back, like we did six or seven years ago, put it in our pockets, make us richer and Serbia even poorer. But since they can no longer win anyone's election, they need to come to power from the street, by placing them in some temporary governments, in some temporary bodies, by suspending the elections, as they suspended in 2007. And so they rule Serbia. What's it called? The dictatorship. It's no different. It's an alternative to these laws that are electoral. The dictatorship that Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic want to conduct. Nothing more. That, without any control, they're robbing all of this that's been happening in the last few years with the severe pain of all, and the citizens of Serbia, all of the authorities, gathered together, to put it back in their pockets. These laws are also proof that the SNS wants as many political parties to participate in political life. Let them oppose us their programs. Let the former regime, if it may, oppose our results, and we will give them our results. And let the citizens decide. What citizens decide in the elections, we will respect, unlike Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Miskovic, Šolak and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70832	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go. Tatiana Macura gave up. Please, the next MP is Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70833	Today we're talking about this block of election laws, and somehow with a lot more Elena, I was at the very beginning, when we were moving, and all the time listening to colleagues and watching how many of us we were in the O.R., I kind of fell into enthusiasm. In fact, I feel bad, because I expected many more fellow Members, whether they belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition. The media does not seem to be following closely enough what is happening in Serbia's parliament. What was particularly surprising to me is that, except in one daily list, we could not hear about the details of Mrs. Komic's bill, because it brings a major political change to our electoral laws, especially on our political scene. Often most of the public is unaware of the changes that await us. Only a small number of people who make political decisions are aware of the effects of what you put on paper at some point. I think it's good to talk about the importance of the law, but for me, in my presentation, I'm going to devote a lot more time to the laws that have been proposed by the SNS, specifically, the reduction of the censorship from five to three percent, but at the very beginning I want to say a few sentences about Mrs. Comic's proposal, which introduces a lot more women to parliament than it has ever been before. At least that's what the bill says, as they say, on paper. But often what's written on paper changes reality completely. Indeed, until now, according to our laws, every third candidate on the list had to be a less represented sex, and these are women in Serbia at the moment. This means that by adopting Mrs. Komic's proposal, we get 40% on the paper lists. In the follow-up, it specifies - 40%, with every 10 candidates having four candidates less than the gender represented. Which means in the first 10, in the worst version of women, we get a position of seven, eight, nine and ten. So men are not obliged to place us in the first six places. I'm talking about the worst option, so what life can offer. Anything better, great. Why do I say men? Realistically, the majority of men are making parliamentary and parliamentary lists in Serbia. We need to talk about reality, because these laws sound good on paper, but reality is what we're interested in. So we get seven, eight, nine and ten in the worst case scenario. So did we reduce the current story, where we had every third woman potentially - three, six, nine? We did. So we're losing positions three and six for women among the top ten, which we've had so far. Which means you need to think a little bit about whether this story like this, without any amendment to specify the additional passing of women, could it remain? Or with this and with this proposal, we get 40, but in reality, it's hard to get. You will now say - yes, the list has 250, so it will pass, in the end it will be 40% and it is not a problem for the party I belong to. The Serbian Progressive Party is big and that is why people turn to large parties, which have large infrastructures. Because in such a large party they feel less of this kind of filigree detail of the law. We have a large party and I am sure that we have 103 MPs in the group now and we have 42% of women in the SNS parliamentary group, so we are far above, not before the current law, but also what will go on, we have already left, but I am not concerned with SNS, we are not concerned with politics to satisfy our group, I am concerned about women in some small party or group of citizens, whether they will arrive in those first six that are now prescribed. Well, we have a list that's a set of coalitions, so there are two, three, four coalitions. Every coalition has two candidates each and every one says I don't have to give a woman. Why? Not because someone has something against women, we're less visible, especially at the bar, we're not less active, we're not less capable, we're not less smart and educated, we're less visible. What does "visible" mean? Visible for those who make the list. You're often not visible despite your results just because it doesn't match the one who makes the list. All I'm talking about is actually a topic for all of us on the local, municipal and city committees of our party. That's the darkness. And I am today, whether or not Mrs. Comic's proposal passes, and I know that we from the SNS will vote for your proposal, that's what we're talking about, whether we're going to amend it, we're going to talk about it, there's time. The bottom line is that women across Serbia who are dealing with politics are now thinking about those who want to enter politics and those who have the power in their political parties to influence the lists they are making, to make sure that women are not in those ten to seven, eight, nine and ten, that in small parties if you send only two or three candidates ahead of your coalition list to send a less-represented sex if it is a woman. And one more thing, we'll talk about it on Saturday, and I'd like the special media to work out this idea, because this is talking about the political maturity of our scene and our society, journalists and the media can't stand by and wait for the Women's Parliamentary Network itself, so fragilely making some changes. When I say Women's Network, I mean MPs in the Serbian Parliament. They're not all here today, and they're supposed to be, because today we're not here, the women we're sending, we've spit on all the efforts of women who've been doing this for decades behind us. I'm here today because 30 or 40 years ago, a woman fought hard so we can talk today, write first 33, and now 40. And we're not going to write any further, because the next change means we're 50-50, as many of us as there are in the population, but for me, the key is that we're visible to enter those lists, and for that, don't always ask for a quota, is a good quota that exists legally. Put it on the party itself, in the municipal, in the flesh, on the city board, fight to be more visible. It's not easy, it's not easy for men, it's not easy for them, and there's thorns. Politics is a difficult battlefield, where many bleed, many give up, but if you stay to the end, many give in to your patience, perseverance, and the truth and the strength of your ideas. Just one message for dear colleagues, men. Maya said, "We don't need you to give us anything, it's not yours, so now you're giving us a share. Think about this bill, this is not women's higher percentage, this is less represented sex. What about once you're a less represented sex? It may be a long way for Serbia, but let's think about it when we're on the other side. Enough about this, we'll talk Saturday on Saturday. I want to go back to the bill that treats the reduction of the census from 5% to 3%. What my colleague Martinovic said and I will repeat a good part of his exposure, not because I can't talk about this differently, but he stabbed her in the face. At the very beginning, explaining the bill said that the Assembly should be and politics is the place of conflicting ideas, good, bad, citizens are measured, we step up the campaign, both of them, and finally the citizens after that campaign make a decision. Let's fight ideas here. We don't need street, we don't need media like this, we don't need to think about whether or not I'm going to deceive a voter in one way or another, in different means. Give it to the Parliament, let's talk. Why is there no one here when we're making a budget? Come on out and say – Wolf's budget is bad, the advances didn't do well, see what the better budget is. What didn't we hear? Here, the bill of electoral law was not valid for women and Comićko took and wrote a woman. I'm sorry I didn't write that. Who's to blame for not remembering? The woman remembered, wrote, told me – the proposal is great, let's support it. Personally, politically, I'm not happy. Why isn't that me? Because I want to get results. I'm here for the results, for the citizens. Someone's done it, I'm giving him my hand - well done. One more thing, when it comes to Chomićka. We'll probably see some moves in the next few months. It is polite for me that Mrs. Comic entered parliament to speak for the citizens who chose her. Her bill of law is the voice of the citizens of the field. We can interpret, the adversaries like it very much, the boycott has nothing, the DS is no longer boycotting, his MP sitting in the hall. We can pack a story like that. But don't let this woman's name slip away as a motive for the stories of dear Gilas who doesn't have the strength to admit that she can't produce a good result. His statement that anyone who does not go to the elections, anyone who goes to the elections is not an opposition, is such an insult to all colleagues who have been in opposition for decades, who have serious political parties that have existed for decades, who have thousands of citizens of their members, Gilas, these are people who think differently from you, who criticise Vukic's party and Vucic's policy, but think differently from you. Gilas, you are not the opposition in Serbia, you do not determine the opposition way of thinking and acting. He might want to, but I'm sorry, political life in Serbia depends on multiple factors. First of all, the political will of the people and voters. Speaking of political will voters, it will be better seen by reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%. It will be better seen, because what my colleague Orlic once said – what when it is a good idea, excellent, which no one has thought of, comes from the leader of a small party, how can a citizen introduce that idea into parliament? No, the man's at 3.5, not 3.7 at 4.2, he doesn't go 5% at all, and he's carrying good ideas, for a group of citizens he's got good ideas. We think a reduction to 3% is a great story to hear that good idea. This brings us the most damage, because we will reduce our number of MPs, conditionally speaking, now. We have to wait for the election results, I really believe in the first place in the people who make up my party, and then certainly for all the people who vote for us. In life, I usually appreciate most when someone works, when they're not forced, what they don't have to do. I really appreciate those moves because he's not forced, because today we're a lot of things forced into life and work. What Alexander Vucic has done to harm himself directly, to do good for a political scene in Serbia, for a democratic mood, for a better picture of Serbia's democratic will is a matter that we will long talk about in the coming time. Similarly, what Comicka did today, contrary to the boycott decision, came to consider a bill on behalf of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70834	Thank you. The word has a lovely Mihajlovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70835	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'm going to make a quick connection to my previous colleague's speech and say that maybe I remembered something that no one else thought of. First of all, I would like to talk about my colleague Komic's proposal, which is to increase the quota for women's participation in politics, SMS and I, of course, support it. It remains a bitter taste that today in parliament really seems like we women are praying for men to give us something. Of course, in an ideal situation we'd be at least 50-50. As many of you did not believe in women who fought 100 years ago that women have the right to vote and that we are here today, most of you probably do not believe that it is possible to adopt my proposal, or to supplement Mrs. Komic's proposal, which is to find one person with disabilities on each election list among the first 10 candidates. I am sometimes sorry that I belong to that minority, even a text message whose ideas we are not yet matured for, and perhaps those ideas will surely reach Serbia in 10-15 years and no matter how strange it may seem to you, and if you do not support this proposal, believe me that a similar proposal will be adopted in this House, if not. What does this matter? In Serbia, we have between 10% and 15% of the population that belongs to the category of people with disabilities. It is more than members of any other party of national minorities. However, persons with disabilities cannot, under the law, organise themselves as a minority party, while parties of national minorities can. You know that somewhere, it obliges us to book a seat in parliament at some point for certain minority parties. For example, watch out for the amazing thing now, Uganda has five reserved seats in its parliament for people with disabilities, and in local parliaments, it is mandatory that each list has at least one male and one female candidate with disabilities. What does this matter? It is important that we provide a group that suffers centuries of discrimination with minimal power so that it can represent its interests and fight for the promotion of this group, all with the idea of having an equal share in all social activities and leading to a better economic situation in the country. So, the idea is that this population should not be placed in a position of passive users of social giving, but that through political power, through political participation, aphirmic and disturbing other people and provide support to get out of these people as much as possible in order for them to be in charge of their society, and not just a burden to society. I think Serbia is mature to adopt this proposal and, of course, it depends absolutely on no one on the side, but solely on us. This would mean that if there were 10 to 15 lists in parliament, it would be 10 to 15 people with disabilities, don't think that there are now no more people with disabilities than we officially think they are. They may not all have paper, but the fact is that even though there are more people, these people have no interest in fighting for this population. So, it depends on you dear colleagues and colleagues whether you support it in the voting day. As for the SNS proposal to reduce the censorship to 3%, the Modern Serbian Party, you've already had a number of opportunities to hear it, it supports it. However, we believe that perhaps even greater problems than censorship are the number of signatures the political entity needs to collect to start the party first, and then go to the polls. So, if you want to do business, to hear your ideas that, for example, do not represent majority parties, it takes a minimum of 50,000 euros just to register a party, and only to pay an overture of signatures, without talking about renting offices, people who are going to sit there, watch the entire infrastructure, and then another 50,000 euros to even hand over the parliamentary list. So, you should think about that too, because the question is whether a bigger problem is a censorship or even a way to get into a censorship race. As for this part on national councils, i.e. national councils, to confirm that a party represents the interests of a particular minority community, we believe that this is not good. I'll give you an example of the Macedonian national community. You have three parties of the Macedonian national community registered in the Political Party Register. They are not all equally close, nor equally hateable to the existing National Council of the Macedonian National Community. In this and under the law, national councils are not political organisations, or should not be, although on the ground we have that they are both politicised, so why not. Think about turning them into political parties, so we think that this could lead to abuse and conflict of interest, and that this should definitely be resolved in a different way. More about your amendment, of course, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70836	I thank you, too. It's Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70837	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have had the opportunity to hear a debate far above quality. So one very exhaustive and, first of all, with a lot of details about all the topics that are on the agenda today. First of all, I would underline a few things and, possibly, for the end of today and today's session concerning the Law on the reduction of the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%, which the SNS, as a proposing, gave, and that is that this change gives one additional impulse to the development of modern Serbia, and we are already on that path to European values. This is a proposal that gives hope and investment in the future of democracy in Serbia. The opportunities these changes in the census from 5% to 3% are to further develop political life in Serbia, and the possibility that in society we have, primarily politically, to the greatest and most accurate extent, to the people's home, or to parliament. As we have had many opportunities today and to hear, in this situation the reduction of censorship is the only party that can lose is the SNS, due to the proportional system, the Dont system that serves us to calculate or end the term of office at the end of the election results. So we are the only ones in this distribution we can lose, but several times we have stressed, and it is enough to hear each time that Serbia's interest is ahead of each individual, political interest or any other. This is an extraordinary opportunity to hear what smaller parties think, smaller movements, groups of citizens. It is an opportunity for a local, an opportunity for groups of citizens and an opportunity for a different policy to be heard in parliament tomorrow, to unite with a broad social consensus with a common force and lead an internal and external policy for the development of our country. I'll remind you and give you an exact example, I'm not sure we had a chance to hear it today, and it's about wasting the votes we've had a chance to see in the previous elections. In 2014, I will remind you, four parties, four lists were between 3% and 5%, more than three, and less than five, and did not enter parliament, 510.940 votes voted for these four lists, which remained below the censorship. So, in this way, the SNS, as a promoter, and Alexander Vucic, we show that every citizen is important to us, that every voice is important to us and that the will of our citizens is the most important. Their will tomorrow will shape the policy of the Republic of Serbia, build institutions and give us the opportunity to move forward. The announced Alliance for Serbia boycott, as part of the opposition, will in no way affect the progress, the outcome and the results of the elections. It represents an irresponsibility towards voters, and we are very clear that this boycott actually does not exist. You know, and now it's very clear, and if we may have had a dilemma so far, we don't have it anymore, that Dragan Gilas, in his own name, and I would say that everyone else in the Alliance for Serbia, I hope that in recent times and notice, is going to the elections through his organization "One out of five million". So, the boycott is just an excuse for lack of citizens' trust. They don't mind election conditions. In this election, from 2000 to 2012, they only won from the election to the council of the local community, through parliamentary elections to the presidential elections. So, citizens' trust they don't have and in that name goes to their boycott and the story of the legitimacy of the election. To conclude with that truth that will be tomorrow's witness and time is that the legitimacy of elections is only given to citizens, not fascists and tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70838	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70839	Thank you. By following closely the debate and following the dialogues that he has held today, both in the halls, in this hall, and I suppose also in the political parties, being present at the meetings of the Women's Parliamentary Network, I would just like to share with you that the contents of the amendments that have been submitted, the way in which the Women's Parliamentary Network and all the other MPs propose that this amendment be accepted will have a sentence that will bring joy to all those who should vote in this assembly, which is when the Proposer says - I accept the amendment, so it becomes an integral part of the bill, so you don't have to vote. So tomorrow, the continuation of dialogue for the sake of all those in Serbia that we exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70840	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if anyone wants to speak in accordance with Article 96. Is it the Rules of Procedure that he did not exercise his right under Rule 96? The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70841	Thank you, Chairman. I will also try to be brief and not take up too much time for my colleagues, because I think we have reached a broad consensus on the proposals that are on the Parliament's agenda today, which is the result of the dialogue that has been conducted in parliament and outside parliament between the ruling majority representatives and one part of the opposition. In short, I will look only at the bill, proposed by my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary club, to cut the censorship from 5% to 3%, and once again to stress that those parties who are to go to the elections are in favour of going to the elections regardless of whether the censorship is 5% or 3% and that most political organisations, which advocate the fight in the elections, have decided to go to the elections before a public discussion on whether it is necessary to reduce the censorship. This will in many ways make the future composition of parliament better because we will not have to agree to some coalitions that may be a burden to those partners under the coalition agreement. We already have several political organisations today framed in various alliances, which we can see now, are a burden to each other, which is because of the programming difference, which is due to the ideological difference, which is because of the attitude on whether it is necessary to participate in the next elections or not. With this in mind for the parties of modern Serbia and our parliamentary group supports the proposal to cut the censorship from 5% to 3%. As for the proposal sent to the National Assembly by our colleague Gordana Comic from the Democratic Party, I, as a representative of the women's part of parliament, can only welcome this proposal, by thinking that it can be further improved and that perhaps even colleagues from the parliamentary clubs will consider ensuring that the less gender represented on all election lists is as much as possible. So one of the proposals, which will be directed by our parliamentary group, is that in every five candidates there are two less represented sexes. I hope that other colleagues will also support this proposal not only by our parliamentary groups, but also by the other parliamentary groups having the same or similar proposal and that we will also reach a consensus. What I think may be most important to the public is to be directed to the fact that there is an informal parliamentary group operating in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is a women's parliamentary group, and I must say that this group has been working very closely lately and that Mrs Comic's proposal, which has made this proposal to amend and supplement the law in the assembly procedure, has come across broad support within our informal parliamentary group, i.e. women's parliamentary networks, and I will thank all the colleagues who lobbyed within their parliamentary clubs and perhaps those colleagues who disagree with this proposal have made additional efforts to convince them that it is important to find as many women as possible in the next National Assembly of Serbia as possible. I think that with our participation in parliament, we have succeeded in many situations to prove that we are able to respect Parliament's work and to make further efforts to respect this institution in any way possible, whether we represent the interests of the National Assembly outside Parliament in the various activities that we have as Members of Parliament, whether in our performances on the tide or on committees. With this in mind, the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party will also support counterpart Gordana Comic's proposal to meet at least 40% of the less represented gender, or women, in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70842	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70843	Thank you, Madam President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants, the United Peasants' Party, as I have said today, will support the laws tabled by the SNS parliamentary group in this original form in which they are submitted, because I think they are quite good. There may be room to think about corrections when it comes to minority lists, when it comes to obtaining assurances from national councils, so that perhaps on the day we discuss in particular whether there is one space for this bill to be even more quality. I am truly convinced and I think that the proposal tabled by my colleague Gordana Komic is really necessary in this part. If we have already started with the intensities that we do not have enough awareness that the less represented sex should be sufficiently on the lists for the next republican elections, then we should also provide this condition which was obviously not disputed among MPs, nor in the public in Serbia, which is that the less represented sex on the lists gets 40% of guaranteed space when it comes to lists both on the local and republican lists, meaning, practically in political life. In order for that to be fully perfected, as we can say, I think we should really consider some of the amendments that have been submitted, and I guess on Saturday, because of the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure, if I can give myself the right, continue to work and do an additional analysis of how to provide it. What's very interesting is what a colleague of Mihajlovska was talking about, but at this point I think it's clear enough that people who unfortunately have a certain degree of disability should be represented in parliament and that their voice is heard. What I expect will be much easier in some future meeting, which will better reflect Serbia's thinking, precisely because of this reduction in censorship because more ideas will be heard, that citizens will also be whose ideas are not greater than 3.5%, 4% will be represented in this parliament to influence that one day we do not need quotas of any kind in terms of minority groups, nor when it comes to persons with disabilities or when it comes to other things. It's something I think there's a serious space to work on. Why? Because this period of these eight years has so far provided the basic preconditions that Serbia is economically on its feet, that this should no longer be a top priority, there is one momentum that will carry us further and must not be forgotten about that part, that the Army is no longer an association of hunters like it was in 2012, which we found, but is becoming a serious factor in deterring any attempt at aggression against the Republic of Serbia because it is its primary task. Now we really have much more needs and space left to do exactly this sort of thing when it comes to a better life for citizens, when each individual is concerned with a future period and the future work of Parliament, let us devote our attention and engagement and if we talk about it in principle in the last few months, then indeed these preconditions and there are. Without much bile, but in order to ensure that the laws that are passed are truly exclusive and only for the benefit of the Serbian citizens, if the debate in parliament leads to this, and in order to ensure that we simply declare ourselves in the elections that come with whose ideas we support, and by adopting these laws and reducing the censorship to 3%, we really won't bring anyone into a dilemma when he rounds up a list that is close to him to vote for her for someone else, afraid that, let's say, it's a colloquially cast voice. Indeed, by adopting these laws, Serbia is raising electoral conditions to a serious maximum at the moment, and how decent and acceptable the campaign depends on ourselves as we behave in the campaign. If we allow ourselves to continue to be stimulated by the street dictionary, by rudeness, by trying to break in where someone doesn't belong, by wanting to come to power without a choice, then Serbia won't be well. Just like this, ideas like this, this way of acting in parliament is something that really puts it on the margin, and this is one of the best ways for Serbia to continue after the 2020 elections to move forward and be a better place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70844	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70845	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this part of the debate, I would like to thank everyone, absolutely everyone who has taken part in this discussion, which we have shown together in the best possible way today that we can, well, be able to conduct a dialogue, that we can do so in the best possible way with a lot of mutual respect. We're talking about things that are of common interest. So, of the interest of the entire state and of the entire nation to which we all belong. The General Consensus, yes, that is, I would say the most important message that we send from this room all together today, and I am glad that he noticed it and that message was highlighted and authorized by a representative of one of the opposition parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. This is really so, when you look at it today, we didn't have different views on the question of useful that results in a reduction in the censorship from 5% to 3%. So, not only did everyone in the parliamentary majority, not just everyone who participated as an opposition in our interparty dialogue, but also representatives of those parties who did not participate in this interparty dialogue. We have shown that we are able to be correct and that what is indisputable is good, that is to say, without having to spill the bile without having to insist that something is wrong just because it's someone's proposal and it's one of the most important messages we've sent today. It is precisely because of such a message that taking an attitude reflexically is not good as Alexander Vukic suggests it, it is not good if SNS suggests it, and sometimes it is not good if Serbia is successful. That's not good, ladies and gentlemen, and there's no luck in that. Here, they just reminded us that some can't be above that kind of concept of things, Dragan Gilas, his personal portal "directly.rs" as I see it, began a new cycle of a dirty campaign. One totally uncultural campaign against SNS deputy group head Aleksandr Martinovic. Because of his presentation today, because he said it was not good to take a reflex position, and then to fail if Serbia records it, or to underestimate what the SNS is proposing just because we propose it. This is why they came after him today, and yet I see that they are not saving on social networks or Mrs. Comic, or anyone else who has shown that there are people in Serbia who are able to think above the patterns that are trying to impose on us. A pattern that reads -- on the street of happiness for some, institutions under the feet, a pattern that reads -- in Serbia people should be seen as political enemies and treat each other with hatred. Today, we have all shown together, who we have debated today, that it absolutely doesn't have to be, that Serbia is a very different country than it is for some to love. So for those of you who are never happy when we do something good together, let them enjoy how they feel and keep reminding us that we have something to fix, and that's exactly what we're going to do by adopting this proposal. So, to ensure more democracy, more freedom and more space to operate in the Assembly, that that is exactly what we want to warn, to overcome the negative feeling, to overcome hatred and to overcome the call for us to conflict. That's what we should look at together. Also, since we have already reached a broad consensus, we all expect together to see it as a good commendation both by NGOs and Mrs Fajon, but also by all others who say they care about what is happening in Serbia on the political scene. If Serbia agrees on this, and as you have seen, it agrees, then we expect that at least you will be decent enough to say – we have nothing against it and we are happy that this country is making progress and that every day is only better than the time it left behind, which today is old enough, which today records successes, which records victory, and even if it means, and means that it realizes with the success of Alexander Vukic and SNS politics, we are glad when something is good, and not that it is good, but it is more than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-06-0.u70846	Thank you. No one's answering in Article 96 anymore. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. Continuing the session and discussing the amendments on Saturday (February 8th) at 10:00 p.m. [[The session was suspended at 6:30 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the 20nd extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 89 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 116 MPs are present in the hall. We're continuing our work. We move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received reports from the board of directors. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected amendments by MPs of the people, Djorđa Vukadinovic, adding a new Article 1, Prof. Dr. Ševarlic to Article 1 and Nada Kostic to Article 81. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
