ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title of the law, and I must admit that this is something that has not often happened in the previous 30 years of the multi-party in Serbia. However, this is another indicator of how your majority mocked the National Assembly, because there is not an absolutely similar example that MPs of the ruling coalition on their own drafts of the law and of the laws delivered to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not tens of them, it also happened in the yellow ones, but to submit hundreds and hundreds of amendments. You submitted 300, 400, 500 amendments to the first members of the law. Telling stories that had absolutely nothing to do with the law, had learned songs about different parts of life, and then on one side praised the government that you support, but the essential goal was to make it impossible for the opposition to speak for one single second about the amendments. It's been a few of yours, let me say, attempts, several sessions, until then we too have begun to submit amendments to the first members of the law in order to deal with this minimal amount of time that we have. However, since you are saying that the situation in Serbia is good, how is parliamentary democracy developed, how do you respect other people's rights, especially minority rights, I would ask that one of your experts give me a similar example in the European practice that you are so pleased to call upon? Let's see if such examples exist and can such examples be found in England, France, Germany and other developed parliamentary democracies? It's an anomaly that's unique to you. No one was so, to say, ready to throw away all the good practice from the previous years and decades under the feet to deny that minimum minimum minimum of speech to the opposition. If you're as good, if you're so valuable, if your results are as good as you're saying, you'd have to be ready to enter the dialogue, you'd be in a hurry, you'd be making debate shows to show that you're better, that you're more successful than those who ruled Serbia before you. Unfortunately, however, there is absolutely no difference. What you've been doing with the amendments shows that in some segments you're even worse than the ones you call yellow thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70849	The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70850	Thank you, Chairman. A fellow said, "God be with you for three minutes." I could agree with that. I followed closely and tried to understand what the amendment promoter wanted to achieve with this amendment, given that it was not clear from the reasons, I decided to listen to the oral explanation. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to figure out what he wanted to say, what this discussion has to do with the amendment itself. Then I looked at the amendment itself, and he said – in the title of the bill after words – changes, words are added – and additions. I must admit, the chairman, that I expected from the previous speaker another amendment, an amendment that reduces the announced reduction of the censorship from 5% to 3%, an attempt to reduce it to 1%. Why? Because in this case, the parliamentary group, or party of the previous speaker, would then have the chance to pass the censorship in the next election. Now, with a 3% censorship, it remains a mental noun, and now we're going back to the cause of this whole story, and that's his appearance persistently in the media, his speeches here in the Assembly, and I'm really calling once again the chairman of his parliamentary group, so if you want to cross the 3% censorship, don't ever give the amendment's proposal to answer for a word again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70851	I can't listen to you. Necessa Sarovic, according to the amendment. Because you didn't say anything after the amendment in your first address. Take the chance I'm giving you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70852	It is truly outrageous that after all that the previous speaker has said, you do not give me the right to the line, but good. So, Mr. Markovic, you don't really understand anything about me. It's nothing surprising.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70853	You cannot address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70854	Well, he's spoken to me so far, Mrs. Gojkovic, in the same way and said he didn't understand any of what I was saying, and that's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70855	You can, but talk to me, text him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70856	So, I'm not surprised that he doesn't understand, because in order for a man to understand something, he should also have a certain life experience and have a certain education. You, Mr. Markovic, for one election you represent yourself as a lawyer, for others you represent yourself as an economist, and you insist on hiding what college you have completed, most likely in a fair way you are none, and that is precisely why you do not understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70857	You spoke directly to the MP. You said, "You, Mr. Markovic, you, Mr. Markovic." I'm trying to avoid direct discussions on an amendment that you didn't want to explain, but you were talking about grandmothers and frogs, mostly about grandmothers. Here you go. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70858	Dear President, I didn't want to turn this into a replica, but you have to have an understanding of the anxiety of the previous speaker, you know, he's not used to getting up early. He usually comes to this congregation about 12, 13, 14, rarely when he came before, but, behold, today he had to get up early, probably didn't even drink coffee, so that's where that anxiety came from. When it comes to some lies we've heard here that I present myself in one election as a lawyer, in other elections as an economist, and what he's already said, so I invite him to read a copy of the application for all the last elections I've been running for, it's always the same interest next to my name and last name. What's true, that's, she can hurt, you know, and he's sick of the truth that his party is currently under the threshold that's announced, that's what this law we're discussing today. I would just like to repeat the appeal for his political party, that if he wants to move that threshold, transfer 3%, he must take care of who will appear in public, who will make political statements and who will make political statements from this speaker. When it comes to college, the truth is, I didn't graduate from college so I could understand what the previous speaker just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70859	Thank you. Should I repeat "Good morning", that we are here to discuss a certain law and ask you to return to the topic. Please, when we explain the amendments that we are really trying to explain to the citizens of Serbia what we wanted with some amendments, I'm afraid they don't understand what we're talking about today. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70860	Thank you, President. The amendment is under the heading of the bill, so I'd like to say a few words, it's about the bill on amendments to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. In his opening statement in the principle debate, the proposed representative said that there is no, which is true, an ideal political system, but when we talk about electoral legislation, this must be the most approaching proportional electoral system, which is the electoral system that does not have too much censorship. What does "too much censorship" mean? Here, let's say, Turkey has a 10% censorship and that's why it's been criticised by some people in Europe, even ended up in front of the European Court of Human Rights, though, that process has been won, but that's not the subject of this discussion. Census shouldn't be too small, because when it's too small then the political scene is too fragmented, and then there are various problems, or there are some political consequences, for example, some small parties if they become tas on the scale can get practically one very large blackmail potential. That's why we need to find some balanced solution and I think that's exactly what we're talking about today. When determining the number of Members to receive a list of MPs, we use so-called Dontt's formula, which I would say, under the quote, favours the strongest political party, which is in this case the SNS. How does she favor the strongest client? So by making up the largest number so-called. The scattered votes are just overrun by the strongest political party, so it will relatively get more mandates than it won in the elections. This is not something that is unusual in modern European democratic practice. In a large number of countries, even in this century, the parties in the elections were also given a sub-half majority, and after the election, thanks to Dont's formula, they were given a practically greater number of mandates, i.e. to gain a majority of over half, or over 50%, and in this way they essentially get absolute power. So if we cut the census now I'm not saying that we would completely remove this anomaly, but we would certainly significantly reduce it. So from what we're changing now, it's clear that the biggest loser of the SNS is the greatest winner of democracy, i.e. citizens who will get the opportunity to be better represented, or represented according to their preferences. As for the criticism of reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, I'd like to point to several inconsistencies when it comes to these criticisms. First, criticism can be justified for changing the electoral legislation, or especially the electoral law immediately before the elections or relatively quickly, let me say, within a relatively short time before the elections are, if these election changes are significant. Let's say that we are now changing the electoral system and making a majority electoral system in which the SNS would most likely win over 200 parliamentary seats or to change the system by increasing the number of election units, but to tailor them by making them so that the ruling majority of present seats will win more seats, then these criticisms would certainly be in place. However, in this case, whoever is proposing this law will certainly win less seats than if he hadn't proposed this law, therefore, I would say that the criticism is not exactly in place. The other thing we're talking about is the notion of an election year. The election year is not 2020, because if it were, for example, if we were to call the elections for 1 January 2020, we could change the electoral conditions by the last minute and no one could honour changing the laws in the election year. The election year is a year before the election, so it runs since April last year. And we, as you remember, changed the laws in the election year a little more than a month ago, and we changed the laws mostly on the proposal of opposition parties, so we went to meet opposition parties and it came from the European Union, or from representatives of the European Union, mostly positive criticism, i.e. we received a positive assessment of these changes. I don't see why these changes would now be criticised when, as I have already concluded, these changes at least contribute to the ruling majority, and in particular do not contribute to the legislator of this law. Otherwise, in order for there to be no ambiguity, and I think citizens should know, the 3% electoral censorship isn't something we invented, so we don't invent any hot water, the 3% electoral censorship exists in a large number of countries. I will only list some of the European countries, for example, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Greece, Italy, Georgia, Spain. Finally, I would like to conclude with one recommendation found in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Resolution 1547 of 2007, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. They should think about it, especially when EU people criticise these changes that say literally: "The centre for parliamentary elections should not be greater than 3%". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70861	Thank you. National MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70862	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the beginning of today's discussion has astounded me on a saying by Vladika Nikola Velimirovic. He says, "There is no man who knows not much, nor one who knows enough." I hope we'll be wise enough to follow this saying that Vladika left us in the amanetas that he wanted us to act like when he said this saying. It means that we'll be wise and realize that none of us know everything, that we don't know much, that none of us know enough. We are not experts in everything and everything, but we must work together in the interests of Serbia and Serbia's citizens. So today, when we decide on these amendments to the law, let's be wise and be smart, don't argue. Let's do something useful for all citizens and for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70863	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70864	Mr. Sarovic and the SRS, in fact, with this first amendment, which he submitted on behalf of our parliamentary group, we wanted to shed light on some circumstances and to more precisely edit this law, where the censorship will decrease from 5% to 3%. However, Mrs Gojkovic, astonishing that your parliamentary group, along with your coalition partners, has submitted this bill without MPs understanding what this is all about. In 2020, SNS MPs, including some party officials, do not know in which way mandates are distributed, so we could hear, however, from the MPs of your coalition group that there are some overruns of voices and such and similar nonsense. If you do not understand anything, you must have a member of the RIK to teach you what the Dont system is and what are the voices that affect and what system 250 parliamentary mandates are distributed under. So it's a scale system, 250 mandates are determined by obtaining a coefficient for a certain mandate from parties that have crossed the censorship. Those that have been crossed, which are below the line, do not go into the distribution of parliamentary mandates. But, on the other hand, the system of that ratio favours that party that won the largest number of mandates, because it will have such a ratio to be allocated to it, but it can affect one vote. That's what you did on Scott's orders, former U.S. ambassador. When you saw that the ratio cannot assign mandates to this group that now spits you all the way and muds, which you have inserted into the Assembly, both Boška Obradovića and Sanda Raskovic Ivić and others, you have given me a sufficient number of votes, invented votes to get that coefficient and to cross the censorship. It is a shame and a shame for parliamentaryism back to how many years of renewed multilaterals. Now we have another situation. Census is shrinking and, I guess, in the political system of one country, it is imperative for each party to be in a legislative body and to deal with politics in a normal manner. But you have here one winded out of this morning's MP, who also knows nothing about the electoral system, or the political system at all, which was just spoken of by a colleague named Sarovic, who, by some means, would have said this by a spin of alleged percentages and until the law was changed, wanted to say, if you do not vote for Vukic and SNS, you have failed and your votes have been cast. No, our message to voters should be – right now vote for the largest opposition party of the SRS who will best represent your democratic rights with such a distribution of mandates and your votes through the percentage you show us, which has not been the case until now, except when the MPs of the SRS speak. So you're going to change the law. You haven't changed your Rules of Procedure in four years. You have denied many rights to opposition political parties, and now we have a debate on the law that you want to change, and your MPs do not know what the electoral system is, or how the mandates are distributed. We'll have to listen here all day long. Never mind, we're here to make arguments and defend our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70865	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70866	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I want to support these amendments to the bill, because I think that we are all in this room and in general citizens of the Republic of Serbia are aware that political stability is needed, that it is necessary to offer a different spectrum of opportunities for them to vote in these next and republican and local elections to Serbian citizens, above all. What's good is that both smaller parties and especially the locals, groups of citizens are allowed to cross the censorship and represent citizens in congregations, both the republican and the duchy, and of course local parliaments. I've got to look back on something my colleagues used to say before me, my esteemed colleague Bauer mentioned different election models. We're talking about reducing the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%, but it compared to the majority electoral system. I must also tell Mr Martinovic, who is officially on behalf of all of us proposing this law and other MPs, that we should perhaps leave it to the next assembly, but when we adopt a new law, and he will inevitably come, for the election of MPs and council members of the municipality, to think at least about the combined electoral model. Unlike some colleagues, I believe that the majority electoral model is the most honest and, for example, if the SNS or any other party in that model will get 200 MPs, let them get it. But I don't think that's quite the way it is, the Honorable President of Parliament, because in 2004, we had a good attempt to be elected by the mayors of the municipalities in the name, or by the majority. If you look at only the results of these choices then, you will see that the ruling coalition at the time did not receive 50% of the mayors or the president of the municipalities chosen by name, and you and I are examples of the whole story. That's why I think the name is the right to vote and that these people who come here based on their name, their biography, the origin of their family and their knowledge and honesty would be the right way to represent all of us Serbian citizens, even if I or some of my colleagues were not here. Therefore, honourable MPs, I, with full understanding of the need to have a better offer at the political stage of Serbia, am ready to support these changes. But, with full understanding that this change, especially in small municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, will bring one, I must say, let's not be rude, unusual situations that you with 70 or 75 votes literally, 75 votes will enter the local parliament and have one committee member. It is a very unusual situation and I think that, if the political climate is what it is now necessary, it should immediately change in the next term of this tide, go to the majority system or at least to the combined system that we had in the province of Vojvodina where 50% of the MPs would be elected in the name and 50% from the party lists. With full understanding that each party or coalition will want to set out its prominent members who, due to their party work, are not too popular in the people to put into the local or republican Assembly, but, on the other hand, need to point out whether citizens, individuals, whether they are party members or extra-party personalities, can come in and represent Serbian citizens, and that citizens know where these people live, what they do in life and what they have helped their environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70867	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70868	My very distinguished colleague, who, however, honored me and taught me mathematics, me, mathematicians, but that's fine, I just want to explain what I said. So she said that those votes of parties that remain below the census don't count. And what happens to those voices? Those voices, apparently, as I said, spill over to those parties that crossed the censorship, based on the results they've made. Mathematically - the one who won the most votes, it will pour out the most of those votes that remained below the censorship. So, he will get the most additional votes, i.e. He'll get the highest mandate because he had the best score. Others will also get more mandates, most likely, depending on how the formula will be applied in a specific case, but will receive fewer mandates, as they have received fewer votes. And I don't know what's not clear about it? I would only pray, when it comes to math, not being corrected, especially for those things I certainly know pretty well. And please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70869	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70870	Thank you. I'd like to do the amendment. As my colleague from Topola, Dragan Jovanovic, said, I support the proposal for this law to reduce the price of five to three percent, because this is a chance for small political parties, which I belong to, to be president of the United Peasant Party, which has a 60-percent board in Serbia, which, according to some data and statistics, can win up to 1% of the votes in the parliamentary elections, this is a chance for such parties to join the assembly. What is now being done, everything proposed by Mr Martinovic, is all to the detriment of the strongest party, the Serbian Progressive Party, because it will certainly have fewer MPs, because more parties will enter the Assembly, because 3% is more feasible to cross the censorship. In this way, the SNS and we in the coalition have the possibility of greater democracy, greater passability to smaller parties and normal, it is expected to join a larger number of parties in the coming period that will represent certain interests. As for the United Peasant Party, whose president I am, it will also take place in the next period in the elections, both parliamentary and local and rural, and we will be able to safely enter more local parliaments on our own, where we will represent the interest of the village, agriculture and all those concerning peasants and all those people living in the country and from the village. I would like more MPs in the Serbian Parliament to be people who are engaged in agriculture, who know the problems in agriculture, who are members or sympathisers of the United Peasant Party, because in this way I am sure they will have a greater opportunity to support the village and agriculture. In my neighborhood, it's said -- someone else's arm doesn't scratch and that's why, once again, I will support this bill's proposal to cut the censorship to 3%, because it's good, excellent, for all the small political parties. Once again, my dear colleagues and colleagues, with all due respect to all of you, I would like to see more MPs here in the Assembly who know how to do agriculture, how to live in agriculture, and how ugly the hand of our peasants is. Once again, I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70871	The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70872	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and voters, we've heard a lot of things since this morning, but the main message is that as Members of the SNS, as general MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are not here to grant musical wishes, to anyone in opposition. We are here to work responsibly for the citizens of Serbia, to work responsibly on the preservation of democracy and democratic values in our society, to build democracy, to strengthen our democratic capacities, both our parliament and our society in general, and I think that this law that we are discussing today is in principle, a good law that will in many ways strengthen and stabilise democracy in Serbia, by giving wider social groups the opportunity to have their own representatives in Parliament and show that we are Democrats at our core, ideologically speaking, in this respect that we want to enable citizens to have and extend their representatives, from how we have so far been foreseen by our electoral legislation. We've done so much in the past months, we've made big steps, we've made big concessions, we want to show that we're open to dialogue and we're open to a serious election game where we want to compete, our programs, our ideas, and, in particular, the SNS to come up with their results, which we have no reason to be ashamed of, but to be proud of. It also allows citizens and some smaller social groups to have representatives in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to represent their interests. It is now clear that the stories of some opposition groups about some boycott will fall into the water, because they will become completely funny with their 5% or 10% in the next election race, because many social groups, some less political parties, will have the opportunity to go to elections and have the opportunity to show that their ideas and programmes can cross that 3% threshold and that here, along with some future MPs in the next Parliament's meeting, are debated specifically and I hope with much more arguments in some subsequent debates on laws that will lie ahead of the tide and the new assembly of the National Assembly. As far as we're concerned, we've heard here that the National Assembly has turned into a mockery, that there are some pointless amendments, we're just not from those proposings, from the part of the opposition heard anything concrete about their amendments, nothing about how they're going to improve these legal proposals, some of the previous ones we've had. We heard only naked criticism on the SNS account, we heard nothing concrete, nothing to improve already existing laws in the Republic of Serbia and nothing to improve the lives of citizens, nothing to increase the degree of democracy of our society, means only naked criticism for criticism, nothing means anything. With this in particular, the SNS, by lowering the censorship from 5% to 3%, does a concrete thing for democracy in Serbia and that is good and we will continue to strengthen our democratic capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70873	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70874	Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, will bring a much larger number of electoral lists, which will cross the censorship, as the lower electoral threshold will attract political organisations that have not even thought of coming out of the 5% line. In figures, if three million people come to the parliamentary elections, instead of a minimum of 150 thousand votes, according to the current law, if the census is 3%, only 90,000 votes will be sufficient. That's good, because it allows smaller parties to even go on the political scene and play their programs. In the economy, we fight monopolism and the distribution of the market only to large players, and this is also a way to increase the opposition, because without opposition, the government can migrate, to work slower. This is a way to better understand citizens' needs by pointing to mistakes, criticising authorities. The Serbian Progressive Party will do its best not to lose much because we are meeting smaller political organisations to democratisation parliament and society in general. The comparisons, in the last parliamentary elections held on 24 April 2016, included 20, which left eight parties, movements or coalitions without any mandate. The strongest list of Alexander Vukic – Serbia wins won 48 votes, 1.8 million, 52% of the mandate, which is 131 people's MP. The vote was close to 3.8 million citizens, 56%, and the Dverry and DSS coalition barely passed 190.000 votes. Many times in the congregation, he mentioned the way they came to the seats. To conclude, all those who represent the opinion of a certain number of citizens, not just their own, come to the vote. The elections are not attended by those who are self-called leaders of the opposition, as they are shown in their media. Boycott serves them to hide behind those citizens who haven't gone to elections in years, to show their strength to a larger one, and when they announce a mass gathering, we see it's just a handful of thugs and rebels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70875	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70876	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected colleagues, in the past few months we have adopted more changes to the electoral laws aimed at improving and improving the electoral process. I'd say these changes we're talking about today are the most significant. As colleagues have already said, it has happened several times in the past 20 or 30 years that in different elections a number of parties fail to win the 5% censorship and that a significant number of votes remain below the censors, for example, some parties win up to 100,000 and up to 150,000 votes without being part of parliament, although it is a significant and certainly number of votes that are not negligible. With these electoral changes, we will also allow these parties to have a better chance of becoming part of parliament, to be more motivated to take part in the electoral process, and to ultimately, what is most important, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the local parliament and in the right way to paint what is the electoral will of citizens, or what the citizens voted for in the elections. Also, I think these changes will motivate groups of citizens who join together in local parliaments and gather around some local topics and goals. These small groups of citizens often have a lack of motivation to come together on some topic and to take part in the elections, again with a 3% electoral censorship and will be more accessible to them and have, I say, more courage to take part in the election process, which certainly improves the work of local parliaments to a good extent. What I particularly mean is, in some previous period, there was a lot of talk about whether the elections should be boycotted. We see in the last few days and a few weeks that even those who have been the most persistent in the stories of how the elections should be boycotted in certain ways are looking for bypass roads to go out in the election anyway, which says that the whole boycott story was pretty pointless. What is my deep belief is that at the moment the boycott campaign of parliament began, the only goal was to destabilise the political situation in the country and try to raise tensions in society to make these protests as massive as possible. However, as we have seen, citizens did not recognise this and the only result of this boycott was the fact that certain parties practically deprived themselves of the opportunity to address citizens in direct television transmission, practically, daily, both in the Republika Srpska Assembly and in many local parliaments. My view is that we can demonstrate our position on some issue, dissatisfaction in some subjects and anyone who participated in political life at some point was the opposition in both some place and some topic protested or expressed his position, but when it comes to important issues, the adoption of laws, the formation of power, the change of government, it is clear that parliament, both the republican and local, are the only places where we can talk about these issues and that those political options that have an attitude – why should we go to elections if we cannot win and who think that participation in political life is the only goal of coming to power and who are not ready to lay hands when they lose, I don't think they deserve either to be part of political life, and also part of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or any local parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70877	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70878	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing in particular the proposals that will have a direct impact on the election process. That is why it is important for citizens, first of all, to explain to them what is changing, why and in what way. In recent months, we have adopted amendments and amendments to laws that have also been the subject of inter-party dialogue and which directly or indirectly refer to elections, concerning public procurement, financing of political activities, preventing corruption and greater powers given to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown great width by active participation in the dialogue, as the largest political party in power could only say no. Instead, we entered the dialogue, we were prepared to continue to listen to proposals from the opposition or to the part of the opposition that took part in this dialogue and to work to improve electoral conditions and the electoral process. We want parliamentary dialogue, we want all political opinions in parliament to be represented, we want more representativeness and certainly the electoral will of citizens to be shown in a better way in the National Assembly. There is no ideal political system, but on the SNS side at all times there is the possibility and willingness to work to make this system better. As a parliamentary group, we have tabled two proposals aimed at ensuring for a people's period a greater role of parliament in the political system and political life in Serbia. The National Assembly is the place where political dialogue should be conducted, where attitudes and ideas should be presented and decisions that have a direct impact on all citizens of Serbia discussed. As a result, one of the proposals is to reduce the censorship from 5% to 3%, just to better demonstrate the electoral will of citizens, to represent all political opinions, to give more political options a chance to enter parliament, which will increase representativeness and ultimately lead to more widespread participation in the elections and ultimately raise the degree of democracy to a higher level. The second proposal concerns national minorities, i.e. their participation, both in the elections and later in parliament and in decision-making in Serbia, and here I think of the parties of national minorities who are, and not only formally registered or previously registered before the elections to participate under more favourable conditions, so I believe that by adopting these proposals, we will also remove possible abuses in this regard. During today's day, we will also talk about what percentages the less represented sex will participate in, and we will also talk about some things that we could hear different opinions on public hearing organised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I believe that these bill proposals should be approached, first of all, by practical application, because the application of these laws is in practice, in fact, of great importance for showing through figures and through the mandates of the electoral will of our citizens. The responsibility we have shown in running the state in all areas is also shown today when it is clear that we want to improve the electoral system. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70879	The People's MPs Nenad Canak and Olena Papuga submitted to the 1st Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70880	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, we as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, a regional party, have tabled an amendment proposing that the censorship of both regional political parties be abolished, thus increasing the degree of democracy both in the electoral process and in the work of the National Assembly. In principle, I also stressed the extent to which the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, as a regional party, is damaged by the existing law or the Law on the selection of MPs, as Article 4 states that MPs are elected in the Republic of Serbia as one electoral unit on the basis of lists of political parties, party coalitions and other political organisations and lists proposed by groups of citizens. So, by applying this solution to this law in practice, I will repeat, as I said in the principle debate, major shortcomings are seen, and one of the most serious is that not all parts of Serbia are evenly represented. In this election process, that is, since the election, we have had 89 deputies from Belgrade, which is about 36% of the total number of MPs, of 250, and the number of voters is about 22%, which means that it is not the right proportion. On the other hand, much of the Republic of Serbia is not represented, or is not present. It is particularly characteristic that MPs in this building, that is, in this assembly, and this has been the case before, represent the practical interests of their parties rather than the interests of the regions from which they come. The basic rule is, in principle, I was saying, what other countries' experiences are, that the MP should represent the environment from which he comes. The voter's interest must be first. However, we have a case here that our MPs represent, above all, the interest of their parties, the parties that are with the Belgrade headquarters. It is rare for those in this congregation to be recognizable by representing their electoral unit. The case works, my colleague Milletić, I must mention him, has become recognizable. Every time he introduces himself, he says from which end he comes and has always forced topics that are of interest to his end. On the other hand, I'll give you an example when we discussed the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. We experienced that, apart from the three of us from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, who directly represented the interests of the people of Vojvodina, the other MPs who came from towns and places in Vojvodina, even some of them spoke the opposite of our proposals that represented the the thesis that they must finally resolve the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and so for this year, the AP Vojvodina budget is half as small as the budget of the city of Belgrade and all MPs, or more or less all MPs, from the ruling majority, have, to say, welcomed that budget, considering that their region, or the end from which they come is not really supposed to have more money than they get, and on the basis of that, is actually a high lagging of the AP Vojvodina, but that is some story for some other conversation. That is why we felt that, above all, the amendment to the Law on the election of MPs was necessary, so that the Republic of Serbia was divided into several regions that would have its representatives. In this regard, several days ago, we passed the law so that MPs were elected in the Republic of Serbia, according to our proposal, to five electoral units, with the AP Vojvodina being one electoral unit, the city of Belgrade or the territory of the city of Belgrade, established by law, to be the second electoral unit. The third electoral unit would be the Mačvanski district, Kolubarski, Zlatiborski, Moravički, Raški, Šumadijski, Podunavski and Rasinski district. The fourth electoral unit would be Braničevski County, Pomoravski, Borski, Zaječar County, Toplički, Nisavski, Pirotski District, Jablanski and Pcinjski and the fifth electoral units would actually be full-time, business-qualified citizens of the Republic of Serbia with residence outside the first four electoral unit. We've even done as much mathematics as any of these areas should have a representative in this home, and so would election unit 1, i.e. AP Vojvodina, with 65 terms of office, election unit 2, i.e. Belgrade, with 55, an electoral unit 3 – 63 mandates, election unit 4 would also have 63 and constituency 5 would have four seats. This is a proposal for our distribution, so that citizens are actually most democratically represented and that it does not happen, as is now happening, that certain parts of the Republic of Serbia do not have any representatives in this House. Whether this is an ideal way, whether this kind of mathematics is ideal, we don't know, but we think it would be worth, if nothing else, one public debate to run and the issue of the organisation, or the issue of law making, in this way, to finally run, because, let's just remind ourselves, in the 1990s, as we say, in Milosevic's time, we had 29 electoral units. We simply need to be aware that citizens, first of all, are in the focus of interest, and not only talk about the mathematics of how much the party will get the mandate, how it will be distributed. It is often heard here that most should make small parties. No one should do anything here. Here, simply, the electoral system should be such that all citizens are represented as evenly as possible and that in the right way there is a debate here, not that everything comes down to what the central office, or what the party demands or does not require. In this way, it would finally return to the reputation of this home and finally, in the right way, the citizens would be represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70881	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70882	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, the very idea of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to further strengthen the role of Parliament in the entire political life of our country and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the only representative body of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be a place in which all the political factors of our country will present their ideas and views on the overall policy of our country, is brought to life through these two laws. This is also the answer to the honourable MP who had discussed it before me, and a little later. By reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, we affirm and encourage, which is very important for our country, the role of national communities in creating a democratic environment in the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and we encourage the strengthening of national communities in the Republic of Serbia to go to elections in the Republic of Serbia, as they prove, by going to elections, to experience the Republic of Serbia as their own country, on the other hand. Is that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? We will also avoid the abuse of the parties of national minorities by not showing up in the elections of national minorities under false names, but it is the honorable Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic in the opening part of his discussion who spoke extensively, and it seems to me that some MPs did not listen, because if they had listened then they would probably have spoken differently today. Well, we won't have fake Hungarians, fake Russians, fake Vlachs, like George Vukadinovic, which is why he got the name Vlah, fake Slovaks, like Mr. Chabradi. We all know that in the present council, etc. I don't want to talk about others anymore. Allow, however, since the Assembly, the Honorable President, is the place where dialogue is being held, I would now like Nenad Canak here in this distinguished home, to have a dialogue, because Nenad Canak said in this high house two days ago, in Thursday – Serbia is turning into a confederation of national communities, and the Serbian national community is the majority community in Serbia. Dear citizens, do you know what he wanted to say? That the Serbs are not a people, but a national community. That's what I was talking about when that AP Vojvodina Act was, and then Mr. Chanka, sitting here, agreed. I have no intention of quoting what one is, what the other is, and so forth. So you know what the national communities in the Republic of Serbia are, and it is known that Serbs are not the national community, but are the people. Secondly, I am pleased, on the other hand, that Nenad Canak here in this high house said that he welcomes the reduction of censorship, quote: "And going out to the elections, because every alternative in the election is the street, and the street means violence, conflicts, tragedy and so on," finished the quote. Now, this is dialogue. I affirm the positive views, the honourable MP, but on the other hand I correct. I'd like to lead, but you see, the problem is with the MPs and this high house, which is what the MPs who are now in the Alliance for Serbia, when they were before the boycott, most of them were, I have exactly by name, just as much or very little time in this high house as they used to say. They were leaving this high house immediately. So we couldn't even conduct the dialogue. The dialogue can be conducted if they are present here, if they are not, then it's very difficult. And allow me, honourable Members of the people, to say in the end. These two laws contribute to peace within our country, so if you want peace in the region, because our country and president is the promoter of pedagogy, let's say as an educational worker, peace and not only in our country, but also in the region and in general. And finally, both these two laws, the President of the Republic of Serbia and his idea, we are alive and proving that Aleksandar Vukic is not just a simple politician, that is what I often talk about in this high house, but he is a great Serbian statesman, reformer, patriot, who will certainly do nothing to harm the Serbian people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the national communities, because his state is Serbia above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70883	Thank you. Olena Papuga, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70884	Thank you, President. I want to talk about that part about national minorities that my predecessor spoke of. You may see it differently in other eyes, but I, as a member of a national minority, can conclude from all of this that the next election of members of national minorities, or parties registered as parties of national minorities, is somehow difficult. It is difficult not to think about whether all national minorities, if we already want national minorities to be represented in this parliament, and there are 30% of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, and there are only 7% of us here in the National Assembly, so we should consider why this is happening? That this law and these amendments, as well as the amendments submitted by members of the Bosniak and Hungarian national communities, MPs, members of those national communities, and these amendments have been adopted, have made it easier to enter only those minorities that are numerous. So, Albanians, Hungarians and Bosniaks. So these amendments made it even easier for them. The first thing to pay attention to is that if they register with the parties of national minorities it is necessary to collect a thousand signatures, and now I ask you, which national, smaller national minority, my national minority, the Russian minority, and there are 14,800 of us, can it collect 10,000 signatures to run for office and to participate in the struggle to join the National Assembly? He can't, because that's impossible. So it is only possible for members, once again I say, of the Hungarian, Bosniak and Albanian national communities to make it easier, in a way, to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The rest of us can either make coalitions or we can get some of our own, members of our national communities on the list of larger parties, so I don't think that's really thought about it. The fact that it is good, it is wrongly proposed, that the running for all parties of national minorities will require confirmation of the National Council which, in my opinion, is quite wrong, because national councils are not state authorities and are not authorized to issue state certificates, to issue certificates of any kind. In a way, it is all against the constitution and would certainly be subject to the Constitutional Court, because it is not in the power of national councils giving national advice to the national community. So, national councils' information is that they care about education, official use of language and letter, culture, information, and that jurisdiction does not exist either in the Constitution and does not exist in the Law on National Councils. So the LSV certainly suggested that they be deleted, that it simply RIK declares lists and decides what kind of list, whether it is complete, whether it is good, etc., that it is allowed RIK to decide whether or not it is in the Ministry of Local Self-Government which also issues and registers the existence of parties, that it is to confirm whether a party of national minorities actually exists, whether it is following the life of a national minority, and that the national council, if necessary, gives only an opinion on whether that particular party of the national community really cares about that national community, on which name is registered. So, I think that certainly the exit of the parties of the national minorities was also needed and the urgent need to be further elaborated and must be improved, because there were, we know, in all the campaigns, elections were a variety of machinations. People used the parties of national minorities to get into contact with them in the National Assembly, and they never knew where the members of those national communities lived. So, I think that this will also challenge the European Commission and that this will be the subject of a variety of discussions in our pre-accession EU accession talks, to resolve the participation of members, i.e. the parties of the national communities in the elections. So, I think what's now done, once again I'm going to say, is done to the well-being of only three national communities and it's only going to be those that will represent their national minorities. I see in a variety of laws that, I'm not just going to say those three great national communities, but maybe those other, bigger ones, they change laws and their amendments are just what suits them. This was also in various amendments, amendments to the Law on National Councils. So, on those laws, those changes were only affected by the big parties, and about us, little ones, they just didn't care. In some ways, they make up the majority in the coordination of national councils and in the Council of National Communities, which is accompanied by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that again the small national communities and in these changes remain lonely and will not be in the next, but also the next National Assembly meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70885	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. The word is Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Dr. Jokic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70886	I wanted to say that this reduction of censorship is actually getting closer to the majority system, especially when it comes to the locale and that's good. The congregations will be more representative and that's good. I personally don't care if anyone comes out or doesn't come out, whether this makes the percentage of those who go out or not, it doesn't matter to me personally. It's important to me, I say, this fact. The second thing, I hear here all the time "this is math, this is math," that's what the previous speaker was saying. It's not math. They listen to it, the students, etc., and they'll think it's a bill. Computer and math, that's two different things. So take care of it. Secondly, this is Viktorov, it's a method of distribution proportional, no remainder, and it's easier to call it Victor's method, and it's true that when a matrix of the largest coefficients is drawn up, in that situation when two of the same factors are obtained, the advantage is that party that gets a larger number of votes. So this is one step in relation to what is going to be, and I think in the future that we should think that in local elections, where there are fewer environments, etc., where the number of voters, let's say, is below 40,000, etc., that this necessarily goes to this majority system, which is a reflection of the mood in the people. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70887	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Now the word has Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70888	Thank you, Chairman. It is generally known that the majority of the dilemma is whether it is a more correct direct or representative democracy, but modern civilization in 99% of cases is a civilization of representative democracy, so there is not even a serious country in the world that has not introduced representative democracy into its parliamentary system. Of course, there are various models and various forms of parliamentaryism and representation of the people in parliament, but it is undeniable that a practice applied in most countries has been established. Basically, the point of representative democracy is that people choose their representatives in parliament, who will represent the interests of the voters, citizens or the electoral body who voted them, but the essence is the same. The MP in parliament is essentially the voters who elected him, and on the other hand, in order to create conditions that would allow parliament to enter as a member of parliament, it is necessary to cross a certain censorship, namely that the candidate for the MP gets a number of votes most often expressed in percentages compared to the entire voting body. So far, we have had 5% planned, but I believe that Mr. Alexander Vukic and SNS's initiative is to reduce the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%, and more than reasonable and desirable, given the number of political entities in Serbia, i.e. The number of political parties, reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, will only allow for the entry of parliament as many parliamentary groups as possible, as well as representatives of national minorities, who so far may not have been properly represented. The reduction of censorship will contribute to more people entering parliament with different opinions and ideas, as well as proposals that hopefully will benefit all of us. We are in a position to allow a large number of political entities to fight for their ideas and political goals and attitudes through parliament and not on the street, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70889	Thank you. The word is Mirko Krlić. Here you go, Mr. Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I simply cannot keep my mouth shut about the words of the amendment promoter and the invitation to the duchy MPs. I come from the AP of Vojvodina, but I am an MP of the Republic of Serbia, I am not a Duchess or a duke, so that some national people would like to present it. Therefore, I represent the Republic of Serbia and all the problems of the Republic of Serbia, and all that, of course, one state should bear and why this parliament exists. Nothing makes Novi Sad any closer to me than Kragujevec, King and Nisha, I love them equally. We in Banat best know what it is when you created that state of Vojvodina, when Zrenjanin disappeared in a month when the "Banatska Banka" disappeared, from which you made "Vojvodjanska" and all capital, when even the volleyball club "Hlek", which with complete leadership was moved to Novi Sad and so many other stories, where Banat was absolutely neglected and damaged by the creation of your country. If you'd like to ask the duchess question, at least once ask the question of returning Baranja to the Duke, where it belongs historically. Maybe they'd support something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70891	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The word has Hope Lazic, I guess a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70892	In any case, I don't want to get into any kind of fight or anything. I will remind you, and when I spoke in principle debate, in Portugal, it says, election units are educated on the basis of the district as a form of territorial organisation. In Denmark, the mandates are formed according to the electoral units of former Earls. So it is simply everywhere that the representation of the region is from where a single MP comes from, not just to represent the interests of his party. The point is, you know your end best. Are you going to let your Zrenjanin make a tire, and without the so-called. Integrated permits, so tomorrow will be some kind of pollution or you'll fight for some other stuff, to build a wastewater treatment system, so that no wastewater goes to the Alexandro Canal. I know local problems, too. But if you come from one of those environments, then you know the best situation there and for those interests, then you fight here best. The point is, not that I'm bringing back any historical boundaries or any such nonsense, it just wasn't my intention. I'm just saying that the organisation of what it is now, or the electoral law that exists now, is that everywhere, in all the electoral venues in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the previous elections you've had, Mr. Vukic was the character who stood at the head of every election list and you practically, not to use an ugly word, hung on to the character of a man with an authentic appearance, and that's how you got the votes. But what's the feature of the system that we're proposing, to be separate units, would really be someone individually, as a colleague once spoke about the individual choice of each MP, rather than proportionally. And there are different ideas, whether it's going to be proportional or to go by name. And there are different experiences. That's why I pointed out when I was talking, that's why we should open the debate. The current model, by which, practically, the entire territory of Vojvodina is drowned, when it comes to the electoral law, throughout Serbia, and when, for example, we as a regional party have no chance of winning 5% or 3% as it is now falling, for the entire territory of Vojvodina, because they simply don't know us and can't represent southern Serbia in the right way, as I can represent the story of the New Sad, the surroundings of Novi Sad or Subotica etc. The point is that all parts of Serbia are equally represented and that what the interests of citizens of all Serbia are heard here, not just certain parts. All representatives from Belgrade could, in practice, be elected. Then we would simply save on travel expenses and no one would have to come from other parts of Serbia if they thought so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70893	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70894	As far as I know, Vojvodina is neither a district nor a region. Countys and regions are something else entirely. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina, for some historical tradition, has been detained in today's system, we still have as AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. Since you're often talking about the specificity of the Vojvodina, about some boundaries of Vojvodina, I don't see what are the specificities between the Banacans and the Bachvans? We don't play the same round, we don't have the same folk costume. When we talk, it's exactly who's from where. In 1941, the occupier divided it into different zones, knowing that we were not the same. Therefore, you are no closer to us, nor are we accepting that we are a common region or a common region, as you said, of the county. That's not gonna happen. It's simply a policy that, at one point, should have, after 1974, been important and, unfortunately, still existed. The Duchess is, by the way, the only area that has no name, because the Vojvodina means nothing like a kingdom and a kingdom. The Serbian Duchy is a name. It gives her a title and it gives her a full name. It's just, you're avoiding saying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70895	Thank you. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70896	I'll be in touch the last time. I don't want to go too far. A lot of big words have been said that Vojvodina does not exist. I hope that when a colleague goes on a campaign pre-election campaign in Vojvodina and starts promising various towers and cities, he will keep this statement from my colleague that Vojvodina is practically a fictional story and that it does not exist. I'm just asking you to look at the existing Constitution, see if it exists or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70897	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. On the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll connect the time by amendment and the time that belongs to me based on the application for a word, so I'll speak for a total of seven minutes if you'll allow it. First, to declare that I am against the boycott of the election, because I don't think the boycott brings political stability, and every country needs state stability. I'm against foreign interventions and meddling in every country's elections, and therefore ours. We saw how it was in 2000. I'm against the change of government on the street, because the coups are causing division in the people and among the citizens. I don't think this party's electoral system is folk. The only national system would be the choice by name and last name of MPs by appropriate electoral units, as citizens could at least participate partially as voters, propose candidates for MPs. They can't do it now and they're not even candidates, not even all party members are, but only party summits and citizens are turned into mere voters. This should be added, if an amendment to the Law on election of MPs is made, and the obligation to go to elections, because the electoral right is not only the right, but also the obligation, but with the creation of appropriate conditions, such as those. an electronic vote for diaspora voters, such as mobile election committees for persons who cannot come from remote areas or are physically in difficulty so that they can come to polling stations, etc. Today, we have an editorial guide, an editorial guide to "Today" who has made it false that the largest investment per worker in Serbia, per man in Serbia who is employed, is 150 000 euros for the Zastava car factory in Kragujevac. That's not true. The biggest investment per employee is here in the Assembly. A hundred and forty-four thousand euros at a four-year level belongs to each party per MP. If we add more money to that given to the parties to cover the cost of the election, this amount exceeds 150 000 euros per employee. What do the citizens get out of it? The fact that they are not voters, but only voters and such a structure sold water sources, sold land, made forests, as a national wealth, and Slovenia returned water as a national resource. We also have permits here for mini power plants that destroy both the environment and the right of people to access water, while at the same time we have this high investment subsidies per job, while e.g. investments that could be far more productive and reduce imports, especially early vegetables and fruits, such as Vranjska Banja where we have a water source of 98 degrees. Energy is today the biggest resource. He's going into the waterway. We have an untapped hotel skeleton with several hundred rooms. The same is the case with the 78-degree Josian spa, and we import vegetables for tourists in the winter period in Kopalnik, as the ski center of Serbia's largest. The same is true with the elections of water in Machva, 50 to 60 degrees etc. Why don't we let the citizens be part of the election? If we have five million voters, divide with 250 MPs, the rate of entry into parliament should be 0.4% of votes received. What's so controversial about that? Is the legitimacy of the assembly collapsing? No, I don't. Who's afraid of diaspora, or people from dispersion? Who fears independent candidates, individuals who would enter the congregation on this basis, etc.? If you have already suggested that the electoral limit be 3%, why is it not 2%? Five times 0.4 is 2%. Next, you say you're making concessions. Yes, but you keep the same criteria that should be provided for the election. Those with 3% must collect 50,000 signatures, as well as those with 12 coalition partners, and won 48.5% of the total vote. When you divide by 12, it's not even 5%. Is that why he reduced this limit? I therefore propose that for a list made up of only one non-partisan candidate, proposed by a group of citizens, or a party of national minorities, I have received the principle support of a representative of a national minority party for this proposal, to be at least 4% of the total number. For a list made up of two non-partisan candidates, proposed by a group of citizens, i.e. a national minority party, at least 0.8 and a list proposed by three candidates, 1.2%. For all other 2% and 2% increase, while for lists with 10 and more votes to be at least 20% of the vote. That's how everyone gets even. I'm sorry that the other amendment, which speaks of the required number of signatures, because the state wants to earn in the elections and from those who can't pay objectively, I don't see why we do it that way. Finally, what is the USS MP here, if I'm not mistaken, Milia, said that another person's arm is not scratching, and I ask the citizens of Serbia whose hand is scratching the itch 43% of the population, i.e. 160,000 owners of family agricultural holdings living on 85% of Serbia's territory, in this National Assembly? That's why I suggest that citizens go to elections and self-organize and choose the best representatives from their local backgrounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70899	Thank you. Just one explanation. You've been using this amendment of yours, which you suggested, to mean one broader form of change, than the proposal itself meant, and that's why it was rejected, nothing else. Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Milija Miletic did say – the arm of the itch is not more common, and he probably meant that saying – it is better to suffer for the village than in the village. The best for the village sufferers who live in the city, train the folk costume and are visually identified as people living in the country. As for funding, I can see they count well, but election lists get money. Bosnia and Herzegovina's political party, together with the DSS, joined parliament. The money for the election list is received by Bosko Obradovic and DSS. That money's not small. I must tell you that every month, Bosko Obradovic gets 21,000 euros and slightly more, 21,000 euros for the political party Dveri. Now calculate 12 months. So they also get money for the mandate of a previous counterpart who says it has nothing to do with the Dvori, but, behold, the money for parliamentary seats is provided by the Republic of Serbia, for the parliamentary list, for the part concerning the politics of the party of the Serbian Dvori or Dvori, as it is already called. So in this way, the MPs to whom they belong are clearly identified, who gets the money, etc. The money was also sought by Djorge Vukadinovic, as I recall. The Democratic Party of Serbia argues it has sought 370,000 dinars, to the extent that it belongs to the monthly electoral list per MP. Since the list won 13, Dvori's parliamentary list was probably given seven, and that's why Bosko Obradovic has seven mandates for a year, doesn't come to the session, gets the salary of a thousand euros, gets the money for an apartment in Dedinj, paid by the Serbian Parliament and at a time when he doesn't do his job, when he doesn't come to work at the National Assembly, and besides, he keeps this 21 thousand euros, which belongs to the political party by making the money, and here we have proved Mr Martinović, Orlic and I, that money is being pumped up to entrepreneurship, which is what Bosko Obradovic finally admitted to doing through Dimovic, Borce, Crepaje, etc. The money is not intended for political leaders, but for the work of the political party, which is why political parties died, because the money was not given to municipal committees, to its representatives, etc. They've already kept it to themselves because they've been washing it through corporate operations for fictitious jobs, and by doing so, Mr. Arsic, they've hidden the tax, they've laundered the money, they've kept it for themselves, and today their MPs are rebelling, and their parties are moving up to 1% because the money by law isn't meant for politicians, it's not for MPs, it's for political parties, it's for regular financing, especially for education and for young people. They didn't do it, they loved everything young people loved, they put money in their pocket, and today they rebel. It's not the state's fault, the state has given everyone equal conditions. The majority of money per MP gets small parties, right, Mr Arsic, far more than the parliamentary groups, the electoral lists that get the highest number of seats. There are fewer parties favored. Ask yourself, how much was the Green Party, Chabradi, the false Slovak party, getting how much money a month from the Republic of Serbia's budget? Far more for one MP, as the number of votes is counted, the percentage, than the SNS, or political parties that have the highest number of votes, received. Em doesn't come to work, em are favored, money doesn't invest in political parties, em still says in the end -- we'll boycott if you don't let us take over without a choice, here we are going to boycott the work of the National Assembly. They simply calculated well, but let Bosca Ljotic and others who kept the money to themselves and did not invest it in political parties for party development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70901	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a large part of the discussion of counterpart Marijan Risticevic, I have to agree, so we are in the Law on the financing of political activities predicting that every political party, or political entity that receives money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, is subject to the work and analysis of the DRI. It means that an independent institution determines that the political parties receiving money from the Republic of Serbia's budget are spending the same money. However, unlike the SNS, where he was a state auditor and established a way of doing business, Bosko Obradovic's political party was not allowed in and I don't think they know where they are. Furthermore, what else do you say to the presidents of political parties who steal money from their political parties? I can say it's one big shame on each one of them. On the other hand, it shows how to behave and if they run the state, they'd steal money again. Doc, he's showing us something else again, because as far as I know, DS is still in debt and blockade. Who's in charge of this DS and brought her into a blockade? Well, that's Dragan Gilas. Now as he treated his foreigner, he treated both the Republic and the state and the city. The same was left in debt by the city of Belgrade, and wherever Dragan Djilas, Solak, Vuk Jeremic, appears, remains a wasteland. That wasteland from the street wants to bring here to parliament to tear down this building again, to burn it down again so they can come back on the chance to kidnap, debt Serbia's citizens in debt, and make it richer and richer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70903	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Risticevic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70904	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, was the State Auditor's very short in Dvori, but then Bosko Obradovic wrote that there is a DRI control that wants to choke Dvori. It's literally like that. Here you go. So, due to some political pressure from Bosko Obradovic, the DRI shortened that stay in Dvori, but found the irregularities that you and I were talking about. No doubt there was abuse, and then Bosko Obradovic fled to Gilas, began to pull signs, use motor saws, enter RTS etc. In order to keep the money unpunished and not be punished for two crimes, it's one tax evasion, because corporate businesses with fictitious jobs, if you do a fictitious job, you have to pay for control when it's established, you have to pay, it's meant as tax evasion because it's also a crime of tax evasion and a crime of money laundering. So, if that hadn't happened, Bosko Obradovic wanted to present it as the political pressure of the regime, went out here for a press conference several times and whistled that DRI's financial control in one political party was choking democracy and suffocating the political party of Dveri and that it was not in any other organisation but was only found him innocent to control it. With that in mind and the knowledge we gave, we filed a criminal report to the D.A. for organized crime. To this day we didn't get an answer, and I understand in part and the prosecution, on this much noise that he was the victim, the repression, God's father, running to Gilas, he gained some sort of complementary immunity. As – you see, you attack Boško Obradovic because he came to Gilas etc. He found salvation by fleeing to the DS wing, fleeing to the wing of Dragan Gilas, etc. Fleeing into that as a larger alliance, joining nine DS leaders, the one who was the biggest opponent of the yellows, DS, etc. In fact, he's been looking for political protection all along for the robbery of money he's committed over a party whose leader he is. Their password – we do not have a leader in the Dvora, because of the money he has robbed has come to this. We have only a leader in the Two. His oath used to be like this, and now his oath to Gilas is like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70905	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The right to a replica has a professor. Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70906	Thank you very much. I once again appeal to the promoters to adopt my proposal that the minimum threshold for turnout is not 3% but to be 2% for political parties or groups of citizens because it is five times 0.4% enough to form a parliamentary group, but also to allow citizens who do not want to be in coalitions, i.e. in parties or groups of citizens to run as individuals and non-partisan personalities. I suggested as soon as we entered the Assembly that non-partisan MPs from all clubs come out and build a club of non-partisan MPs where each of us would retain its full independence. That didn't come up with a response. Why do you avoid returning the right to the citizens so that they can decide who will represent them outside the political party or groups of citizens below the threshold for the parliamentary group? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70907	Thank you, Mr. Chevarlich. Mr. Arsic also answered. Mr. Arsic, would you like a replica or an amendment? By amendment then Marijan Risticevic. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70908	I think Mr. Arsic was right about the replica. I'm willing to support Mr. Chevarlic's proposal, but on one condition. You don't get what you want in politics. You get what others want more than once. Politics is a very complex thing, and I think it's a good thing and it's a good thing that those who are looking for a 2% census at least praise those who have taken the 5% of the census down to 3%, that's enough progress already. I am willing to vote in favour of the motion that the censor should be 2%, but on one condition. To convince voters of their electoral lists, Sandu Raskovic Ivić and Bosko Ljotic to accept these 3%. When his leaders, bearers of the same, accept 3%, I'm willing to vote for his 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70909	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Miladin Ševarlic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70910	As you bind me to the personality of two political leaders who do not currently participate in the activities of the Assembly and who, immediately upon entering the Assembly, have divided the MPs into two parliamentary groups to get two times twenty minutes, as did the strongest political group, and have divided seven, eight, nine or not to know how many parliamentary groups to get so many times in 20 minutes. I don't see why you're asking me to do this. Why doesn't the gentleman who discussed it before me come out under the umbrella of the strongest political party and fight for that 5%. Here I am offering to build a group of citizens by 2% limit if you accept that. I'm not going to 0.4, I'm not going to 0.8, I'm not going to 1.2, I'm going to go to 2%. That is enough for five MPs who will be non-partisan figures from all over Serbia and you will see how citizens will deal. Why are you afraid of them? Why are you afraid of citizens? Is the role of today's debate and amendments to the law to attract as many citizens as possible. Are you talking to the citizens? Not only do young people leave Serbia because of the economic situation. They're leaving the political situation. Also, I promise the citizens of Serbia, if we make a group of citizens where they will be non-partisan candidates, that we will hire every member of parliament in that group based on the money obtained for political parties and groups of citizens participating in the elections at least two young PhDs, etc., to prepare a future political elite, to get acquainted with the work in the Assembly, and to keep at least 250 MPs, two young ones, that is 500 future leaders in Serbia to retain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70911	Thank you, Professor. Replica, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70912	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am grateful for this calling. They say that once I go under the political umbrella of the big parties, I go out on my own. Look, that's what those who never went out on their own say. I'd like them to tell me when, say, the big DS went to the polls alone, I mean when it was fair, that it was the last time, and everything else was in the coalition. That it was the '90s. But, my God, let me put it this way. My political party went out on its own for the elections in 1990, 1992 or 1993, 2004, 2008. My best score, meaning parliamentary plus twice as president, was 2.86% of the vote and was reached in 2003 or 2004 when I was an MP in the National Assembly. That's verifiable. I went out on my own to the elections. I didn't meet the census because he was 5%. I went to the local elections on my own. Now, there's someone here to object to you, who never went to the polls alone. Then he says – we will form an electoral list of a group of citizens of non-partisan personalities etc. What he asked for a replica of the importance of political leaders Bosko Ljotic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić show that he identified himself with them in this election cycle, which is not at all controversial, but he came and objected – we will do something and we will hire, then it will not be party employment, but it will be the election list's employment, which, behold, is not made up of politicians, but consists of non-party figures. You know, what after that celebration of him, when he said that the Association of Serbian Hosts celebrated Vidovdan as a celebration, this is the greatest pearl I've ever heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70913	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Right on the line, Miladin Shevarilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70914	The largest political pearl in the four-year term of this Assembly is that those MPs who were the presidents of the municipalities' assemblies or the presidents of municipalities and councils in 136 congregations, municipalities and cities in Serbia, over 7,000 of them, who were the vote of the Declaration against Imports, Breeding and Processing of GMOs, here at this level vote against the proposal and the same declaration that differs only in one segment, in one article, that the Assembly undertakes that before the amendments of the GMO Act or amendments and additions, a referendum will be called for citizens to be declared. Here's a chance for you now in the elections, call a referendum with only two questions for the citizens of Serbia – are you in favour or against joining the EU? When England comes out and when Serbia is maimed, without the Serbian AP of Kosovo and Metohija should enter the EU, which is nonsensus, against the Constitution and are you in favour of or against imports, cultivation, processing and traffic of GMOs? Are you to return water as a national resource, vital to life, to exempt it from the ban on selling, to be a national treasure? Would you like to return agricultural land as a national treasure? Take Israel as a capitalist state, give 49 years to the tenants. Finally, the biggest political responsibility is that this Assembly is not voting in the minimum 5% budget law for fostering agriculture and rural development. This was also established by the auditor in response submitted to them for the period 2016, 2017 and 2018. Yesterday, on the Committee on Agriculture, I asked for information, you have a video posted on Parliament's site, not the Assembly, because the site is not called "the National Assembly.rs", but it's called "parliament.rs", which is the opposite of the Constitution, the name and meaning of our being and functioning here, because everything that is Serbian must be deleted, as must be erased by concentration camps, as cannot be the Guardian of Citizens, butmann etc. I didn't even get an answer yesterday as to how much funding was spent for incentives in agriculture and rural development in 2019, because we were reviewing the ministry's work in the fourth quarter, is 5% of the budget planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70915	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Risticevic, please. You answered the line, but Mr. Ševarlic didn't mention you. Little does anyone know you were the president of the community council, so I understand why you recognized each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70916	I didn't mention him once, so he realized his rights and I don't mind. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, and I'd like the RTS to pass it on once and get rid of these delusions - the Declaration on the ban on genetically modified organisms. Why? The declaration is not a legally binding act, is it, Mr. Martinovic, is it so, Mr. Arsic, is it so, Mr. Orlic, but the law is a legally binding document. And the law says, it's called the Law on genetically modified organisms, the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, number 41/2009, Article 2: "No modified living organism, nor the product of a genetically modified organism, can be placed on the market, that is, for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia." So no modified living organism, nor can the product of a genetically modified organism, be placed on the market, bred for commercial purposes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia -- the law prohibits, grow and transport on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The law is a legally binding act, the declaration is not. The declaration means, "I stand up for it." If there's something forbidden, then what are we gonna stand for? We advocate that the law is respected, and the declaration is just a politically motivated act of a member of the Parliament to show it as one of its own programme advocates. The law is forbidden and therefore the declaration is completely unnecessary. And it can't be any stronger legally binding document than the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70917	Thank you. I suggest we close this circle of replicas. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. Professor, we've gone a long way from the subject. We started with what he is. Please listen to me, if you can. You started out well with the replicas and the discussion regarding the bill and your amendment, and you went to the GMO declaration. It's absolutely not the subject of this debate. I ask you to continue the debate under the amendment and in accordance with the draft law on the agenda, because this is how we can talk about whatever we want, we won't be able to control the course of the session. Mr Veroljub Arsic reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70918	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and in the debate in principle, and now and in particular, are constantly going through one subject that is related to the electoral system itself, and not to what is proposed, which is a reduction of the censorship. On the one hand. On the other hand, I understand completely fellow MPs who, behold, in the minor evenings of the elections are trying to gain some political point, but I also ask them not to harm the state itself in their discussions. We've heard stories about how the electoral system needs to change, to be majority, even if it's a little combined. I have heard many ugly statements from my fellow MPs about political parties, and even some aspirations that certain regions must have, or provinces, that they must have a guaranteed number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why is the situation like this today? We can say that's not an accident at all. Why does the Republic of Serbia have such an electoral system, too, is not an accident, because you can't just look at one form of government to achieve all those authorities that we have today in the Republic. When someone advocates the majority, single or two-round elections, I have to ask a question - and what about those votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose candidates did not get that necessary majority to enter a representative body, regardless of whether it is a municipality, is the AP, is it a republic? What about those voices? None of the colleagues behind the system responded. What does one representative body need to reflect? The will of citizens who express themselves in the elections. Not something else. Not something in between. It's the only way you don't break one man's rule - one vote. We can also talk about whether a regionalisation of the Republic of Serbia is being carried out in a certain way if the story is to return the electoral units, because there is a need for every local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to have its own MP. That's nice, that's possible, and I don't really agree with that. Because, you know what, the Republic of Serbia has three levels of government -- republican, provincial and local. Each municipality has its own representative body. And if you're going to go to the National Assembly to be an MP from every unit of local self-government, in theory, you're reducing the jurisdiction of that same local self-government and their local parliaments. Because now their representatives are not in the units of local self-government but in the National Assembly. It's the same with the AP Vojvodina. To ensure that MPs from all over Serbia, every region or carrier of autonomy are represented evenly. Then another question arises - and why the assembly of the AP Vojvodina? You can't do both. We can talk about different models that are the issue of the Constitution, whether the Republic of Serbia will be one-home, two-home, etc. But you can't undo the right of all citizens. So one vote - one man. And that's what this electoral system maintains. I understand that someone will and wants to have a guaranteed number of representatives. But then you have to understand that you're taking someone's rights away, because someone's going to have their own representatives in one congregation, and in another, and in third, local self-government. Someone only in two, and someone in none. The other thing is, there's a lot of citizens here, I guess, wanting to arm themselves with political parties. Such a campaign began in 2000 and was the strongest in the period 2013, 2014, 2015, when an NGO received money from a large country to speak, even at a national advertising service, "be a folk rather than a party MP". Remember? They bring down the messengers, today, us, to the malts of the incompetent, foolish people, to whom someone tells what, when and how they should do. Let's go back to the theory of democracy, which is -- what are the bearers of a democratic system in one state? Are groups of citizens? No, they're not. Are these the ones walking around Belgrade? No, they're not. The actors of the democratic system and the development of democracy are political parties. By definition, the political party means a political programme, whether it is at a republican, regional or local level, is a political programme. Don't make fun of the political parties. It's very easy today, but the biggest damage you do to your own society and your own citizens. I guess the aim is to elect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the results of the elections to reflect the citizens' will in proportion to the number of MPs. Anything else, I can tell you, are variations and most often nonsense, nothing else. So, don't break the rules, don't diminish the value of one citizen and favor the other. The only thing I admit is that the rights of national minorities should be favoured, because they do not live in their queens, they feel threatened. Of course, we must make sure that we do no harm to other citizens who do not belong to these national minorities, which, of course, is achieved in dialogue with those representatives of national minorities. Any other discrimination is the loss of democracy and the most common desire of a political summit, which would have been held in the 1990s by electoral systems, when it did not enjoy the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be held in power, and we had that in 2012. One was held in power for four years, and no longer my late grandmother could win the election, he lost all legitimacy and legality. It's Bojan Pajtic. Such would, of course, be with Gilas, Jeremic and Šolak to enter the National Assembly without choice, to bring them into the street. Now choose whether in your discussions you will respect every citizen, and you must have an obligation as MPs, regardless of the city, municipality or settlement you come from, no matter which political group you come from, no matter what social or other group you are delegated from. You must protect the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and of those who voted in favour of your list and those who did not go to the elections and those who voted against your list, I guess that's what we swore. Everything else is often left to try to rekindle the National Assembly from the street and re-emerge this hoax to rob Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70919	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Dr Balin Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment with a correction at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted an amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70920	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment where I suggested that in 15 days after the adoption of the law I could launch electoral actions. I wanted to say once again that I support the SNS proposal and the proposal that Mr Martinovic first said needed to reduce the censorship to 3%, because I spoke earlier and I will always say that it is good in this way that small political parties can pass that 3% censorship and that tomorrow they can represent their environments here in the Assembly. Otherwise, earlier when she spoke to counterpart Nada Lazic, she mentioned me, that I am the one who always talks about where I come from, about people I live with, about the environment and about the district where I live and, normally, about southeastern Serbia. That's what I do because the United Peasant Party, whose president I am, wants to invest much more in our region of Southeast Serbia. Now there's a lot of funding for travel infrastructure, for villages, for roads, but I think that might be more. I have always advocated that more funds be allocated for each newborn child, for unemployed maternity, for marriage communities to be greater separations, for these rural areas, for mountainous and mountainous areas, to provide better living conditions in southeastern Serbia. Normally, I'll always talk about it, because I think the Assembly is where we have to talk about it, not the street. On the street, we can talk, we can listen to objections, we can listen to citizens' suggestions, but here we have to make suggestions and say what they are. The need for our environments is for the problem of all small municipalities to be heard here in the Assembly, not just the Svrljiga, not the White Palanka, not Gadja's Han, not the Meroshina, not the Bolec, but to hear the proposal and the solution in these municipalities with less investment to live better. I think the need for a larger number of MPs to be from such backgrounds, I think the need to be in our Assembly, and I will support it, is a higher percentage of women, or the person of the opposite sex, because from where I come from, the Peasant Party participates in power, has the highest responsibility, where the president of the women's municipality, where the president of the Women's Assembly, where she is the head of the municipal administration of women, where she is the head of finance of women. It's a direct thing where we as the Peasant Party have given support to women, because women are something more valuable and more knowledgeable. Once again, I will vote for the bill. Fellow MPs, vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70921	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Right on the line, Mrs. Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70922	Since my colleague called me, I simply want to point out that he is one of the few examples in this congregation that has always talked about the problems of his local community. This just confirms the rule, which I was saying, that regional representation is, that is, the representation of MPs from the places and regions from which they come, where they will rightly represent the interests of their fellow citizens and fight for their interests, the right approach to what kind of MP they should be. In fact, all those who come from certain backgrounds know the environment best, and they can talk about it best. I would like to see such a congregation in the future and such an approach to the work of MPs, as a fellow nursed now in this assembly, in the end I would like to see. Especially when he commended women, I didn't know that there was a community where women are present in these key places, and of course in such municipalities we don't have a Jutka affair, and like that, they don't drag around in the papers in the bad, but just by the good work. Such municipalities should be much more and much more women in localities who will work in the right way and represent their environments and first of all solve the problems of residents in these areas, and not deal with themselves. That's why it's important to divide the regions. I'm going back to that story that it's important to change that law too and be a regional representation at the right level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70923	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The right to replica has Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70924	Thank you. Here again, always as before, like Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, we support all our people throughout Serbia, we support women, because women are the pillar of our home, the pillar of our household. Politically speaking, when someone is talking about problems, the problem is best felt by the one who lives there. That's why I'm always talking about problems, I'm talking about how problems should be solved, but on the other hand, I have to be realistic, that the United Peasant Party is a small party, that we have over 60 committees, but that here I entered the Assembly with the support of people who think alike, but on the other hand, the policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, is a policy that gives opportunity and strength to all of us here in Serbia and I will continue to support Mr. Vukic's policy on all the things that are positive for both south-east Serbia and our villages and for all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70925	Thank you, fellow Miletic. According to the amendment, there was a squirrel named Radeta. Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70926	The proportional electoral system, where Serbia is one electoral unit, is the absolutely best solution to conduct and hold elections in the Republic of Serbia and the MPs elected by the will of citizens in the National Assembly, are all citizens. No one can know if from a certain number of citizens, who voted for a particular political party, that someone from a place in their place won so many votes, and that's him. It's simply not possible, it's not real. There's a way that there's a constant thesis that the MP represents the environment from which he came. I do not like to hear the Messenger speak and say, "I come from there and from there." No, I am a People's MP and I represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I here with the SRS programme, someone else's programme, I fight for interests and for the better life of all Serbian citizens, no matter where they live. What kind of regionalization? Someone says every municipality doesn't have a representative in the National Assembly. That's another problem. We have an amendment that we are trying to restore the possibility that the parliamentary lists will determine the order of MPs on the basis of the number of mandates won, not to do so by the RIK, according to the pre-determined list. It also has nothing to do with the regionalisation, which in Serbia cannot exist and has nothing to do with presenting a certain local self-government. Local self-government, the interests of citizens in local self-government, the resolution of their communal problems is being taken care of by the council, and in the National Assembly, we make laws here, laws are being passed here, laws are being debated here on the bill's proposals. The law that applies absolutely to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and it is completely irrelevant whether this citizen from Kragujevac, from Zemun, is from where I am from, from Ruma, from where Martinović, Novi Sad is from, where Mircic is from, that I do not now, is completely irrelevant, because we are passing laws, we express our political views on government proposals, I repeat in the interest of all citizens. I'm really saying this, first of all, because of the public that people don't get the wrong impression, see from our place we don't have a national MP at all. You have respected citizens wherever you live in Serbia, you have a People's MP, you have 250 MPs who have an obligation to advocate national interests, for state interests, for the interests of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, wherever he lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70927	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has Hope Lazic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70928	I just want to mention, in the principle debate, I spoke examples of other countries, such as Spain or Italy, where the Spanish Parliament is a two-domain, it is made by Congress and the Senate. According to the Constitution of Spain, the Senate is home to territorial representation. The constitution also regulates the way senators choose on a regional principle, so this principle enjoys constitutional protection, then, too, when it comes to election for Congress, the representation is citizens, it also takes care of the regional principle, and that this principle is also adopted. Italy has the same principle, it's all on the regional principle. It means equal, regional representation, or the presence of MPs in the Senate, or whatever that body is called. The Dutch Parliament also represents citizens and is also elected according to the province principle. So, this principle by region, the representation of the region exists across many countries and why would the Republic of Serbia be different than other countries that are far more developed than Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70929	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70930	We have no reason to compare ourselves with anyone because we have a real and certain practice, and from a renewed multi-party in Serbia we have the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and most importantly we have experience. Experience with several constituencies, and with the majority chamber system and so on, has shown that this does not actually show real power, first of all, political parties, and political parties are according to our Constitution, something that must be respected and that represents the sovereignty of citizens and constant attempts to make some freaks out of political parties. Imagine, someone's the president of a political party and he says, he's going into some alliance now, he's going into someone I don't even know a group like this or one to weaken the power of parties. No, political parties respond to citizens, political parties present themselves with their political programmes to voters. It is the voters who assess how many votes they will assess at a certain point, a particular political party. Political parties must not be afraid of these results so that because of some potentially better result or any more vote, they change their political platform, talk to each other, work each other, etc. Serbian citizens deserve politicians, political parties' representatives to speak sincerely to them, to tell them honestly how they want to solve their every problem and to sincerely present their political agenda. When it comes to our electoral system we repeat, the SRS position is a proportional electoral system, Serbia as one electoral unit and perhaps one day for who knows how many dozens or hundreds of years we will be at another political level, the level of political consciousness, and now in the era of flying, changing parties, changing parliamentary groups, anything that would be below this would be a rule of chaos and it would be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70931	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The First Amendment with Correction was submitted by Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70932	We submitted this amendment due to a very sensitive issue and we had, and this started with the most election cycles in 2012 and 2008, so, before that, manipulation in running for so-called. minority parties that aren't really. Then we could say it's at the level of some political incident. However, it did not, it became a rule for individual mechanics, colourful biographies, some political, so-called predators who would only get hold of the National Assembly allegedly under the name of some minority political party, are actually people who don't care about any minority rights at all. The Serbian Radical Party has always shown very great attention to the rights of national minorities and their integration into the political system of the Republic of Serbia and to the renewed multilaterals, therefore, more precisely than the elections when they were in proportion to the election system in 1992, from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through the province Assembly, and later local self-government, we have always made sure that in all areas where there are and where national minorities live, they are also on our electoral lists. For those political parties that are national minorities, who want to go on their own and who have so-called "national minorities". The natural threshold for entering the Assembly is necessary to accept two amendments to the SRS in order to avoid such abuses in the future. You thought you solved the problem, however, you didn't. The Republic Election Commission, according to your proposal for a law, by issuing a conviction by the National Council of National Minorities, confirms that they are in fact, and that is not good. You had in front of the public the situation of Rasim Ljajic entering an open coalition with Esad Djudjevic, who later shortened his last name to Djudz and Sulejman Ugljanin, which calls for the destruction of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and that they form the Bosniak national council so even with terrible messages that it will burn Novi Pazar, that Kosovo is independent and such is truly anti-constitutional and scandalous things. You kept your mouth shut while the SRS warned that it was a fine choice and that you were looking at it all and not responding. And now it takes someone who is a representative of that same national minority to go to Djuja President Juja to give him confidence or this Ljajic's, because Ljajic Rasim has two parties. He has this one that is on the back of Alexander Vukic, and this is how Vukic generously gave them 10 mandates in the Serbian Parliament, the SDP of Serbia. But they have another party, which is the Sandzak Democratic Party, that's his local party there, a minority party, where he's going to run as such, which is not the middle of the problem, as far as the censorship is concerned. So in order to prevent all these abuses, accept this amendment and later co-worker Nikolic, that the Ministry responsible for the registration of political parties issue this assurance, because it is known how many certified signatures of citizens it takes a thousand to register a party, as a minority, and that in the name of that list as an amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group, the one we are talking about must write the name of that national minority. Everything else is abuse, mockery, and I repeat the violation of the right and right of national minorities and manipulation of the electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70933	The MPs of the SDPS parliamentary group, Natasa Mihailovic Vacic, together submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70934	Thank you, Chairman. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, without any doubt, absolutely supports preventing all abuses of national minorities' parties in the electoral process and there is no dilemma. Our question is only – is the proposed solution the right way to prevent these abuses? And we have shown concern that perhaps new and greater abuses could be opened that would later reflect the work of the National Minority Council itself. In fact, we wanted to contribute to the improvement of this legislative proposal by respecting the proposal's intention, but also its openness during the public hearing to support and respect all good arguments, and, as a coalition partner, to improve the existing solution, we have proposed one, which can be long-term and sustainable when it comes to national minorities' parties in the election process. Namely, the Law on National Councils, National Minorities, the National Council has been designated as an organisation that deals exclusively with education, culture, language and letter and certain issues in those areas, with a view to achieving the collective rights of national minorities in those areas. Therefore, the National Council under the law has no jurisdiction to bring any kind of confirmation. It is not good to give advice by other regulations to an additional jurisdiction, without first extending it to the Law on Councils of National Minorities. Thus, the Law on the Worlds of National Minorities states that only registered political parties of national minorities can run in the elections. What does a registered party of national minorities mean? It is run by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Public Register of Political Parties. Each party shall register and obtain the position or status of a national minority. The problem is that there are many abuses and what we say on yesterday was 123 of the party registered in that public register, 74 parties that plead as parties of national minorities, which we doubtless and we have convinced ourselves in 2016. So there are a lot of abuses and parties that are falsely represented in the election process, to cheat the system and thus deceive the citizens of Serbia. In 2016, we had a situation where the leaders of such a list publicly admitted that, and if they are registered as a national minority party, they are not interested in representing the interests of the national minority, but rather in cheating the system and crossing the natural threshold and taking advantage of all the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the parties of the national minorities and their participation in the elections. That's what we need to stop. The approval of the National Council is not a good solution, absolutely, because the advice does not have the right to do so. On the other hand, RIK has no clear criteria in which, as well as the Council of National Minorities, it will determine exactly, and there is no jurisdiction, so it is unclear how it will determine whether the party seeking an opinion is truly intending to advocate minority rights, especially as I stated in the principle debate, if it has said about the parties that are registered before the elections, so they did not live in practice and in everyday political life, so that we knew at all what their intentions are and whether they are true. Therefore, it is necessary if we want to fully prevent abuses, to seek a sustainable and long-term solution, it is contained and will show time in the alignment of the Law on Political Parties and in the registration of political parties and in the Law on National Minorities itself. So our idea was to point out, the intention and idea of the promoter is clear to prevent abuse. We are absolutely for it, because there are, there were, there must not be, there must be no National Council elected directly, in direct elections or in electronic assemblies to decide on the status of a competing party to come forward and ask for confirmation. We have absolutely no dilemma about it, this is all about, and our goal is to prevent abuses that will create many new problems in the future in the work of national councils of national minorities, and that the problem must be resolved both at the level of the registration of political parties and at the level of the register, the sea. In what way, we're going to see this, because if it stays like this, there's a danger that RIK will, in some cases, seek advice and respect it, and in some case, not. When exactly on the basis of and on what basis, RIK will ask the advice of that opinion and when it will not, and when it is, the Administrative Court, as we also had the case in 2016, has taken the view that one party to whom the status of national minorities has been disputed has been granted that status and the Administrative Court has ruled, and if, as we all know, it has been a party that has abused the position of the national minority party, because it has been falsely represented as a party that absolutely had nothing to do with what are the issues of protection of national minorities, so that our amendment has been directed and only one contribution to the sustainable and long-term prevention of the abuse of national minorities parties in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70935	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70936	Thank you, President. I just want to refer to my colleague Natasa Mihailovic's comment, in that part it turns out to confirm, I want to say that the certificates are wrong, the wrong interpretation and the wrong approach is because it turns out that the party is issuing the party's confirmation and the party decides whether a particular party can go to the elections. All national councils, firstly, are deeply politicized. Second, the parties of the national communities go to the national council elections. The parties and national councils and water mostly the majority in national councils. I'm not going to list now, but in Hungarian, Bosniak, and some other national councils, national minorities and water parties, and national councils, they have a majority. In some other national councils, through various queens, associations and so on, some of our majority parties have anchored national councils and led national councils there. According to all this confirmation is a very wrong thing and it turns out that the parties will issue certificates to other parties, and they are obviously coming out of all of this that the parties of the national communities can in some way be disputed, there may simply be some animosities among them, so it will be very difficult for the national council to issue a confirmation to a party that is opposing him. Thus, these certificates should certainly be abolished and all RIKs, which can sometimes request an opinion from the national council and that the national council should give an opinion on whether the national party cares about members of the national communities on the contact it is registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70937	Thank you. Now we will come to that amendment, which corrects what you've discussed. He has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment... (Nataša Mihailović Vacic: Replica. Very short. ) Let me tell you, yes, you have submitted the amendment, I will give you within the framework of the amendment because this was an opinion, not something that fits the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70938	Thank you. Yeah, it's an amendment, and my colleague called me directly, so I just don't understand how to understand this discussion. Is that support for everything I've been saying? Oh, yeah. Okay. It's okay. That's it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70939	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade, according to this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70940	We have also submitted amendments to this and to the next member, but the amendment that the colleague was now talking about is a prominent problem, but we have offered a solution. You know, in the National Minority Councils Act, there is no jurisdiction that tries to give these laws to those councils. We simply can't pass a law that's in collegiate with, let's say, basic law dealing with national minorities. In addition, there are national minorities in Serbia who may want to participate in the elections and have not participated in the elections for national councils of national minorities. Then who will give them confirmation that they really represent their national minority? For example, the Czechs around the White Church then declared that they did not want for some of their reasons to participate and they do not have national advice, and they may want to participate in the elections for the National Assembly. What are they going to do about it? We can't even give RIK jurisdiction that they don't already have. When it starts, when elections are discussed and the election cycle starts, then there is no room for any assurances, certificates, to include national councils in the election cycle, except that, of course, all political parties and national minorities and those who cannot go to elections can run if they meet the requirements, if they provide 10,000 certified signatures, and since the day of the election, it is lost that you are trying to impose this law as an obligation both RIK and national councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70941	Just to remind everyone that we are talking about a law relating to the choice of MPs. It's our matter. Locals are the third point. There's been a discussion. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution, the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70942	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I also want to thank the legislators of this law who have had the understanding that, in these elections, the authentic party of representatives of national minorities must have the same chance and that this amendment removes the possibility of this being prevented thanks to the national councils which are politicised bodies and which, in the most frequent number of cases, and mainly in the Bosniak National Council, is a constant. It is decided by those who are hostile to Bosniak national parties who want to go to these elections and who have already announced some kind of boycott. It would be really difficult for national parties of national communities, especially Bosniaks, to have their authentic lists and their representatives. Also, our amendment regulated that RIK could request the opinion of the national council, not necessarily, and in those cases when it gets the impression that such an opinion is necessary in order for a list to be considered a national community list. This also opens the door to all national parties, so that national communities can participate in an equal pre-election, electoral race that they can advocate the exercise of the rights of their national community and thus best represent the needs of their citizens and fight for their collective and individual rights. We are very pleased that this amendment has become an integral part of the law and will in every sense be able to pave the way for most authentic political parties of national communities to have their authentic representatives in parliament and thus best represent the interests of their citizens. On my personal behalf and on behalf of academics, Muamer Zukorlic, I would really like to express my satisfaction and thanks again to all who have contributed in this way to the political parties of the national communities being treated equally and having equal opportunities to enter an election race with full capacity and without these difficult circumstances which were concerned when the basic bill was before us. Thank you. (Nataša Mihajlović Vacic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70943	Thank you. Natasha, your group has wasted their time. Only Branislav Jovanovic, president of the group and deputy, or vice president of the group. Ivan Bauer spent his time with the group. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Fatmir Hasani and together Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, the MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70944	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to prevent any possible abuses when it comes to the participation of national minorities in the electoral process, we have also had to intervene in this bill of law, as well as in the proposal for a law on local elections. Namely, whether an electoral list, i.e. the applicant of the electoral list, has the position of the party of the national minority, is decided by the RIK by a special solution when declaring the list, and on the basis of a certificate issued to the applicant by the ministry responsible for enrolment in the Register of Political Parties. It is known that we as a party advocate the protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities when it comes to their guaranteed rights, and we believe that the ministry is responsible for issuing certificates, not national councils, as proposed here, in whose jurisdiction it is not. As explained in this amendment, the Ministry of Registration takes note of the registration of minority parties and their assurance is only relevant to determining whether a political party has a national minority position or not. As I said we have always been to protect the rights of national minorities and our lists have always been members of national minorities, however, if they want to go out on their own, we insist that every minority party in its name has a national minority name, and that there must be at least two-thirds of the members of the national minorities on each party's list, because we have witnessed that there have been many abuses in previous election cycles, so minority lists mostly included members of the majority people. So we ask you once again to accept this amendment, because this is the only way to prevent all possible abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70945	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. Does he want a word? He's not here. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70946	When it comes to this amendment and the addition of the law, the public is under the impression that this is a charity given by the ruling coalition. It is simply not possible to remove that impression that, behold, it is the good will of the ruling coalition to reduce the censorship to 3%, so it has allowed many political parties and for the sake of the greater coverage of political parties, i.e. the differences to be present in parliament, but what is being said here is that some SNS MPs directly address us to Serbian radicals that it is because of us, and not even 1% of us would be enough. How come I don't understand so much concern for Serbian radicals at all? Is it because these Westerners are calling you radicals again? Do you mind? Is that some kind of problem for you? Don't worry, we're not ashamed of that name, and you can't get rid of it. What parliament will look like, who will cross the censorship, who won't, so the citizens of Serbia will decide, but there is something that is very indicative and what is continuity, which is to act as if the right of national minorities is your personal property, so you give some national minority a greater right and some less. That's how Boris Tadic worked. When he had the will of the SVM, he had all the benefits, when he didn't, then he had the Democratic community of the duchy Hungarians. Well, you can't do that in politics. You here accept the amendment proposed by the SVM. It's literally a drink. It's not based on something that makes sense. Don't play with it. It should also be when it comes to the selection of MPs and when it comes to the election of councilors. It should be something that is acceptable for most political parties, and you here simply, now suit you with some coalition partner, who would possibly be a representative of the will of the national minorities, you immediately give all the benefits. Think about what kind of complications this might cause in the functioning and parliament, and at local and regional levels, and we Serbian radicals only warn that this is not something that came out of well-meaning or humanitarianism, but something that forced real thinking about the political situation in Serbia and when you're already talking about some objectivity, and you were supposed to be objective when these people in Europe pressed you, pressured you, and you accepted everything they suggested, so you have some illogicalness in these accepted proposals that you can't implement.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70947	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70948	Since October 2018, we have been asking for the amendment of the Law on the selection of MPs by returning to the law the provision of Article 82(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which precisely states that the MP is free to unrevocably place his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal has been elected as a member of the People's Parliament. So, you, not you, but before you did, but you're not going to make it right, so you're the same, you're actually taking away the freedom of the MP, the freedom guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then you're talking about some democracy, some respect for human rights, and so on. If you truly want to do something to make these choices as fair and fair as possible, we will tell us later what else you have to do, and what has nothing to do with this law, but with real life, but also that after these choices we have an orderly National Assembly, a congregation in which we will no longer have flyers, in which we will not have an MP in one party who is darkened, in another. We can only protect ourselves with the Constitution, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says this should be regulated by a special law. You don't want to. We don't understand why? Every time spoken in general, you all think it's not good to run from party to party, you all call out flyers, Marines, Sanda Raskovic, this one, that one, and you won't do anything to make it go away. This only speaks of your hypocritical relationship with everything that you are actually doing by force, and you have no sincere intention of correcting anything in this election process or in the next assembly of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70949	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70950	At the end of 2019, the makeup of electoral legislation began, and what we now have on the agenda could be said to bring some new quality, and this is the descent of the censorship from five to three percent. I think there's a lot of dictated things here. Of course, it will bring a new quality, but it should be careful not to turn it into your opposite, which is very easily possible. What we have amendedly insisted here as an SRS is that after the elections have been completed, after confirming the mandate to the MPs and when the parliamentary groups begin to be formed, that one parliamentary group may be equivalent to the parliamentary election list. We have had countless times in the National Assembly that MPs who were on the same electoral list create a possibility for a replica. It is one skill that does not improve the quality of this Parliament's work. Corruption is also known in democracy and is largely being conducted at the time of the elections. It is also known that some small errors and irregularities can have a more serious impact on the final election result, and even if there are irregularities that have not been detected, it has not started the process of processing, it can cause dissatisfaction with voters, it can reduce their interest in going to the polls. Serbia does not have a percentage of the turnout that we could be satisfied with. Here you should seriously see what the problem is and in this sense change this electoral legislation. There's one interesting thing that got in my eyes like that, which you might say. We were supposed to elect the presidents of Serbia's courts. There was a proposal for a meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and then, at that session, that item was not put on the agenda. I fully agree with the argument that there is a certain number of candidates who are not worthy of acting as president of the court, but if no judge is chosen, nothing but a thinking man just comes to mind that it is that judges...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70951	MP, we'll talk about it at the next session. Now, please, let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70952	Here, President Aleksandar Vukic remembered to be good to the citizens of Serbia and told – instead of five or three percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70953	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is a good proposal, a proposal that goes, I mean the law, I don't mean the proposed amendment, a proposal that goes in terms of more representativeness of the national will in the National Assembly. I think that is precisely said, because the less there are those who do not get enough votes from citizens in parliament, the more representative Parliament will be and the more will work in the interests of Serbian citizens. Parliament represents a people's will and therefore needs the people's will to be present in it as much as possible. This way by reducing the census from 5% to 3%, we do it. I don't think, of course, that in this situation today, and we're not passing this law for these upcoming elections, but we're hoping for something that will last longer because we have different systems, let's say, in the Netherlands, the censorship is a natural threshold, that's 0.67%. This means that anyone who is capable of winning as many votes as it costs, to say, to use that term, how much is one MP in the number of votes or to win as much as it takes for one MP, they enter parliament. So, there's no Dont, there's no reckoning who's underneath, or if there is, there's very little. Whoever wins enough votes to have one MP enters parliament and 15 lists enters the Netherlands and there is no problem. The story is that there would be too many lists in parliament, too many parties, so we have 5% of the censorship system as many parties in parliament anyway? We don't know for ourselves, there are as many of them as you want because we make such lists, coalitions, we want to respect the will of sometimes and ideologically weak parties, friends, coalition partners at different levels of regional specificity in Serbia, esnafic. Here, let's say, we have two parties of peasants on the list that would have been very difficult to break through to parliament with a centigrade of 5%. At 3%, it's already more likely to do something like that. So, SNS, yes, at this point it seems to be partly losing because of it and that the only one essentially sacrifices is in this way part of what would be its final result after the election, but I am convinced, given the situation and the mood of the citizens and those who think that the SNS alternative, that SNS will even win much more than before under 5%, because SNS does not go into the election with the calculations of Dont and what it will win after, but enters with its programme, enters with the results of the work it had, with everything that has been done to change our society. We enter with already several years, we can say, budget surplus, with hundreds of kilometers built highway, single-digit unemployment unlike the previous period, economic progress, salary growth, pension growth, predictability as well as growth in the next period, predictability regarding investment, biggest investment, 60% of investment in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70955	You're right. Please, if I have warned the previous MP, I must warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70956	We don't think about a 5% and 3% censorship, we're thinking about absolutely winning these elections and winning much more than we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70957	Thank you. You're right. On Article 3 of the amendment, MEP Maja Gojkovic submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Sasa Radulović, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Milly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70958	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to the parties of national minorities on how to formulate, to supplement, which is how I wanted to support that the parties of the national minorities are really effective, that they can work, have support and normally respect them in the right way. We have seen backwards that there have been a large number of abuses of the parties of national minorities, where MPs who pretend to be those nationalities entered the Assembly, but that has nothing to do with it. I think it is good to now change this law about a part of the party of national minorities, to support national councils in that part, and that tomorrow they can go to the elections of all those national minorities who can support the national council and thus be active, to enter the Assembly, to support politics for all their people. I can say one more thing, because if it goes on as it has been and we don't change this, specifically people, peasants, they're really people who are in the hardest situation. The hardest situation is in the village, the hardest living, the worst conditions. That's what we have to do to make it better. Now if this were to continue, we could represent myself as a Serb peasant, that would be my nationality, a Serb peasant. We will find a sufficient number of such people who have thus declared themselves a Serb peasant and will create a national minority party, normally, to go to the elections, would have made it easier to enter parliament, rather than where 5% was now, and now it will be 3%. I think it is the right thing for national councils to say what they should say about which party is the national minority and that the party can go to parliamentary elections tomorrow, get support, enter parliament and represent the interests of the national minority. That goes for local self-government. Once again, I will support the bill proposed by Professor Martinovic for the election of MPs and for everything we have said earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70959	Thank you. How come "Serbian peasant" and "national minority" didn't understand my colleague? The word is Studenka Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70960	Thank you, Your Honor, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard various opinions that in the principle of debate and in this in particular, of not having to make math out of choice, that more attention should be paid to citizens. First of all, the election itself is nothing but pure mathematics. It gathers how much vote has been received and thus determines the representation of a particular entity in the political circle. The second and most important thing is that the reduction in censorship from five to three percent is precisely aimed at citizens, or voters in Serbia. Those whose representatives could not reach those five per cent to hear their voice in parliament or local parliaments. Their attitudes and ideas here we couldn't hear. Now these Serbian citizens will be allowed to run for their representatives to represent their interests and views in the elections. SNS is the biggest party, actually the only one that is several times larger than the first next in size. That's what we're dealing with. We want to face opinions in parliament, or institutions that are set for it, rather than on the street. Politically, it is a place in parliament and the interests of Serbian citizens are being realized here. There's so much media space here that in a live program anyone can say what he thinks and what he's done for this country and for its citizens. That's why it's supposed to be found here that spreads the circle of representatives of the people. That's why we suggested reducing the censorship from five to three percent. One more thing, in order to be someone's representative, you must be chosen by that group. I heard an opposition colleague on a television show saying he represents non-election citizens, which is really funny. This proposal enables citizens to legally select representatives who will represent their interests, not to be imposed on them by representatives who did not even participate in the elections, and then by buying some parties or individual MPs, they have come to a number of people in parliament and through these MPs they have their own interests. That's how they deceive citizens. So this is a change in favour of democracy, in favour of the citizens of Serbia, in favour of a quality policy that should be conducted exclusively in the institutions of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70961	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Election of People's Legislators You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70962	Just one short sentence. Since there were MPs here, our colleagues, who say someone needs to fight for censorship. Serbia's radical party doesn't care about censorship. The goal can be to reach a certain percentage of the vote. We aim at Serbia and the interests of Serbian citizens, above all, and that comes first. Everything else about policy-making comes as some tool for achieving certain goals. When it comes to the concrete bill, it mainly refers to the proposal that both the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government units be at least 40% of the less represented sex. For now it's in Serbia, you might say, I don't know that there have been different cases, are mostly women. This reminds me, I was born at the time and lived in such an environment, when it was a key, a national key, and then it had to be a Serb, once a Muslim, once a Croat. Very often, it gave some wrong personnel solutions, only with the goal of being a member of that nationality. And here we can get into this situation, and we know and every responsible factor should make sure that the best, and certainly the women that exist at a certain percentage, and we heard here in the discussion that it's about 51%, that they take up so many places. This provision, we suggested that it be deleted, because it's quite inaccurate. In one part of that article, it is said - there must be 40% less represented in the election list in the order of the list, and then it is said that in all ten places four must be less represented sex. Although the ten ends, then there's no dilemma, with what this can be, we still have to express our suspicion that perhaps the best candidate may be a woman, but it's not in the first place, not even in sixth place. This is just trying to do something, maybe be inventive, and basically it's not like that. What happens if the tens don't end, so there's no 50 councilmen, but he's 49, he's 47? Then maybe you don't have to put any less represented half of them in here. There's one interesting thing, many of my colleagues remember. Madam President, can I have one quote? I can mean it. Thank you. One MP says -- while we are here discussing electricity efficiency in Kosovo and Metohija, people have no electricity. The chairman says, "I take away your word." Well, then that MP starts again -- while we are here discussing the electricity efficiency of Ko, thinking in Kosovo and Metohija have no electricity, the chairman says -- another reminder. The chairman was Gordana Komic, and the MP was me. This is standing right here inscribed. I cannot believe someone who was ready at the time that Kosovo and Metohija should not be mentioned, that they should not punish the MP for that, that now they want something more to the citizens, as you would say, Serbia, but rather what the SRS MPs want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70963	Are you saying this has something to do with gender equality and that you blame women for not knowing we're doing a good job in politics? Maybe it's better if you didn't quote. The first legislator has a word, then Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70964	Thank you. The amendment proposed by MP Sreto Peric is not accepted. Only comments on the argument for the amendment. In order to divulge any doubt as to what the basic provision laid down in the draft law amending the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments means. When you tell someone 40% and when you say ten, there must be four, as well as just before the MP who explains his amendment, asking for that provision to be deleted, he says – but then the first six will be men. Oh, what? What's the problem if the first six are women? Then men are less represented sex. And that's the argument we've heard, quite correct, on one side by revealing the hypocrisis when it comes to sentences – we want women in politics, on the other hand mostly Members of the Women's Parliamentary Network, who are faced with the reality that regardless of all the regulations in all the political parties and everywhere there will be the will to eliminate them, they say - let it go, they will settle. I know that policy is being set up, but I know that it is not good for political parties or for Serbia, and that the dialogue in which we have exchanged all these views is very good for both political parties and for Serbia and for the future composition of local congregations, which we will talk about in point 4 and especially for the composition of the National Assembly. Why is language a miracle when it comes to every subject, even when it comes to people? But that's what we're used to. We are a society that wants to talk about people and gossip about problems and societies that very rarely and very reluctantly face reality. The reality is that the resistance to the presence of women in politics is enormous in both women and men. The reality is, too, that you have to correct it by law. What's a good reality? We learned something from years behind us where many men and many women struggled to change it. This debate is an example. It was mine to submit a bill, but it was up to the speaker of the assembly to be in the debate with the agreement of the president of her party. And that would be good to remember for all the future topics that are essentially difficult for society, which you're changing the offended social ties, in this case the birth relationship, about someone knowing where the woman's place is. You see that in the first reaction, if you write in the first ten is four less represented sex, then everyone knows they're the first six men. It's not good for men, it's not good for women either. The dialogue is what gave us a better solution to remove any doubt about the order on the list. And that better solution wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for members and the Women's Parliamentary Network and many fellow men who approve. Some still meet you, and they say – I support it, but don't let me do it publicly, and others, braver, more aware of themselves and less afraid of their own male identity say that publicly and deserve respect. So when it comes to order, I'm going to tell you about the acceptance of amendments that make that provision every five places have two less represented sexes. It's clear, no doubt, and it doesn't produce or produce any less conflict over where I'm going to be on the list as a man. A dialogue involving women and men with a question -- where I belong, I follow through a few comments during my fight for quotas, various. The first was just to be 25%, optional, the second was in 2010, to be in each third place a less represented sex and the third is now. I hope to cheer for one of you who will trade this member of the law by changing the law by 50-50 percent. There's a natural order here. And that proves to you that the 50% quota is the only natural quota. Mother nature arranged us to be 50% men and 50% women. But the first reactions when you're trying to change the offensive in a society that produces injustices per woman were very common among many men of our friends in political parties who have had a reaction -- it takes my place. And who gave you this place, my friend? How is this your place? He says it's natural for me to be on the list, to be a councilman, to be an MP. It's not natural, it's a social agreement which is the production of injustice. It is therefore important that, through dialogue in this Assembly, much has happened in the principle of the search, which can be called debuilding of anger, when it comes to the injustices that women are experiencing, and when it comes to the huge resistance that this injustice is easily corrected, is really correct. The reason why I don't accept the amendment is because the argumentation of the amendment stands with how we view power in society. These amendments and draft laws that mean greater participation of women in politics do a wonderful thing with power. It can be power over someone and it can be power for something. The power over someone is the power of a man because he's physically stronger than a woman. Power over someone is power over the opposition. The power over someone is the power of the parents, because it is the authority and the physical strength of the child. Whenever you use power to be power over someone, you produce some injustices. We've already made a big change in the principle debate. All the power we have individually as MPs, the institutional power of the ruling coalition, we have used in power for something, not power over someone. This power of the position you have of competence, which you have the integrity you possess, has been used in the will for a dialogue that changes the existing provision, in the will for a dialogue that accepts the amendment and the will for a dialogue that this law will, when applied for elections this year, introduce at least 100 women Members of Parliament. If there's any reason, there might be 110, maybe 120, maybe 100 men. It was up to us together to create space, legal, clear, in which it could happen. And that is the essential reason why I do not accept this amendment, because it retains the existing form, and the existing form is only a step, as well as a 40% quota for future parity, for 50% of women and 50% of men in all decision-making places, because 50% of the future belongs to both women and 50% of Serbia's future belongs to both men. It is unreasonable not to use the resources of knowledge, will and desire to contribute to the institutions that women in Serbia represent. It's unreasonable because women are ready for it. Our common message of using power for something, for a change that will change society through institutions, is also a message that we should think carefully and that we should send women to deal with politics, because politics and women's work. I don't know what the composition of the future Serbian Parliament will look like personally, but I know there won't be 250 shades of gray, black, but there will be color. And in that sense, I remain in the position that I do not accept the amendment of MP Sreta Periæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70965	Thank you. I gave you time from the MP's group. The word is Maria Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70966	The chairman, I'm sorry, I've applied for the next amendment, as an applicant. I didn't want to comment right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70967	All right. The word is Snow White Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70968	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, taking into account the current law and the real situation here in the National Assembly, which is more significant than the current legislative solution, as well as the proposal for a new legislative solution to approach an optimal scale and to seek an optimal solution that represents only a legal minimum, and does not prevent the number of representatives of the gentler sex from being greater. That's what form is, which are legal solutions, which are some minimums. What is what we have now? Here, I will start with our parliamentary group and I must tell you that in the nine-six-six-seat PUPS group there are women, six members of the gentler sex and three members of the stronger sex. With all due respect to my colleagues and colleagues, based on years of life and experience, this party has decided to give a chance to a greater number of women in our political life, and all of this in the light of the importance, role and power of women in society in general. We welcome the high awareness and responsibility of the promoter, not only of this but also of the whole set of laws that we are discussing today and the desire to draw closer to one natural relationship of these forces and representations, both in political and social and life in general, in society at all. We as a parliamentary group will give full support to these proposed solutions to the full set of laws, especially this, but what else I want to draw attention to is that woman in Serbia today who, during the transition, lost her material existence, without legal protection and who needs help, both legal and material. For this we need to find ways in future legal solutions, to provide support, as well as to that woman in the village, who lives there and does very difficult jobs, both in the garden, in the field, in the orchard, in the meadow, and in the growing and nursing and small and large animal that this household has. Now, she needs, too, legal and material support and help, so that she can carry out all her obligations and preserve her basic role and contribute to making our family strong, stronger. If we have all women in all segments of life, in public, social, political life, big cities, in small towns, and if those who are due to transitions remain somewhere on the sidelines, if all these women are strengthened and we get one satisfied woman, legally and materially protected, who is a pillar of the family. They say - a man is the head of a family, but a woman is a pillar, a woman is a neck, a woman is a body and that head is turning as a woman says, as she thinks, because she cherishes a family, she gives birth to children, she takes care of children, she takes care of the household, she takes care of her husband, she takes care of everything that belongs to a woman's care segment. That's why it's very important to strengthen women in every segment, no matter where they are, what they do and where they live. We're discussing women in political life today, but all women matter to us. A strong woman, a strong family, created a prerequisite for a greater number of newborn children in Serbia, and in that case a strong woman, a strong family, a strong Serbia. And that's very important to us. We from the PUPS parliamentary group welcome the legislators of all the laws today and give support and we will vote in favour of all the proposed laws, with the goal of having even better legal solutions and women in each segment in an even better position in the future. Soon the election comes, followed by a new assessment of our citizens based on work and results and a new trust. Serbia must not wait, we must work further, even stronger, for the better life of our citizens, especially women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70969	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70970	Thank you. Dear Presidents, gentlemen of the Parliament, including in this debate today under this amendment, I would like to point out that the appearance of this proposal, which took place before this session, was put on the agenda, with a large number of MPs, our colleagues, has caused a slight confusion and surprise, which also shows in this House a certain unpreparedness of the Serbian society's male part to build Serbia up and advance speedy steps. I'm here to say that this government has been in the previous period, or government since 2012, in 2014. 2016. etc. It has made major shifts and major changes in Serbia, and that this proposal from Parliament's Parliament, which was supported by President Maja Gojkovic, which we also supported in this House, is exactly one of the big steps that Serbia is promoting in this sense, in full terms, I think, a Member in this Parliament, and I believe that the vast majority of women in Serbia, whether they participate in political life or not so far, is a great encouragement and help in all areas of life's work, not only in political terms. I would agree, of course, in full composition in its full strength with that part of the sentence that says that no occupation, nor political interest, belongs to only one half. So, in every respect, and among the educated part of the population there is a larger number of women, there is a higher number of those who graduate from higher schools and are located in many professional places both as doctors and as professors and as experts and as engineers, etc. So it's natural to fully and completely support this proposal that's now on the agenda for us. How big a step this is for Serbia, and the next one that is just talking about a future composition, I will just repeat one sentence, since you all know that I am following and studying the work of Dosite Obradovic. This great Dossy came 200 years ago to Serbia, which, as a state at the time, did not exist, said among other things – Schools, above all schools and education. But for the first time, he said that education must be the same for girls and boys, because woe to that people whose mothers, wives and sisters live in the dark. There's no progress, no society, no individual. Imagine what a revolutionary change and message was in Serbia 200 years ago. It's time to move on after 200 years. In this regard, I also fully believe in women in Serbia's future and therefore support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70971	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70972	In order for us to understand each other, I must say that women are the ornaments of the world and that they are our flowers. That's right. Perhaps Mrs. Comic, as the legislator of this law, moves in the company of those who say she has taken my place. We, first of all, advocate for quality and I don't mind, here, a colleague from the PUPS said there are six ladies and three MPs. That's good, and we've never been against it. Our president in the debate said in principle that it would be good if it could be 50% of women in all representative bodies, as well as in the executive government, and that would be the right thing to do, that would be something that's good. But here at the rate that we only have a numerical one, that might not be a good solution. The Serbian Radical Party is not carrying a ball. The promoter explained and said the amendment made it clear that in the first five there would be two. It's better already, she suggests herself, saying that this wasn't the clearest solution. We know ten o'clock, but then there could have been abuse. We've had this restricted so far, it had to be third. Maybe we should've done it first. On many lists, perhaps women could be the first and best way to represent their views, their political parties and citizens of Serbia, and not even the third, and here, we don't know, if it's in the first five, two, will it be the fourth, fifth, first, second? It doesn't even matter now. We really just want to develop it programically, and we're essentially trying to get women into politics in a good way, to deal with it. They showed when they did, that the largest number and most responsible ones were doing their job. After all, in the area of justice and in the prosecution you can see it best. It seems to me that most of the women there are holders of judicial functions and are basically doing this job very bravely, professionally and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70973	Thank you. Parliament member Marija Obradovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Maria Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of the public who's following this session to make little adjustments. My guess is that colleague Mirjana Dragas thought that my amendment was being spoken of and that it supports it, not this amendment by counterpart Sreta Peric, who was earlier. We understand you because we're following. We know you're a colleague with us. As for his colleague, Sreta Peric, he was not paying attention to the class, as they would say, this amendment was adopted this morning, which you spoke of on the Committee so that we have two at five, not four out of ten. In any case, I have to notice and tell the public how many radicals SRS MPs are softer in this discussion than in 2012. I know what kind of blade we had in the SRS discussion. Now it's already been read differently. Thank you for that. That means a lot to us. You know, keep hitting, but the weaker you hit, it's a big help and a change in the way you think. The second thing, I'm going to brief on the amendment, to explain to those who didn't follow. So Gordana Comic suggested 40% with ten candidates, each 10 being four. We didn't have enough precise, less-represented sex, it's women now, because we all thought that women, rightly what was heard in the discussion, would certainly be seven, eight, nine and 10, those positions. We're not in trouble at SNS. I'll tell you about our percentages. But the point is, what about small parties? He'll go to the coalition? What about them? A total of 10 or 12 MPs are expelled by that list and three or four parties do so. So each party throws out two or three candidates. It doesn't have to be a woman. We have to make it possible for a woman to enter any party. That's the essence of our story. Now we're talking about the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but we're going to say the same thing again and again when there's a Law on selecting committees for local self-government. I'll use one replica. You know what? Shoot, I'm still in class. It's Gordana Komic in this story. When you're so brave, you skip the party fence. This is a higher value that is good for our society. You're doing good to women. So 52% in Serbia, we care about them through this law. The woman skipped the party fence and voted for something, suggested something that would help everyone. Well done. It's an expensive price. Gordana Komic is a political rival to me. I guess we're going to have a tough fight, because I expect it to go to the polls, because women who think like those on the political scene and in parliament are needed. But this is a lesson to all of us who stick to party fences. We're not sure if I'm strong enough to jump that fence, to do something good in my company. Turns out he can. How much will it cost Gordan? That is a lesson for all of us. We will follow. It is very important for women of this knowledge to learn that this hypocrisy in politics, to fight for women, but in doing so I will spit first, jargonically, the one who made this proposal that increases the number of women both in the Republic Parliament and in the local parliaments. Is this the DS that women who are now in the DS are fighting for? You DS women were the ones who allowed us to enter 33% in 2012. Where are you today? Why didn't you say anything? Did Gilas get so dizzy with his ideas that you can't talk? Let Gilas go a little bit. Stand by this woman because she's changing our society historically and we're never going back. I repeat, Gordana Comic gave this proposal as a space for the development of our society and it was recognised first by Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, as in co-operation, as I must say with men in the SNS, who are decision makers of large political decisions, without male colleagues, we cannot do this. I always repeat, it's true and it's the essence of our struggle. The struggle for gender equality is a woman, but the decision to be equal in Serbia must also be male. I hate to do this to the feminists, but thank you to the male colleagues, without your support and your exit from the comfort zone where you feel good, we did. You have shown that Serbia is a country of European values, that we have gone forward with mentality and that there is room to hear the voices of women working in Serbia. I'll speak when there's another bill for local parliaments because our women die the most. When I arrived to run for MP, I had already come across a lot, but it needs to be helped to make women local in two out of five, because they are full of enthusiasm, that energy she carries when she first enters the local parliament, it is the force that draws Serbia forward. We get a little tired by the time we reach parliament, but that basic energy is what Serbia needs. We have to change the political scene. We need new energies, new civic small, tiny ideas that edit my street, my neighborhood and my city. Serbia is a big story composed of small civil stories. You love Serbia by changing the laws that lead it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70975	Thank you. He's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70976	Thank you. It has already been said, the amendment that has been submitted, I have accepted and it has become an integral part of the bill. I just want to say that there is a very similar amendment in the almost identical text that the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70977	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm a letter to you. Can you just keep it down a little bit? When the shouting starts with two ends, then it really hears and looks very ugly in the transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70978	So, the amendment is identical according to the text of the People's Parliaments of Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic and are not the only one in the debate that, according to Parliament Dragas, began after the surprise from where this and what we are going to do now and what the party president will tell us and what it will all be. So, in a lively debate that ran through the meetings of the Women's Parliamentary Network, and the one that is informally how it is normally done in the congregations, which began formally by calling the President of the Assembly to meet with the Women's Parliamentary Network, in this live debate an amendment was made that was accepted. They say that large historical decisions are rarely made without people ready to come out of a framework where it is comfortable and in which everything is known and nothing has to change. For women who participate in the policy of change that gives equal chances to both women and men, they say that we are the great-great-grandsons of those witches who have failed to burn. I add that we are the white bees that will come after ten generations and have a completely different life than we do, but we work for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70979	Replication of the Verse of Radeta on exposure
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70980	We really didn't want to interfere with SNS and the combination with Gordana Comic and these bill proposals, and you saw that none of us mentioned it once. That's why we don't understand in this speech just now that looked like some speech at the DS rally calling the Democrats to do this or that. What's the idea of mentioning the SRS, saying, now we're talking about something more beautiful than we talked about before? We speak in principle. Everything we said in 2012 and I remind you that we've been asking for a three percent censorship since 2004, we haven't changed anything, and it's kind of not nice to be resented by a rhetoric fellow MP who called our entire assembly a donkey, a monkey pardon. That's what Mrs. Obradovic said at the beginning, calling out that we're all monkeys. Yes, Mrs. Gojkovic. Now she's talking about some equality, I don't know what, and then she's talking about how a woman's list is going to be thrown out somewhere by women, how women are going to die somewhere, and then speaking of MP Gordani Komic, she said six times – this woman, this woman. Someone who wants women to be absolutely equal and to be 40 in the National Assembly, we say 50%, then doesn't speak. You know, not just pamphlets, but this is a debate that really deserves both political background and political insight and attitudes and political programs that we represent here. None of us here are free shooters, except Gordana Komic in this case, but that's her business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70981	The word is Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70982	Thank you. Since I'm also a lawmaker and a member of the DS, here's our replica. So, the bill I filed was DS policy, it was, like, 30 years. As the DS policy is prepared to create dialogues where you might not think it would be my wish and will to participate in this debate with the consent of the majority is also DS policy. Whether someone's gonna call me a DS member or not or what anyone's gonna call me, I don't know how to tell you, but I don't really care. Come to yourself, this isn't where we're gonna play the qualification of anyone, anything. My application is only to ask that if we could have an entire session where we would talk about this session all the time, that would be quite a pleasant surprise and great news for the work of the National Assembly, which was also a wish and will always DS. What if there will ever be any other session where I will be able to stand up as a member of the DS, it will hardly be, so I am taking this opportunity and thank you for the replica. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70983	Thank you. I call upon all those who have applied to talk about the subject exclusively, because I think it is an extremely important topic for our society and that we are now knowingly and unconsciously writing pages of history. The word is Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70984	I risk being disfellowshipped from the Women's Parliamentary Network, but I am willing to take it and my speech will not be as inspiring as my colleague Maria Obradovic, but I have a few things to say. You and the SRS don't know each other since 2012, and you don't even know what our views were. This is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70985	Your Honour, please, you have no right to a replica, so please contact me in your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70986	There is no obstacle and that height of a fence that we are not ready to skip when it comes to our country, the interest of Serbian citizens. We don't think about other fences. Here some MPs are trying to make a sacrifice from Gordana Komic, I don't know why...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70987	Ambassador, indeed, this is not an amendment that even in its matter contains the name and last name of any MP. Please. But you answered. Please, MPs, that's why there are replicas. You've got her. Not all members of your parliamentary group can win by replica now. It doesn't exist. Let's get back to the subject and talk a little bit about the amendment that's been adopted and become an integral part of the bill. To make an effort to talk about what we're doing today. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70988	Thank you, President. Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, we are today discussing amendments to the draft law concerning the election of MPs and the proposing always had a good intention when it comes to this topic and the increased number of women's participation in the lists when it comes to the parliamentary lists and the parliamentary lists, and when it comes to Mrs Gordana Komic's work within her party. Because somewhere she was recognized in 2008 in that struggle that 33% of women took seats in the 2012 elections. She is not talking about it now, but from the moment she entered this political scene in this assembly's mandate as a member of the then Democratic Party, she simply raised the issue. I must say that the Women's Parliamentary Network was first established in 2013, when Parliament Speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic was, on purpose, saying that he was a man, and who recognized the initiative of all women who were MPs at that time, to form an informal parliamentary group called the Women's Parliamentary Network, which should cover the state interests of the Republic of Serbia that would improve the position of women in different segments of society. What was important to say was that at that time it was already beginning to raise awareness among our colleagues, that women's participation in Serbia's political life should be strengthened and that for this support many of our colleagues had no hearing at the time. Today, after eight years, we are talking about a proposal that 40% of women should take up certain political lists, i.e. to be an integral part of political life when it comes to election functions of MPs and councilors in local self-government. Mrs. Komic's proposal, which we have on the agenda today, I think it was a few times before, which she opened up and certainly was a good intention, opened up a constructive discussion, but such a proposal was simply accepted by the president of the National Assembly, which showed essentially the possibility that at local level men would give those places at a certain percentage higher, but they give in a positional procedure worse than it is now, which means third, sixth and ninth places, are not obliged to give as a proposal for their lists, but we already know that in many local self-governments, men simply want to show their best in front of their local self-government somewhere, and 10th place. That is why many of us disagreed with this proposal. I even think that the Serbian government's decision not to support such a proposal was precisely in this direction, that it would not allow the position of women to collapse, to be worse than it is now. Therefore, it was necessary for the amendment two to five, which Mrs. Marija Obradovic submitted, as well as many colleagues, Olena Papuga, to think that Mrs. Nada Lazic also submitted the same proposal. The essence of this law, in fact, we wanted to essentially move some things into society, and that essence should be looked at in precisely defined places when it comes to parliamentary lists. I must say that indeed great support for us in the SNS are, of course, our colleagues and our MP groups who understood the fact that these amendments were needed to be submitted and to simply support themselves when it comes to the parliamentary majority. This means that the Serbian government itself has seen that this proposal really improves the position of women in society and in Serbia's political life, and that by adopting such a proposal and the speaker of parliament, which insisted that such amendments should indeed be precisely defined when it comes to lists, it has come across great approval. I think it's important that it's the key to applying, to applying this law well. I think it is very important that we really affirm this topic in public in the best possible way, but I think that the answer of Mr. Alexander Vukic at the press conference two days ago when we discussed in principle that he would support Mrs. Komic's proposal, when it comes to 40% of women participating in political life and lists, shows that we, as a society, have made a big, huge democratic step when it comes to legal proposals, but also when it comes to political life in Serbia. After the 2020 elections, after 26 April, nothing will be the same in Serbia, nothing, nor the assembly majority, nor the assembly minority, nor when it comes to party members, because when we lower the censorship from 5% to 3%, nor when all these political parties running and running a particular political race in the elections, to put two out of five women on their lists, this parliament will look completely different, the political scene of the Republic of Serbia will look completely different, and actors and political programme holders will look different. I think the citizens of Serbia in the campaign will have to be very well informed about who they vote for and what they vote on. I think that because of this proposal that we now have for this amendment, which we should really all be able to support as a single joint proposal for this Parliament, I think in the future of Serbia gives a really higher value to the system of values that we simply need to show in our society that we have a future that speaks of that we have really made progress as a society since 2014, and since 2016, and today, when we simply talk about this in 2020. What the President said, we are writing history today when it comes to these decisions and we all have our share and our position in all of it, and of course what is the price that Mrs. Comic will pay is that for the decisions she has made to deal with her work as a national MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70989	I agree, I interrupted the SRS so we wouldn't spread the topic to the Comic MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70990	Let me just say, all the decisions you'll have in the future are the decisions of the political committee of Dragan Gilas who tried to buy Serbia's political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70991	Dear MPs, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Also, since more than five speakers have come forward and I see that the debate will continue, I am setting a regular break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours, and we will continue to work in the remaining time on the amendments. [[After a break.]] We can keep going. I give my word to Ambassador Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today is the day in this assembly of the National Assembly that we should all be kind of proud of. At least I feel that way. Regardless of what I noticed, there are bitternesses among some MPs in the plea, but the first amendment by my colleague, Maria Obradovic, should be supported, I hope it will be unanimously supported. On the other hand, we have one example of what parliament is and what parliament is supposed to look like from day one. I am of the opinion that those who have essentially tried since the first day, which has never happened before, to do the destruction of Parliament's work, instead of normal parliamentary work, where, for example, as we have in this case, colleague Gordana Comic, who is the opposition, submits a bill, and the authorities agree to discuss and amend it for the better. This is an example of the good work of parliament, and I hope that there will be more and more examples of this in Serbia in the future. So, we need to support this amendment, among other things, and because, of course, the co-worker will be more in the next session of both parliament and local parliaments, but we need to know and use the situation to say something else this time. This is another example of how we should all participate and work, to enable Serbian citizens to choose, decide and there is no single argument for those who speak of citizens not to go out and participate in these elections, whether it is a national level, whether it is a local level. At present, the situation is such that all those who are thinking about going to elections, and the members are, it has nothing to do with the SNS, but they are members of some other parties and the citizens of Serbia need to know and should hear from parliament that it is said that people are getting calls and threats to run for office and not participate in some lists, but to boycott the elections, and thus, of course, they will be denied the citizens of Serbia to make known about all those they wish to plead and give their vote. That is why I use, at the end of this presentation, the situation to say – Serbian citizens, the possibility of your vote has been improved, the representativeness of your will by reducing the censorship, the higher representation in this way by the proposal of the Law of Col. Comic and the amendment of counterpart Obradovic will be a woman both in parliament and in the province parliament and in local parliaments. You have every reason to come out to express your will and to make clear about who was working in the next period, and the SNS is eager to be evaluated for its previous work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70994	Thank you. Let me get this straight. The amendment was adopted by the proposer on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Just so we don't get distracted. There won't be a vote on him because he's in the integral part of the bill, so it's already become the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70995	Then we vote for the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70996	That's right. Thank you very much. Just to be clear. The word is Maria Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70997	The Honored Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, Unique Serbia believes that the amendment proposed by counterpart Obradovic is good and that it completes the legal solution, namely the bill proposed by counterpart Gordana Comic. I believe that, as a society, we have matured today to discuss openly the proposed law and to look together and create a picture of a woman who wants to become involved in politics and to make her contribution to a better and more modern Serbia without prejudice. Now, today we are supporting this woman and all the women, those women who are just coming and they are waiting for us to send them a message that they are an equal part of this society, a link without which this society could not survive. For twenty-five years, I've been in sports, and my best results, which I'm proud of, I've achieved in a sport that everyone characterises as a man. I fought like a woman on a man's court, and if I managed to encourage at least one girl in 25 years, a girl in this sport, I'm overjoyed, and I'll tell you that there are 25 girls in the club where I train today, and only a few years ago was it just me. So I believe that today we become a society of equal opportunities for all. But that equality can't be true if we don't have women who are equal partners. I don't want to point out that women are supposed to be in their positions just because they're women, but because they deserve it by their work and engagement, well, we can't argue with them. That is where our colleagues and everyone who participate in Serbia's social life should be honest and admit, accept and support a woman who has given her maximum and who has advocated being today and right now in this Assembly or in some other function. Unique Serbia truly supports women's participation not only in politics, but in all spheres of life. Today, we of six MPs have two MPs, so is our local committees where we have many presidents of our city and municipal committees, as well as many committees in local parliaments throughout Serbia. I also want to say that the Unique Serbia advocates tradition and family, and without a woman as a primary pillar of the family, that family does not exist. So I believe that today we will all support the proposed law together and that, just as I said at the beginning of my presentation, we will send support not only to women who are in this House today, but to all the women who are waiting and planning to get involved, but perhaps they weren't brave enough because they thought and thought they wouldn't come across support not only from a colleague, I must say in this case and a colleague, so I ask all the women who are outside of this Parliament on a variety of occasions, here we are a modern society and these social networks are very popular today, please even women to refrain from commenting. All right, we're not into the proposed law, we're not for what counterpart Gordana Komic suggested, but let's not insult women. There, at least we're here to be unique. Thank you. As I said, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70998	The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u70999	I thank the respected presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the path of gender equality, which leads to progress and improvement not only of women's position in Serbia, but also of a better and more stable Serbia. Unique Serbia, above all, has a family programme as a priority programme, and a woman is the most important link and pillar of society to us. The woman is in JS and the mother and sister and the housekeeper and the businesswoman, and also respected as a woman who deals with politics. I will also confirm my colleague Maria's position, who has already said that JS is on all levels, both locally and at the republican level, therefore, both in the legislative and executive authorities there are a large number of women and on our lists, certainly we will support the proposal of colleague Maria Obradovic on greater participation and percentage of women, but the JS does not directly influence this, because we have so far had a large number of women on our local and republican lists so that we have two MPs in the Republic Parliament, and a large number of women in places and directors and committees and all other institutions and institutions. Also, if we look at the law on the greater participation of women in political life, we will certainly achieve one better, to say, a more beautiful picture, a European picture of Serbia becoming one of the five countries of women's greatest participation in parliament, parliamentary life, but so far we also have the president of the National Assembly and a large number of women in other, very significant functions, and certainly we will give support and now that women are more appreciated and at local levels, which may be the most important levels and pillars in political life, where women directly participate and struggle to change every segment in society and all the problems from the smallest problems, which happen in local life to the most important problems, and certainly they are the main link and pillars that affect us in parliamentary life by bringing us all the problems that we need to, and from this high home, to say, with the parliamentary at the local level. So that JS will certainly support this amendment by colleagues Obradovic, we will also support the proposal of counterpart Gordana Comic, who is certainly revolutionary. This proposal accepted, to say kindly, and President Aleksandar Vukic and ours, i.e. My president, Dragan Markovic Palma, puts women first, as housewives, as mothers, as sisters, as wives. I will quote one of his sentences – that women should always be respected as if every day is a holiday and as if every day is March 8th, because for us, when we talk about women and when we talk about programs, it is not just political programs, but also life programs where women should be involved in all spheres of life and political life. So much support for JS in further progress is better and better Serbia and the lives of all citizens of Serbia and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71000	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71001	Thank you, Chairman. What I did in my principled statement when we talked, said there was a danger that maybe after the next election just because of a provision that was four in 10, we have a less represented sex. With this amendment submitted by Parliamentarian Marija Obradovic, he will also remove who he has accepted, so that we will now have the law – two at five or two at five. I would like to remind you that, and last time I spoke to you, we already had that case in 2013 on a valid provision for one in three to be a less represented sex, that, in order to respect that provision, we had to negotiate with each other within the coalition to give a woman her place to a man. So, don't look at this legal provision exclusively as something about women, the future is ahead of us. If what statistics say 51%, 52% have women, there are more than men, this legal provision can be protected right now by the majority of the gender represented. I am the President of the Commission for the Monitoring and Realisation of Gender Equality since 2004, and I can tell you that women within the framework of the Commission have made it much easier to negotiate and follow a consensus when there were issues, regardless of which political ones they belonged to, which group, were easier to find common language. I think this is a legislative change that will contribute to the quality of work of this Parliament itself, as well as local parliaments, although we still have to think about it. I looked at these statistics after the last local elections that where two councilmen have passed, there were only men, that where there were three there was one woman, and that now with smaller parties, which can count on two to three parliamentary mandates, there is still this concern if those who make decisions, and right now it is up to all of us to find more women and the places that make decisions, then this will be, there will be no legal provision, but also those who are opponents and those who are for, can't argue that after the law that has been imposed on one of the three is less represented, we didn't get a higher percentage of women in parliaments and in local and this parliament. In 2012, it was 32.4% and 21.6% in 2008. I recall the law applies in 2011, so no matter how we look at this provision, you can't argue that the quotas that have contributed to having a woman more in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71002	Ljubisa Stojmirovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71003	Thank you very much. A colleague and a colleague, says a colleague, I have inspiration when I see her. I'm one of those Serbian citizens who doesn't hide my love and affection for women and I always look forward to women and we talk about them, when the women and the songs we write are crazy about, who we do everything God said we should do. After all, God has decreed that a woman be a dominant being, that she is the one who governs both us men and the whole world. These days I had the opportunity to read one book, Professor Milan Milic, which has an interesting title "Two Plus Two, equals Four". And somewhere in the subtitle, it's just for the smart. For those of you who can understand that two plus two and don't have to be four. Today we are struggling here about how long it takes for women to be on the list, how it should be distributed, whether to reduce the censorship from 5% to 3%, about how national minorities will participate and give the citizens of Serbia the opportunity to see how and how we do it today. I don't care if any proposals will be tabled by distinguished counterpart Gordana Comic or counterpart Sarovic. I don't care whose proposal it is, I care how good and important this proposal is for the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. But I do have one perhaps my own philosophy that is not quite appropriate enough for today. Is it important that there are so many women on the list, or is it men, or is it important that they be the best on the list? In my opinion, and I've said that a few times in this assembly, politics must be a skill, it must be a virtue, it must be something that the best, the smartest, the smartest people do. Why would I mind having 90% of women on the list or 90% of men, 70%, 60%, that doesn't matter at all. For Serbia, for every country, it's important that the water is the best, the smartest and the brightest. We're kind of afraid of brains, we're afraid of smart people and smart people being in important places, but we're trying to solve some rules that aren't rules, which maybe make us something that's wrong, solve some problems. Don't be afraid, don't hesitate, let the best be on the lists and let the best lead Serbia. One example, I know that many will say that this proposal can cause problems especially in smaller environments and that there will be major problems, and most likely it is true. I have one example I don't know how to solve, but in the end, I'm not important either, which I'm the one who's going to decide, it's the law that decides. Begaljica is a village in Gorcka Municipality, and there is a Women's Association in the village that deals with the protection of culture, customs and above all, the preservation of the tradition of culinary. It is an extremely good and quality association and members of that association are only women. Now, could someone explain to me, if these women decide to go to municipal elections, and there are many, thank God, how will those who have only the female population in their society make a list? Very difficult, you agree. So I'm saying, it's no problem, we're going to pass this law today, we're going to adopt it, but in the future, let us be wise and smart, to choose only those who are the best, the best. Why can't that women's association in Grocko run Grocko if it's really the best and the best in Gorcko Municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71004	The word is Mr. Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has declared its clear position and we have nothing against increasing the percentage of participation, as it is said, of the weaker sex. Now it's 33%, and you're suggesting it's 40% here. We told you, it would be good to try it in the executive authorities, because it is now convenient, we have made it clear to you why it is now simply complicated, because the elections are on four levels, or on three levels, in the Republic, in the province and in the local. We'll get into an awkward situation, not all political parties will be able to meet this legal provision. We thought you'd understand that it's much more urgent that we are now discussing the return of the constitutional category that has been annulled by the subsequent interpretation of the same constitution, which is ownership of the mandate. We thought that here, at any rate, we would hear what the proposal is when it comes to overtures of signatures, because what has been at the notaries so complicated the work on the ground of political parties, that you yourself are aware and difficult that many parties will be able to even the regular numbers on the republican, regional and local level, which means a lot. It's always a rule for the ruling to do it. This is where you manipulate the notaries, there's a small number. Will all parties come to confirm, that's the question, to verify the signatures, that's the question and when will they come? This depends not only on their free time, but depends on the direct influence and mood of those who represent power, and we do not need to close our eyes. We are still thinking that we should prepare a proposal to be 50% on the lists, but this proposal is not now, but for a later period, and now it's quite normal and enough to be 33%. This looks like auctioning to us, it's just like cheap political points in the female constituency, and you think that part of the electoral body will turn around by propagating to increase the percentage. This is about in a way that we are interested in women being activated in politics, not in giving a voice by offering them at first sight the possibility of a higher percentage of their participation on the lists, present on the lists and participation in politics. They know in Serbia that these are propaganda tricks and we Serbian radicals, we are just warning you not to do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71006	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71007	Thank you. Some time a man here can smile quite honestly. Not everything is exactly as discussed in the heat of discussion by some MPs here. Of course, the amendment doesn't even need to be discussed anymore. The amendment was passed by Gordana Comic, she accepted it, and it became an integral part of the bill proposal and the same amendment was also proposed to Article 1, the exact same formulation of Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic and, of course, it was up to the promoter to accept the amendment, and it was very collegiate and well thought-out politicalally done that one of the laws given by the opposition MPs respected the amendment of the SNS MPs, but let me say, we all agreed that the amendments would look, that after your overall debate, where there were also unspeakable Toma, would raise doubts that there would really be 40% of women here in parliament, when the elections were over. So, not only on the election lists, but there will really be 40% of them here in parliament. No one prevented anyone from proposing amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs in another direction. We've been here four years. That one of the MPs who now laminates over the fate of women, so they say, which is not 50%, suggested 50%? It would be good, and we would be very supportive again, but it hasn't been proposed for four years, nor has the change of matter that's being proposed today and that has nothing to do with these proposals and changes, and where it's now talking about who it wants, but well, in some broad discussion, we can also talk about signatures, this and that, but no one has suggested. Artie, the pen has everyone and can propose an amendment or an amendment to the law. What's he talking about now, why aren't you this, what aren't you when you can? We're all equal here, we're all 250, you sit down, you propose, we discuss, we don't debate, and then you can say that someone didn't want something, and we're waiting for you to propose and we're going to do more representation women, maybe in executive power, so let's talk. But, slowly, since it is obvious that someone's intention is to talk a lot, and in fact soon, an hour, two, three, will show up at a vote who sincerely wants to move towards women's equality, in Serbia's political life, this time in the representative homes of our country's citizens, here in the Serbian Parliament, at the local level, we are waiting for a proposal at the province level, and I hope it will be the same as what we stand for here. Why did I say there were amendments with the same content? Because I do not want to diminish the importance of all the political options that have really worked actively to pass this law, i.e. the adoption of the law that we have received from Gordana Komic and how she has repeatedly repeated that there has been no hearing from the ruling parties here, but it has been a great pleasure to participate in this work. I must repeat, we are taking part in the creation of a piece of our country's history when in 100 years, when the centenary of something reads our names the way we read the names of the MPs that participated in the great National Assembly in which the Republic of Serbia was decided to unite. We've read the names of Maga Malagurski and others here. I don't want to erase any of the history books, so we'll read our names. Maybe it's funny now, maybe someone calls us flowers, not flowers, ladies, weaker sex, and I don't know how, maybe they called them that, but they're all in history. I have no doubt it was easier for them than for us. It was harder for them. They've gone into history. That's what matters. We shouldn't forget that. This will make history and who supports and who does not support, but of course the political decision is for everyone to comply with their political definitions and votes. We've made a big move. The year 2020 is important because the world marks 25 years since the adoption of the Beijing Declaration. Serbia has something to show the world. Soon there will be a large UN rally on what the world has done 25 years later on gender equality. So we're not any weaker sex. I don't know what the weaker sex means. Physically, intellectually, at work, I don't know what that means. I think of myself as a often stronger sex, it was in this category, I measure myself or some colleague of mine compared to respected colleagues. It would never occur to me that in a discussion with a male MP I say you are a weaker sex or you are a weaker sex, but would intellectually ask me to break hands with him, in views, to convince the voting body and citizens of Serbia that I am right, and not him who is like a stronger sex. But I'm asking you what. When someone says that, I'm very interested in what women are so generalized in, that we're the weaker sex, however many we are, millions, billions, we're like the weaker sex, and someone else is together, generally the stronger sex. I really can't agree with that. Let me tell you something. The law that is often spoken of as an excuse is that 40% of women need no more excess of life. The law was 30%, or every third, that's 33.3% in total. There are now 37.8% of us in parliament. Life shows something else and we increase the practical presence of women by 2.5% here in parliament. When it comes to something, it needs to be thoroughly examined what we're doing today. We open the door and oblige the political parties to recognize that there are over 50% less represented genders in this country, this time the female and that there are also several fewer genders represented in the electoral body, i.e. the female at the moment. So let's see who's less gender-represented in that category, in general, in the population and in the number of voters, it turns out that respected men are less gender-represented in Serbia. And whether we're courting someone or not, I'm not courting anyone in my life right now, and I don't know if it's being done by a respectable colleague who likes to underestimate someone when they have a good idea. No, I don't. This is our political program. We represent our political definitions. Fortunately, the vast majority in parliament, not only the ruling majority, but the vast majority in parliament have such political definitions that women are, not only more visible, but that women play a much greater role in creating the politics of the Republic of Serbia. I am extremely proud that our parliament will make a decision and that we will enter one of five in Europe, and I do not know very, very high in the world, 23 in the world, and no one can say that we are not taking huge steps to meet the objectives of sustainable development in 2030 and to meet this agenda. This part of gender equality is an extremely important part of the UN agenda. This will be discussed in Vienna, because it is one of the most important topics at the summit of the president of parliaments of the world. I don't know who will represent our parliament in August of the month, but it will be proud that Serbia is the leader in allowing the less represented sex, the female sex, to make important decisions for its country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71008	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71009	Yes, I'm reporting for the amendment because the Social Democrats League had the same amendment, and we may have made it a little different, but we thought the same thing, that we should arrange those 10 places, that's 40%, so we also suggested that they be two less represented sexes, between five. We may have done it differently, but I'm commending all the activity of the Women's Parliamentary Network that in the last few days, in the last weeks, while we've been agreeing on how we're going to do it, how we might lobby, how we're going to make one good energy, we're on the tide today and these days, we did it the day before yesterday. I really want to say that I haven't attended a tide of such good energy as there has been a debate on these changes, we've all been involved, especially I say women from the Women's Parliamentary Network, but all the men's deputies who have supported us in all this. Some people think we're here for quotas, and there's been this kind of thinking, maybe, let's be. I was the creator of the 2009 amendment, when Alexander Jerkov and I fought to make it 30% of women in parliament. Then, in some ways, I can tell you, it was even harder. In eleven years, we achieved that 30% quota, which said that we were perhaps there because of that quota by force, turned out to have exceeded that 30% quota, that today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 37.8 women without some violent quota. So, male, male, male, I'm saying it now, they sensed that women in parliament bring good energy, that we're creative, that we're good at running our MPs clubs, even though there are very few women who are MPs' presidents, but I think we have a lot more to endure in our struggle, that we have a lot more to do, but with the help of men, we're not going to do it. The problem is that there are few women in the executive board. There are few women in the joints. So all MPs that are now members of the Women's Parliamentary Network and who will be members of the Women's Parliamentary Network in the future should, primarily, in their task of having to go to the fields and empower women who still don't know if they can because of the environment, because of some miles, space, prejudice in which they live, enter politics. It can be a mother, a housewife, a teacher and everything, working in a party or participating in a political life, because political life is a whole life, every pores of our lives is politics. So, it can't all go without a woman. That is why I thank you as the co-ordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network and I am pleased to say personally that in this six-month term, the amendment of Marija Obradovic and the amendment of the law of Gordana Komic was achieved. I thank all the women who have invested all the energy to pass it to the male sex, for the time being, the larger population in the National Assembly, which will help to vote this out.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71010	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71011	We cannot accept that the Serbian Radical Party is said to be saying something just to say, for the sake of order, and yes, we are not suggesting anything. That's just not true. When we talked about the percentage of women and this bill, we said we had nothing against this proposal where 40% of women were proposed and that we wouldn't mind 50%. That's exactly how it was said, and the best evidence of our relationship with it is the current president of the National Assembly. Mrs. Gojkovic, without quotas, without any obligation, was the first vice-president of the National Assembly as a Serbian Radical, was in the first four or five MPs in Serbia as a radical, was the minister, was the mayor, vice-president and all without binding quotas. It's our relationship to women in politics and anywhere else. It's not exactly what we're saying -- what we didn't suggest, well, if we did, we'd be discussing it and I guess we'd adopt our proposal. That's just not true. We wouldn't even be discussing our proposals because we're not part of any pre-election combinations that are so obvious right now. You know, we proposed a law on executive procedure and security half a year ago and filed more than 100,000 citizens' signatures, along with our proposal. Is that on the agenda? It's not. Did you want to discuss it? You're not. And then you say -- well, here, suggest, we'll discuss it. No, you're just discussing and adopting what you get as a warrant for the European Union and what the combinations on the internal political scene are currently current.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71012	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is by the amendment of Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71013	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to support the amendment of my colleague Obradovic, just as he looks at what we have similarly suggested, and I would no longer elaborate there. Unfortunately, Serbia is a country where quotas must exist and this is what the practice has shown. You don't need to run away from it, and you don't need to close your eyes to it. I'd just make a parallel with Finland. In Finland, there are 200 MPs in parliament, and since the age of 34, the youngest prime minister, and otherwise the curiosity is that it is a coalition government with four other women-run parties, three of which are under 35 years old. Finland is a country we often want to talk about when it comes to the education system, because it is the best in the world and we want them to be our role model. Finland is the country with the highest index of happiness, it is said, one country with a high standard. So when she can choose where there is no quota, they have no quotas but simply is so high awareness in society that women are equal factors in society and are brave to leave, so to speak, that the country leads primarily women. We currently have 22 ministries, correct me if I'm wrong, we have a prime minister and four ministers. It's about 22, slightly less than 23%. It should also be in the executive power of many more women, at lower levels more women, but there are much more resistances, much greater prejudices than would be in the elections for the republican parliament. That's why this is a historicly significant step, in my opinion, as it could be heard here, that in this House we choose a higher percentage of women, but to fight that in the executive government we also have a higher percentage of women. Because the way you function and the way you choose priorities is different between men and women, that's what the practice has shown. I think life would be a lot easier if women were to ask themselves a lot more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71014	Thank you. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71015	Thank you, Chairman. Thank God that there are no people in parliament today who will oppose the essence of the proposal by MP Gordana Komic to show up on the electoral lists at least 40% of the less represented sex, so we are now in the Assembly and we do not have the opposite side. Thank God we're just competing now to improve that proposal. The proposal by MP Gordana Comic was that there must be 40% less of the gender represented on the election list and that in the first 10 there should be at least four members of that less represented sex, in the next 10 more, and in the next 10 more and so on. The proposal made it possible for the applicant to place the list in the first six places always members of the more represented sex, and only in the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth places to place members of the less-represented sex, in this case the woman. Only by submitting amendments to our colleague Maria Obradovic, this bill gets even more to the quality and achieves the essence. The amendment submitted by our colleague, Marija Obradovic, says that there must be at least 40% less than the gender represented on the list, among every five candidates in the order of the list, the first five seats, the other five places, and so by the end of the list there must be at least two candidates of the gender that is less represented, which will say that every five candidates, currently, must find at least two members of the less represented sex, i.e. If there are three men, there must be at least two women. A relationship may happen to be four to one, but not for the benefit of a member of a more represented sex. So it's no use for men. If a woman is less represented on the list, there may be four-to-one relationships in those five places, but it must be in favour of women, in order for the whole list to be at least 40% of represented members. This is, in my opinion, a great success in the fight for gender equality, primarily the Women's Parliamentary Network, but also all of us who supported it continue to support this fair fight. To avoid further debt, I believe that the amendment submitted by Marija Obradovic is good, and I am glad that the legislator accepted the amendment and that he entered the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71016	LJupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The People's Messenger, LJupka Mihajlovska, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71017	Thank you, Chairman. Someone smart said the only thing we're all the same is that we're all different. Birth identity is important, but not everyone is equally important and important. I am sorry that today, without the intention of reducing the importance that, now it is certain, we will vote on the proposal by Col. Komic, which is to have at least 40% of women on the list, also attend the fact that the political public and this society are not fully prepared for social inclusion and that politicians allow each citizen and every citizen to have their respective representative. Because if it weren't for that, it would at least be a little discussion about the proposal I made, which is that every political group that goes to the polls among the top 10 candidates has a person with disabilities. I haven't heard from anyone about this proposal, I haven't heard too much of it, and I haven't heard any of the reasons why it won't be accepted, so now I, dear colleagues and colleagues, ask you, who are the people with disabilities bothering you, and do people with disabilities bother anyone in politics? Can this be understood as a message that people with disabilities are not wanted in the work of political parties? Is there any fear of meeting more people with disabilities? Here, I'm a four-year-old MP, I haven't caught anyone yet, maybe a little verbally, but that's what we all do. Do you find it aesthetically difficult to meet with colleagues and colleagues with disabilities? I think that the citizens and most of us here are more disturbed by some other people with some right-wing and nationalist attitudes far more destructive than the fact that a particular population that counts between 10% and 15% of our population is given an opportunity to deal with politics. If you're afraid you can't find one, I repeat, one person with disabilities that you can put on the list, so how is it possible that we have a law that forces employers to have one person with disabilities on 50 employees or to pay for a penalty? So we can put a burden on the economy, but when we have to make a political statement about how we really take care of an extremely marginalized group, then we can't achieve it. You, in some ways, if you do not support this proposal, are forcing people with disabilities to organise themselves and establish a political organisation, although, believe me, this group is not the same ideologically. Among people with disabilities, you also have those who support both left-wing and right-wing parties and the centre parties, those who are more focused on eastern values, those who are more facing Western values, but because there is no opportunity and opportunity for other parties and other politicians to represent the interests of this group, you are forcing this group to group together and, on one basis only, one identity, which is disability, grouping and fighting for their rights. It's really bad taste. I think this is important to support, 40% of women's participation, but for me, it's unacceptable that there can be women who are truly fighting for human rights, for European values, for inclusive society, for pluralism in politics, and that they can't support this idea. I want you to convince me that today when we vote, without any directive, without that famous bell, I see at least 126 votes on the screen for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71018	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71019	Thank you. One of the features of Serbian political culture is that the idea is compromised by compromising its advocate. The modern Serbian party, on the other hand, believes in a political culture where ideas and suggestions are accepted if they are good, no matter who the proposer is, because we judge ideas rather than people. In that sense, I want to believe that the proposal for at least 40% of women on the election lists, just like any other good proposal, would have passed because it is good, no matter who his proposal is, what his strength is, what he thinks about other political parties, and whether we agree with him on that or any other issues. Because there are political issues that are more important to this society than party divisions and party fences. So, without a dilemma, we decided to support at least 40% of the women's electoral lists, and that's precisely the text of this amendment, by model two in every five, which, as far as we can hear, has passed with joy. But we also decided that as a party that sees Serbia in the society of modern Western states, we step one step further, because the electoral system is as good as any social group in parliament gets, and so is the social group that makes up as much as 10 to 15% of our society, and these are people with disabilities. We discussed today and the day before that whether those who are only 3% or slightly above it are relevant, when we talked about the fact that censorship as a threshold of relevance should be reduced from 5% to 3% and that some social groups that may be up to five times less numerous in our society than people with disabilities should be represented in the Serbian parliament. Therefore, I do not think that we should eskicipate the debate on whether it is relevant and relevant to provide one representative in the first 10 on the list of persons with disabilities. Not one in every 10, but a total of one per election list in the first 10. With regard to the participation of at least 40% of women in parliament, and I hope also by respecting our proposal, and one person with disabilities on the electoral list and whether it will improve Serbian democracy, the quality of the work of the Serbian parliament, his dignity and raise political pluralism in him, this depends least on the quotas and the figures needed, but not sufficient conditions. Because whether we will have political pluralism in Serbia and better democracy depends, among other things, on whether we will have MPs representing their political views with full personal integrity, and sometimes at the cost of their own political damage, not solely under the party directive. I'm not a woman, I'm not an invalid, thank God, but I'm going to vote for this for my political damage because I believe in the correctness of that idea. Pluralism will only be in Serbia when there is genuine freedom of the media, impartiality and legality in the work of the bodies implementing the elections, independence of the judiciary and the mechanisms that will ensure a more direct responsibility of the MPs of the citizens who chose it. There are many toxic words in the Serbian political public. This comes naturally from here and therefore women and persons with disabilities and every relevant social group in Serbia should be guaranteed their political representation through mandates in the National Assembly. I hope that despite the lack of a political agreement, prepared in advance, through dialogue, you will still reconsider your position and vote for this proposal today when put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71020	The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71021	Thank you, Chairman. I will refer to the speeches that my colleagues LJupka Mihajlovska and Vladimir Djuric had. As you all know, texting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a rare welcome to all good and quality proposals, regardless of whose sides they are directed. So we decided today to support a good proposal, a proposal which we think is, above all, well-intentioned, by our colleagues and by the vice presidents of the Assembly, Mrs Gordana Komic. We made that decision almost immediately after this proposal was sent to the assembly procedure on January 27th, by trying as many other colleagues to make this proposal better. It is a practice of texting that we do not necessarily criticise if something comes from our political inexperiences just because it comes from our political inexperiences, and that if we can make some legal proposal better, we will do so by proposing amendments, which will work and who will speak in the interest of our citizens, which we are actually representing here in the home of the National Assembly. That is why we have suggested that we make this legislative proposal better by doing so instead of the proposal made by Mrs Comic, to find the first ten persons or four candidates of the less represented sex, in fact by making the first five or every five persons of the less represented sex. I must say that even if I am a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network and I understand the need for a quota to determine the number of women, I personally am not an advocate of the quota system and I only see this as a transitional period to some societies that will look like Western modern states, such as, we have heard here several times and as we have been compared to parliaments in Sweden, Finland, etc. So I hope that at some point we will mature as a society and understand that it is perfectly normal for 50% of women to be found in parliament, as many as there are in the population. That is, unfortunately, impossible, and that is why we are forced to address the quota of the system. It is impossible, among other things, because decision-makers are who will be sitting in parliament mostly men headed by political organisations. I will remind you that perhaps as the heads of the parliamentary groups, or the heads of the parliamentary groups, we have very little today, that in the leadership positions in political organisations today we have very little. It seems to me that days, I won't be wrong, in the current assembly of parliament, I'm the only leader of a political organisation that has no president, but has a presidency, so I'm one-third leader. For these reasons, we feel it is necessary that we also get representatives of that group that is the fastest in our society today. A colleague of LJupka said it was somewhere between 10% and 15% according to the World Health Organization report. According to the latest census, it is just over 550,000 people currently living in Serbia. The question is what this statistics will look like, given that our population is ageing and that the inevitable number of people with disabilities will increase and increase. It is simply unreasonable for us today to talk about it in parliament, to have a person with disabilities who clearly and unequivocally advocates and struggles for the interests of persons with disabilities, and that we are not able to hear and understand that the need for this broad population is somehow represented. So until we become an orderly society in which it will become normal for every parliament, including in the Serbian parliament, to have a certain number of people with disabilities, not to say that every list certainly has at least one person with disabilities to represent that list. We, unfortunately, still have to settle the quota system. I hope that you will still adopt our amendment, although it has been refused in principle, that in the voting day you will press the key, whether you will receive guidance through the bell or not, and I sincerely hope that it will become only a transitional period when more quotas of the system will not compare the composition of the future parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71022	Thank you. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the proposal of the Amendment Law and the addition of the Law on Local Elections, you have received amendments from the Members of Parliament. You've received reports from the board of directors. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, he rejected the amendment of MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, adding a new Article 2 after article 1. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71023	We responded in the title because it is really pointless for the parliamentary majority to come with a proposal to amend and supplement the law, and to say, a supplement. The fact that you have proposed the amendment of one member cannot prevent other MPs from making amendments and prejudge the decision of the National Assembly, and you say, "This is the addition of the Law on Local Elections, which is not supplemental." So, if you had heard about what we have proposed to the amendments, which will explain in the follow-up of my fellow Members, you would see that the key things have been neglected on your part, which is the possibility that from the Constitution arises, more specifically from Article 102. Position 2 for Members of Parliament, it is also for the committee, that they can make their mandate available to the political party on the list from which they are elected. However, trade in parliamentary and parliamentary terms is excellent for you. It's not necessary for the opposition. It takes authorities, in municipalities and cities in which you have been in power for four years and in previous years where you have made coalitions, principled or such or such, you have greatly influenced this to become a lucrative job for people in cities and in municipalities in Serbia. Should I remind you that in Kragujevac SNS, or Radomir Nikolic, the entire board club has been quarantined, not in Kragujevac, but in the nearby town, to blackmail other coalitions' committees to move into its ranks to make the congregation majority? As you've done, so has the city. Debts are getting bigger. You gave, as if you had thrown 40m euros into the well to an incompetent man, a family that was laundering money, I mean the Nikolic family, who used this trading of parliamentary mandates to make an additional fortune, and that was done by many leaders in cities and municipalities that until the last moment or held them in power. The frog tells you that you're going to get rid of it, that you're going to change through this Vucician triage 50%, 60% of them at local government level, when the tracks remain. And what kind of clues will be, time will tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71024	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Are they there? No, I don't. Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71025	Article 2 refers to Article 40 of the applicable Law on Local Elections and determines mainly the jurisdiction, i.e. the procedure to be established by the electoral commission after the elections have been made. So it's said in point 3. – the electoral commission determines the number of mandates belonging to each election list, the election lists they received at least, earlier 5%, are now 3%, of the total number of voters. We have proposed that after the point be put on a tight line and say – and that, on a proposal from the applicant of the electoral list, there is a further distribution of the parliamentary mandates. It has its full meaning, because this is not the best way to choose a councilman and also an MP. And you are now epochally talking about this second proposal, the fourth draft agenda and the amendments that have been tabled on these drafts of the law, and you had no idea that practice has shown a negative relationship to this way of assigning the mandate. The parties should allow it to determine who will represent it in the next period, based on the elections that have been held. Today we were able to hear there and praises and commendation that we had come to dialogue, that the majority of the congregation were ready to enter the dialogue, to accept the proposals. I'm not saying anything here about the promoter, but I'm just talking about a new practice that the assembly majority was ready to enter the dialogue, open a dialogue and accept the proposal from the opposition. But in gratitude, the promoter was ready to accept once again the amendment of the applicant making up the congregation's majority. That would be normal, so it should always be or more often, whenever there is a better proposal than it is in force in any law. However, the practice has not been so far and it can be estimated that, with the adoption of this bill, it is not directly related to the law itself, but it is being buried by the DS. I congratulate you on that. It's usually the way it happens when someone does something, so that this guy comes up with the head that he made or gave birth to. It should not be forgotten that DS played a very important role in creating SNS from the stolen mandates of the SRS, and today we have one such relationship and that's good. I think Milka Planinz would turn in her grave now if she saw what we were discussing. She was president of the government a long time ago. The proposer of this third law, i.e. the second and fourth agendas, did not say that it could and should say that in the executive bodies of the government, other public institutions and women's companies should also play significant roles in these political leaderships and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71026	The 2nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71027	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we have also stated in previous discussions that the ministry responsible for enrolment in the Register of Political Parties is taking care of the registration of minority parties and that it determines whether the political party has a national minority position and in order to avoid any abuse of national minorities, we have suggested that the applicant of the electoral list having status, or the position of the national minority party in its name must also contain the name of the national minority. Also, to avoid a number of abuses, which we have already mentioned, is that there are two-thirds of the minority nations on the lists, because it is definitely the only way to avoid abuse. What many modernists would think of as positive discrimination, we Serbian radicals believe that discrimination is, therefore, a pity for those to whom it applies, because we cannot share discrimination on a positive and negative basis, because it is always negative. The Serbian Radical Party has been fighting for national minorities for three decades, whose members are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and have the same rights, absolutely all rights as the majority Serb people. I would also remind you and repeat that the representatives of the national minorities were always on the SRS list and that they always had all the rights as well as the majority people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71028	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71029	With this amendment, we really wanted to do something of general benefit, and here's a chance for you, because you just called us that when we say something, we should take it, we should submit such an amendment, that is, a proposal. What did we suggest? That only election lists can form committee groups. The same goes for MPs, when it comes to this previous law and the best example is... What's going on? You as the ruling party on your list have a dozen other parties, party, movement, I don't know what, and that's your thing. We don't get involved in that, as much as you give a mandate, we don't care about that either, but we're interested in something that happens when the elections are over. Then, in both local governments and the National Assembly, five, six, seven parliamentary, or parliamentary groups are made out of that single electoral list. What does that mean? It implies how many parliamentary or parliamentary groups so many secretaries, so many rooms, so many benefits when it comes to the use of time, so many participations in that farce, for example, in the National Assembly when representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia come here, so when all of you from the government as a splintered parliamentary group ask some questions that you actually say, "well done by the Government," and then, of course, whoever is the true opposition and who took part in the elections alone cannot come to terms. We have every right, we Serbian radicals, to insist on this because we are the only political party that always goes to the elections alone. We repeat, you go out however you like, but just accept this amendment that after the elections have been completed, only the electoral list, whoever was on it, however many groups, parties, whatever, there is only one parliamentary group. It is the only, or one of the ways, three, and we have all three expressed through our amendments, you will hear in the course of the debate, to return true parliamentary democracy and to this republican level, but also to local levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71030	National MPs Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Muamer Bačevac, Predrag Jelenkovic, Branimir Jovanovic, Slavica Zivkovic, Jasmina Karanac, Milena Bicanin and Milorad Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Nemanja Radojevic and Fatmir Hasani. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were submitted by MPs Muamer Zukorlic and Jahja Fehratovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment, with a correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71031	Thank you. The intensity of our amendment was the same as in previous law. to allow minority parties, i.e. parties representing national communities and minorities, to be able to go to local elections uninterrupted. This means that they do not depend on their participation in these elections whether or not they are in the ruling majority, in the national council, and that means that no one can, because of the political interest of those who are currently usurping or ruling the national council, prevent them from being in the local elections, i.e. that they have equal chances, equal opportunities to participate in the electoral process and achieve what is best for their national community in this election race. This is very important to us that these allow minority parties in those places where they are minority, in terms of majority people, but still satisfy the threshold that they can be participants in the electoral process, to achieve individual and collective rights, because in places where they are majority of national communities in local communities, such as Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, this is not a big problem, but it is a problem, let's say, in Novi Varosha, in Priboj, or in some other places, such as Subotica, Novi Sad, etc., where we have an envied number of members of our community, and which would probably be disabled or made it difficult for him to go to local elections, given that it takes this confirmation which was in the basic draft of the law, and which would probably not be possible to be achieved, because a political group that abuses and holds our national council or national councils largely largely in order not to express that it should be able to do so in particular that it in order to participate. Whether it will remain until the election process itself, we will see, but what they are announcing is that they will be part of these political groups that will not participate in the elections, and for the national minorities and minority nations the most devastating thing that can happen is not to participate in election processes and to prevent their people from achieving the rights and privileges that they are entitled to under the Constitution and the laws. That is why we are happy that this amendment of ours has won the trust of both the promoter and the board of directors and that it will be an integral part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71032	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Žika Gojkovic. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go. You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have tabled, that is, by the amendment I have submitted, I ask that the position of the 6th member to be amended – that the political party of the national minority within the meaning of Article 5 of this article is the party that the electoral commission determines is the primary objective of representing and representing the national interests of the national minority. What is in line with the Constitution and in accordance with the law is the solution that the competent ministry that cares about and the register of political parties and the registration of minority parties and should know that the electoral commission is both at the republical level and at the local level, which is concerned, is primarily the political authority and that these electoral commissions carry out the political will of those who have a majority in the municipality and those who exercise power in that municipality or city, in the local self-government unit, whatever. In what way and with which criteria the electoral unit will determine whether it is indeed the purpose of a party registered as a party of the national minority whether it is indeed their superior objective. There's no such thing as a criteria. What if someone logs into a register of such political parties and after 10 days, where there are no visible political activities, goes to elections, submits a list, on which someone in the municipality who is neither professional nor anything to determine who is the ultimate goal of these parties, will have the opportunity to refuse them to go to elections? This allows only the self-will of local powers and will only contribute to the different situations from the municipality to the municipality, that where the ruling party has an interest in declaring someone a protector, if necessary the yoga flier, they say it is their goal, and in other cases they say it will not be so. Whether there may be an argument for the number of members of that minority on the list, whether they will be their hair, whether they will be eye color, whatever they will be arbitrary. So, you don't have a single solid criterion, you don't have a single... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71034	Thank you very much. Two minutes and 40 seconds. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71035	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a 3% censorship in local elections, is, above all, an opportunity for some parties to be more easily established, that is, after establishing them easier to place in parliament, that some of the electoral lists belonging to a group of citizens can be presented through local movements in local parliaments. But that censorship in the local elections and how it affects the republican elections, especially when they are held at the same time. So, if the local elections make the censorship 3%, then parties attending the republican elections will make it easier to engage their committees, in addition to representing the interests of the parties at the local site, certainly representing their votes and interests of the parties who have proposed them at the republican level. With this in mind, the parties who have died in a certain way have the opportunity to renew their municipal committees through local elections, which will certainly contribute to the next elections, which will follow always after one election, have a higher number of votes and have better organised committees, have a seat, get money at the bar for their party, which they would not get if the censorship is 5%, and they do not have enough votes. So, a 3% censorship, except it offers a chance at the bar, offers political parties that at the republican level they have a better organisation and that they produce a better result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71036	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the last item of the agenda. You've received amendments from the MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have asked this amendment to delete Article 1 which stipulates that there must be 40% less than the gender represented on the election list, in order that there must be at least four fewer genders on the list in every 10 places. This is a worse solution than the one that's in the existing law. We are in an existing law, or we have a solution by which every three candidates must have one less represented sex. If such a proposal were accepted, it would mean that, for example, four women could be in seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth places. You know there's often a large number of election lists at the bar. With a reduction in censorship, it will be an even greater number, a group of citizens, a list and usually a smaller number of candidates will pass. You will have these changes that will lead to a smaller number, mostly women, because not lying in smaller environments is much harder for women to motivate them to deal with politics, to lead to a significantly smaller number of women in these local congregations than they have ever been before. Another argument, which may be even more important for us Serbian radicals, is that everyone in politics and in any business should qualify and participate primarily in accordance with their own qualities, rather than in accordance with any quotas. We are against these remains of communism – and so many young people will go, and so many pensioners will go, they will go this far from this national minority, so many women will go. Whenever you're looking at someone who's dealing with a job exclusively through their gender and whether it's a woman, you're actually discriminating it that way, and I think it's better that in your parties and MP groups... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71038	Thank you. It's been a while. Marija Obradovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? LJupka Mihajlovska, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic and Tatjana Macura submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71039	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposing of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections was primarily based on an increase in the number of candidates on the electoral list where they are asked to be 40% less represented sex. In the view of the SRS, this bill is proposed by ad hoc because other facts concerning the electoral process in cities and municipalities have not been considered. In light of the bill's proposal, it is said that the adoption of this law and its implementation encourages greater women's presence in policies that are not today satisfactory even though our country made great progress compared to 15 years ago. Dear fellow MPs, the same legislator of this law took part 15 years ago in political life, the adoption and implementation of the law, but unfortunately there were no words, nor were there any letters on the bill when it comes to women in politics. The Serbian Radical Party has no objection to women being involved in political life in both the local and the republic. Why didn't the promoter predict that by reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, the number of signatures for the committee from 30, say, to 18 or 20. They also have one notary or none where they should be able to verify signatures, besides notaries, works local self-government through local communities, where they would thus solve the problem of bringing people into the premises of parties or notaries. As the party oversigns are paid by the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the parties return the same money to the budget, then I see nothing wrong with it, except complicated procedures and harassing citizens especially where municipalities are dissociated and where in the greater presence of the party population. Then, a serious complaint by the SRS should be found in this bill that the mandate of the committee belongs to a party or to a group of citizens who have run it on their lists, because of the sale and purchase of parliamentary mandates. And in the end, women in politics should be quality, not quotas and percentages. This bill, when it comes to local elections, will not be able to produce the desired results, and practice will show it, and you will then grab your head especially for small municipalities with fewer council members.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71040	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71041	Thank you, Chairman. Just for public information. The persistent colleagues of the SRS speak of their amendments that are totally out of the question if they did not follow that amendments were adopted this morning. So they keep saying it's bad to be four out of 10 and criticise Gordan's proposal, and we actually adopted it, this morning the Committee adopted it to be two in five. So there's no reason to talk about it you're confusing the public further. So we're up for it, and it's become an integral part of Gordana Komic's bill, that two in five candidates, every five, are less represented gender, and these are women. So, let's not confuse both the committee and the MPs' election, just once more to clarify that. I'm guessing the Proposer's going to give it another tip. In any case, I would really like to thank everyone for the debate, as one of the MPs who took part in all this, to thank especially all the women in the Women's Parliamentary Network, sorry for the MPs, I did not express myself correctly, and one more special thing to my fellow men I have to point out, they came out of that comfort and decided to support something new and to drag us forward. It may not be quite clear to everyone at this point, but in time you will be proud of these days and this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71042	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71043	This is not all the comfort zone as it tries to introduce itself, and it really bothers us that someone has a thing against the amendments to the SRS, I understand that you do not accept them, you do not accept our ideas, you accept ideas in the mixer in the work of the National Assembly, they are different from the EU, they are your combinations, I have already mentioned that within our political life in our country, but to claim that our amendments are without any meaning really are meaningless. when we're talking about what you've been trying to represent as some historic moment for the past two days, as something that someone in this conference will remain listed, some Klare Cetkin, some, I have no idea what all of this looks like. It's just not exactly like that. This is the simplest proposal to amend two laws to increase the number of women and to reduce the percentages for entering the National Assembly and local self-government and nothing epochal and nothing historic. It wasn't epochal when it was decided in some earlier convocation to be 33% of women, or in every three candidates to be one woman, somehow here they say two in five, so it looks like that coffee three in one, two in one, really, it's offensive. Talk about the MPs of the people, the councilmen of the National Assembly, and talk about something two in five. Let's raise the level of communication a little bit, at least when we talk about what's indisputable. So, what's been going on here these two days? First, in the middle of the debate, in principle debate, we received information in writing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is against the proposal of MP Gordana Comic to find 40% of women on future lists for both local and parliamentary elections. This is where the MPs said they were not interested in the government's opinion, that the MPs of the assembly's majority would vote for those laws, and that's fine. Of course, that the National Assembly should not be an instrument in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it was all a bit dishonest and you were all unprepared for what happened to you, and then one colleague says, about, perhaps even quote - we do not care what the Government of the Republic of Serbia says, Vukic said that votes are being voted and we will vote. I, I have to say, I don't know which time to tell you that it's a very bad commercial that you're talking about the president of the state. But that's your business. And then, when it happened that day, when we discussed it in the principle debate, then yesterday, the head of the co-ordination centre in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Zorana Mihajlovic, and she said that this is the co-ordination body, whatever it is called, is called that they agree with what the Government does not agree with, and the National Assembly is. So it's not exactly the flower garden you're trying to introduce. But much more important than that is what will be adopted today, but more importantly what will not, and what Serbian radicals have proposed. It is good that what we have been proposing for 15 or 16 years will be adopted. 16 years ago, we suggested that the censorship be to join the National Assembly and local self-government 3%, you accepted it after 16 years, we have no reason not to accept it either, because that is our idea. We haven't, we said, nothing against the number of women on the list for MPs, but we expressed concern that all political parties and we never speak just for us, have trouble making lists at local level for local self-government, and therefore we can't accept that. We wanted to take advantage of these amendments to the law, when you had already entered this process of change, you were here saying that you had changed three laws, had passed one new law to make better conditions for the next parliamentary and local, rural elections. Of course, you wouldn't have done it for that reason and those laws won't change anything, that's for sure, because nothing fundamentally changed in those laws, because the essence is what the law doesn't have. The point is that for a month and a half, the activists of Serbia's largest political party have been going from door to door and carrying gift packages, carrying food, carrying hygiene packages, and that's the problem that no law will solve until you're ready to really only offer political programmes to citizens, offer voters, so on the basis of political programmes, based on ideas, based on what we've been looking for in the National Assembly, let the voters decide. It's not true what you're trying to convince the people that you're such a good soul, so you're reducing the censorship because of someone else, and you're doing a lot of damage to your stranger. That's not true. It's like that -- we've cut pensions, but my dad's the most. It's not like that. So, yes, it's going to have some impact, but Dont's system of the greatest factor doesn't mean brutally everything that doesn't cross the censorship to go to the odds of the biggest political party. So that's not true and don't deceive the public. We think that it should have come much more seriously to the amendments to these laws, because in addition to what we talked about, what you suggested, as Mrs Comic suggested, if you really wanted the spirit of parliamentary democracy to return to the National Assembly and if you really wanted our voters and those who did not want to go out for a variety of reasons to vote. Many don't go out to vote because they don't like what they see in the National Assembly, what the National Assembly, what it looks like sometimes the National Assembly, and I certainly don't mean the heated debates, but I'm just thinking about flying people's MPs out of one political party to another, so we, for example, have talked about it several times, you know, it's degutant, and just how immoral it is and how politically low it is, and at the end of corruption is pure, that we, for example, have a MP, in fact, that we have a wife, can't even be called a national MP anymore, because it has long failed the will of the people, let's say Marinika Tepic, who just changed three parties in this meeting, plus some independent act, means four total. We have a woman named Sanda Raskovic Ivić, whose own party was taken away, stole the mandate, so she left it alone, gave it to Zivkovic, and at the end of the day to this Jeremy, Gilasu, she no longer knows, and she herself is not sure when a meeting is scheduled, so when she goes, she doesn't know if it's the party she's supposed to attend. All of this is, among other things, the fault of this law and the guilt of you dear fellow Members of the congregation, why don't you take our amendments seriously once. We could also have talked about this as part of another member and that perhaps technically something could be arranged, etc., but we had to return to the law the possibility, or the freedom of the MP to make the mandate available to a political party whose list was elected as a MP. I don't believe there's anyone in this room who thinks differently today. This propaganda of the freedom of the MP to have the mandate, unfortunately, in the state of Serbia, when MPs are who they are, I guess, when people are who we are, it simply cannot be applied and the seas most urgently, that is, it has to be for these elections to change. Also, the debate has been held several times, and in public it is often said that it is not good for every municipality, that fewer municipalities do not have representatives in the National Assembly and so on. Of course, it can be viewed with two aspects. First, I spoke about it this morning, the MP representing, is a MP on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. None of us know exactly who he voted for, except for what your paintings are going to bring to you, those who are employed at a certain time, and that's the problem of the election campaign and election day, but it's not regulated by any of these laws that you've had to do here under the pressure of these European mechanics. But, realistically, it would be politically healthy, it would be a pleasure for members of all political parties, activists first of all, to have political parties be these, in fact, electoral lists to be those that will determine the order of MPs. You accepted what was changed before you, we stress that, it was changed before you, but it doesn't mean that you couldn't change, like, here you are, changing this. So, if one election list participates in the elections, I guess that election list, people in charge of the job, is being followed by an election campaign who works during the election campaign. The election list should have the authority to say - e, this is in 249th place, our candidate, but he was the most agile, he best represented our political programme, he won on his territory the highest, highest percentage of votes, etc. He deserves to be a folk MP, to represent the programme he best presented in the election campaign. We can't do that because we have to tie ourselves to a order that needs to be handed over to RIK in advance. That, people, believe me, is not good. Nor is it good for, in a way, holding back political work in the election campaign. Nor is there any motive exaggerated by that group of people who, by their assessment, are in a passing place, to be active in the election campaign, nor is there any motive for that group of candidates who are somewhere at the end of the list and who do not expect to be MPs. It has to change in order to return to capacity in full, as you like to say, the right way of election campaign without cheating on voters, without false promises, without gifts, without threats, blackmail, etc. simply to represent political programs, so whoever loves to choose. Also, the problem, and I was just talking about it, I have enough time for my colleague to finish this, when the elections are over, we're forming parliamentary groups here at the National Assembly, and so is the local, but what's going on? It happens that the MP gets dark in one parliamentary group, which is adopted in the second, leaves the mandate, changes the parliamentary group, now the parliamentary group exists, doesn't exist tomorrow. Then, because someone left the parliamentary group, so there are no more five, then we have 10, 12, I guess now 16 independent MPs. The Members of Parliament are actually unable to perform the function of the MP, and if they have come to independence in this way by stealing the mandate, they should not actually be allowed to do so. But you don't have to let them do that, not to say -- you can't talk, but -- you're a member of a new parliamentary group, which was formed by the electoral list, and who's on the election list, how many political entities on the election list? As long as anyone wants, puts it on their election lists, but when the elections are over, a political group is formed. We cannot then have one parliamentary group, so we will avoid the farce that people who are in fact from the same parliamentary group are challenging each other to replicas, to, I don't know, ask the members of the government, without coming to the words of MPs who are real and who correspond to the electoral will of the citizens. But, obviously, I'm ending this sentence, my colleague thank you, you obviously had no intention of doing anything serious in these laws, just to fulfill the warrant you received. Thank you and thank you again for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71044	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71045	Thank you. In the argument of the promoter of the last amendment, but not only with it, but with most of those who have commented on issues for local elections lists, there is a sentence – but we cannot find quality women. Where you find high-quality men there are high-quality women. First correction, the shoe is quality, and the woman is capable. The second correction, in every political party in Serbia, is at least 40% of women's membership that come out of their own will and join political parties. That's what I'm asking you to do, let's just take that argument out of the way, because by its meaning and by the message that's being heard, she says -- we don't want women, but that's what we have to do. It would be good for us all to do what we don't have to do together, which is to look at our parties, to see that we have enough women in our membership and to stop getting out of how, well, we would do anything, but they won't go into politics. When a woman joins a political party, she joins a local committee that enters, asks – what should I do? Since she learned by social model that she's doing something, doing good, showing that she's capable, then being some kind of running process or something. A man who enters a political party asks – what am I going to be? Since it's natural for him to be something, something important, because it's inevitable, such patterns of behavior cause common damage. If we don't understand that the capacity for political activity is the same for both men and women, then we also get that we understand that there are capable women among those you won't invite to the committee lists, as there are capable men, and that there are also incompetent women on lists and later on in institutions. In order for a woman to prove she's incompetent at all, you have to give her a quota space so far to show her her abilities in any institution. If you look at the statistics, no matter what Gauss's guilt we can't escape, it shares all our traits, good and bad people in all parties, fools and smart in all parties, beautiful and ugly alike, everyone's belligerent, Gauss's belligerent guilt does not make everything best in one party, no matter how stupid the party, any one, tried to say – e, we are the best, our party is the best. We just don't get that, not Gauss. So, the schedule of various characteristics for both men and women should be the reason that when they are 40% of women, we work together to be able, or responsible, in politics, or the result that someone who entered the local assembly points to the institution and points to the citizens. The amendment that has been accepted has been accepted for the same reasons as the amendment to the Law on the selection of MPs, with good reasons. Once again, I must thank all members of the Women's Parliamentary Network with whom there was direct dialogue, such as Stefani Miladanovic, Snezani Paunovic, Natasi Mihajlovic, of course Marija Obradovic, whose amendment was also accepted, but also Oleni Papugi, Nadi Lazic, who submitted the amendment in almost identical text. This is what should happen about laws governing social ties and social relations, which must be interparty overpartisan co-operation. If we take it learned from this session and we understand that there are good and bad in all parties and in all sectors and that it is good for women to get a chance to show and not do well, then we will further help the general deconstruction of the anger that exists in our society, the general hatred of dialogue in our society, and we will reduce the general injustice of what we should be dealing with, which is the interest of people in Serbia, to deal with improving their position. I thank you for the opportunity to conduct the dialogue during these three days. I really want all women who will fight for their place on the list for local elections, to fight for it together with men on their local committees and to run local congregations for mutual benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71046	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The Faith of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71047	If I hadn't heard, I wouldn't have believed it. This is really the highlight of hypocrisy. That you are a woman, that you suggest that there be 40% of women in the National Assembly, in local congregations, and that you also thank for your participation in the discussion of the bill's proposals, namely for all women, except for the female MPs of the SRS. There, that's your honesty. As far as our honesty is concerned, we really believe that Serbia and quality women and quality men and quality people in general. We are very grateful to all our party committees that are responsible and always have in all committees in Serbia female officials, who each year when our regular annual assembly is held and when ten new members are elected by our statutes to the municipal board, there is always a large number and women on those lists adopted in the annual assembly. But we may be different from you, we're different in many ways, and of course we're different in that. With our political programme, with our relationship to each segment of society, we want as many women as possible, more young people, more disabled people, more pensioners, all of them to be attracted to our programme and to come to the SRS. It's a criterion based on which we further propose candidates for these or those functions. So it's not a good approach, and it's not true, so a colleague who might have said something a little bit similar to what a colleague said that we couldn't find quality women in the community when we were there, where a colleague in Prepolje was. We also had a director of the tourist organization of the wife and vice president of the municipality and public enterprises there, we have no problem. Serbia has equal quality both women and men.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71048	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right on the line, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71049	Thank you. I mentioned perfectly all those MPs and MPs who wanted to participate in the dialogue on how to improve, how to change, from the amendment, from surprise to the end of the agreement. No one from the SRS took part in that. You participate in the discussion, I listen very carefully, but what you're saying, everybody knows it by heart, always the same thing. It is participation, but it is neither the subject matter of the law nor the dialogue with me. It's your right. I will defend your right to say what you want, but it has nothing to do with the subject of this law. They're monologues. You're always in the Assembly for telling everyone your monologue. No dialogue ever, anywhere. And that's your right. I advocate dialogue, I fight for dialogue, and there were a lot of women and men here that I know they don't like, they can't see my eyes, but they've accepted the magic of a dialogue that creates a common result that's good for everyone. As I feel the need to thank all of them who have agreed to or agreed to participate in this, so I defend your right to despise dialogue and to announce that you are all great, and all of this that we are doing with dialogue is more or less meaningless. I don't think that's true, but your right to stand is your right to stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71050	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic answered, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71051	Mr Marinkovic, I have been reporting for some time and I expected you to interrupt Mrs Komic much earlier and that you will not allow her to insult and label the entire assembly in this way. It's about a member of 107th violation of the National Assembly's dignity and perhaps... (Gordana Comić: I haven't started yet, but I can. And you haven't even begun your insults yet? No, Mrs. Comic, thank God you're almost done with the insults, because they're gonna kick you out of the DS, and maybe there's no better way to end your career, except this way of reporting...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71052	Comrade Sarovic, don't speak directly to Mrs. Komic. Please point to how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, don't create such an atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71053	Here, I'm done. So, it is precisely perhaps the most important message of this session, that after all the stories during the eight years of your authority, how the yellow thieves have devastated and ruined Serbia, in the end we see that you are actually sharing all the same values and that very quickly, as Mrs. Comic says, you share in good and bad, so she is suddenly good, although until yesterday and all these years ago she wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71054	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71055	It's interesting how dialogue is going on, someone who doesn't participate in the debate all day, but picks up after five hours and tells us what he has to say and calls dialogue, and the MPs here are saying they have monologues. But well, it's a matter of understanding and understanding, and we're not getting involved. But it's interesting, this lady who's eager for dialogue and who advocates dialogue, where she's been for six months, a year almost, in some deep illegality, with whom she's had a dialogue? She wasn't here to argue, to have dialogue, to participate in the debate, until she made a combination of political benefits to herself, well, then she showed up. Of course, now she and you are going to deny it, but here's a quick election list, so you're going to see what's after this. That's also her problem. But it is truly amazing that there is someone talking about the lack of dialogue who has been chairing the National Assembly for a few years, who has given at least five warnings to every MP, someone who has been throwing out all the parliamentary groups, and then reads that the MP is being expelled from work, for example, in order, and then Steve Dragisic, who is at the moment in Batajnica, Bozidar Vukurovic, who is at that moment in Igal. So much for some democracy, some respect for parliamentaryism. You know, I've told a lot of people a lot -- campeicity can't replace arguments. So, we're seriously involved in the work here, we're making our contribution, we're proposing, not to her, we're proposing to the congregation majority, we're proposing, we're saying again, and a new law on perpetrators with more than 100,000 signatures, so you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71056	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Maja Gojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71057	Thank you. The purpose of my report is to really get back to the subject of the amendment and the addition of the two laws that we have -- I would like to ask my colleagues, especially those who came before the end of the session, to listen, not to me, but to MPs who have been here since this morning, and to talk about really important changes and additions to laws that essentially change Serbia since today, the vote, for future time. All the things we've heard lately as if it was intended to bury what we've been doing and what we're doing and what we're going to do and what we're going to do by voting on amendments and supplementing the laws that we have ahead of us. If the honourable MPs representing the citizens of Serbia or at least claim to do so, no matter what political option they belong to, then also belong to an option that convinces us for a few days that they represent our views and that for an even greater representation of women in the political life of Serbia or someone else, they have a sense after 30 years of dealing with a policy to hear and someone else, and not that in every political move they seek conspiracy, they are looking for some kind of imaginary agreement and they already know what it will be, when it will be, and by doing so they are looking for an excuse for when the session is concluded they will come out of the hall and they will not actually vote for a greater representation of women in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia at the site, and that they are actually being explained - well, we are thinking about women. That's not true. If I hadn't been in that same party for years, I might have believed it. But I have bitter examples, when there was a comment on a woman who wanted to run for president of Serbia, that she couldn't do it because she's a woman and she doesn't have children. And there has never been a question in this party, and what I'm saying is in many parties, there is no question whether a man who doesn't have children can be president of Serbia? It's never been set up. So when someone is said to be campeic, not to understand, yes, it is time to listen to who really represents women's equality and who needs to convince us for days that something is just like that, and then they'll come out and they won't give the law, that even legal women have the right to participate more in Serbia's political life, not just declaratively, because, well, we're just promising them that we'll think of them. That's not true. If it hadn't been for one-third of the system quotas, many women wouldn't be sitting here today in parliament. No one would know about them. And that's true. It's not some exclusiveity for Serbia, it's so everywhere in Europe and it's so in most countries in the world. Well, there's nothing in there that's a little pessimistic, but it's not true. I know exactly who he would be and who he would never be. And the odds did something big after all. If it hadn't been for those quotas, we wouldn't be talking today about increasing women's representation in parliament. Someone's gonna believe someone's fairy tales, somebody's not. But there's no conspiracy here. So, we are not yet mature as a society that can happen that the MPs of the ruling majority accept that the law proposed by one of the opposition ranks is first discussed, which is this time Gordana Comic. Well, that's not why we're putting her on a pillar of shame! They'll do it enough for some other people who don't understand what she's done. In her ethical and moral dilemma, she decided between the party and the good law on this second. And I totally understand her. I'm sorry, Gordana, for talking about you for a second, but in one part of my political life, I was in a similar dilemma. And it's not easy to do. And that's why we shouldn't attack her and insult her. Because it is brave to make a decision in your life, after 30 years, to close one door and try to open another door, and these are not the doors of the Serbian Progressive Party. That's what I'm responsible for. You're all going to attack her. You'll all be looking for a conspiracy. Now, that's the prejudice towards a woman. If a man who deals with politics had done so, there would have been less of an otter of hatred and misunderstanding than when a woman does. And that would be great. That's what men used to do in this assembly. They moved from bench to bench, but women are flyers, traitors, this, that, and men are deeply thought out political beings who know why they're going to go from one party to another, from one club to another club. And why aren't they MPs anymore, he resigned, and why did he come? Yeah, they're politicians, and we're selling ourselves! And they don't sell! So we have no right to think. So I broke and suggested to my colleagues in the Serbian Progressive Party that we unite the debate, show what real dialogue is. I have left the party president to discuss with us whether the law is good or not, and we have decided that all four laws are excellent, to move things in our society, to allow a reduction of 5% to 3% of democratic pluralism in this House, to prevent the political life of this country from happening on the street. We introduce it to parliament, allow citizens of Serbia to vote in favour of different political programmes. And to show them, because they have political options that they can vote for in late April, that what someone is trying to do on the street is pointless and not good for Serbia. The more in our opposition politicians' society, who want to vote for themselves, the right to express their political ideas right here in parliament, thanks to the voices of Serbian citizens, they welcome. Now, there's a difference between a person who deals with politics seriously and who's a politician, and on the other hand, politics and someone who says, I do politics. There is a huge difference between politicians and those who are involved in politics or are part of politics. We don't expect everyone to understand our move. But the citizens of Serbia will understand, they will go to the elections. He'll go to the election over 50%. After 30 years of politics, I feel it. Those who say they'll boycott will come out today. The boycotter will be the one who's full of money and he's not interested in participating in Serbia's political life here in these benches. That is why he drags Serbian citizens by the nose and tow and these others who still have time in the EU to listen to him a few of his like-minded. I'm sure he'll go to the polls in Capco. Those who lie make up that they won't make up the election. They'll come out in Paracino, they'll come out in Belgrade, in the Old Town municipality, they'll come out everywhere. Therefore, this is a very good, historic political decision – reducing the censorship from 5% to 3% and returning dialogue to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where all this time was its place. Secondly, what Gordana Komic has suggested, which we have all honestly accepted, and now we are going to rephrase what is good in all the political programmes, regardless of which political party we are in and in action. So, enough to talk in the stands -- women, women, women, and then watch us not vote. No, now we're going to vote, open the door to the law on gender equality, and fill in what the president of the SRS said on the first day he spoke, and why women should no longer be represented in the executive government. I agree with him. I absolutely agree with him, but first we need to make it possible for someone to appear in parliament and speak for all of it. I say, we've entered history. I am convinced that we will have 126 votes and that this assembly of parliament will enter history. I don't know what it's like with your cell phones, your letters, my phone on the first day when we didn't have that kind of media attention at first as one of some sessions, it's kind of hot from messages from women who even have my number of phones, different educations, from urban and rural areas, from cities and villages with a message of similar content – Bravo, bravo! So, this woman, this is our voters' wish. So enough of this underestimation that we are such a sex, like this, half weak, we are capable, we can make political decisions, vote for laws, propose laws, run serious resolutions in this country, run major economic systems. Because if we can lead a family well and someone trusts us, if we can manage our households well, if we can be good in political campaigns, then we can certainly be good MPs, representatives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I invite you all to put aside the way in which the political party belongs, when we make one historic decision, and that no matter how we discuss it, we vote yes, because it is a vote for the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71058	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. First, right on the line, Gordana Komic. Mrs. Comic, here you go, then Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71059	Thank you. No, there won't be a replica, because there's no need for replicas, there'll be a brief, final address during this session, and that's through the quotes of two great women, Michelle Basel and Mary Robinson, one from Chile, the other from Ireland, to show what we've done here today. We've turned those quotes into life. They said: “When a woman enters politics, she must change herself, she must change everything she knew about the world and people until that moment. When thousands of women enter politics, they change politics, and when you hear enough and see enough women in society, that society is no longer a woman or less a man, that society is more human." That's what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71060	Thank you. Replic to whom? I didn't mention it, except in a positive sense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71061	Very short. We're saying there won't be more women at the bar with this law than it was before. There are many, many groups of citizens, smaller political parties, fewer council members in municipalities and there, for example, several parties are given three council members. If their wives were candidates number four and five, they wouldn't have any wives, and under this existing law, they'd have one, because three, less than three can't win. So, alive, so we see. We claim, in most local self-government, there will be fewer women under this law than the one that is now in force. I fully understand Mrs. Gojkovic, who remembered how offended she was, because I shared her opinion, given that we are in the same status, when Tomislav Nikolic said that she could not be a candidate for the president of the Republic, because of her personal status and I felt sorry for her, because I personally felt affected. As far as conspiracy theory is concerned, whether we have some conspiracy theories and it will be seen very quickly, in ten, 15 days, it will be seen whether what we're saying is a conspiracy theory or if it's really something that we claim has happened and that it preceded these laws, as it will be seen very quickly, that someone will behave in this room and I'm afraid that someone will have to at least blush because of the discussion that was here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71062	Correction, Dragan Todorovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say something, I suggest that the weaker sex is 90%, if it were mathematically possible. It's mathematically not feasible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after an important amendment, I am willing to vote in favour of this proposal, although originally I did not want to vote, for the simple reason that in the local elections, women have hardly had a chance. The average congregation counts somewhere between 35 and 40 council members. If you take the first 10, four to be women, so that's the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth place knowing our interior, that would be so, which would mean that all the lists that don't win 15% of the votes in the 40-seat parliaments wouldn't have a single woman. Now between five and two, it's still less than they were guaranteed before, but because of equality in the republican and local elections, this is, I'm not a woman, but this is more acceptable to me from a woman's point of view, and that's why I'm going to vote, because of Maria Obradovic's amendment, for these proposals, because it seems that the proposer only took care of the republican elections, so let's say for a 3% censorship, it must have been at least eight women, then it made sense that among the first eight women, even the seventh and eighth women. This way it's more acceptable. By the way, my dear ladies, let's keep an eye on the men. For example, I love that this proposal came from a member of the DS, but I have long claimed that the party was simply called democratic. It was just a democratic one. The latest events confirm that. I wonder why this proposal wasn't while they were in power, they could adopt it, however they wanted and whenever they wanted. Furthermore, since they haven't been in power and since they haven't shared their wealth, so there have been nine parties -- Lutovac, SDS, Together for Serbia, People's Party, Left Serbia, Freedom and Justice Party, that is this Gilasova, which, after the last events, that chocolate and 619 million, that party can be called – but it's sweet and so on, the Movement for Turnover Janko Veseinovic, LDP Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, the New Party. Nine parties, none of them are led by women, although Boris Tadic is a bit suspicious to me, Velja called him Sisa Persa. My dear wife, to take good care of the next phenomenon because we have, say, Borko Stefanovic, changed the parliamentary group, changed the political party... (President: MP, we are talking about the bill and your amendment that an amendment or law should take effect the next day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I suggested it when it came into effect... (President: I don't see how we can publish Borko Stefanovic in "The Official Messenger". ) To observe a phenomenon called - Borko Stefanovic, because he changed the club, changed its residence, his name was Borislav, now called Borko, to make sure that he doesn't happen to be called Borka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-08-0.u71064	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Saturday, 8 February 2020, starting at 17.30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to deciding on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. I would ask the MPs to hurry up with a card and ask them to enter the O.R. if they intend to approach the vote. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that we have conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the selection of MPs, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 150, against – no one with abstention – two voted – three. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. What? I don't understand what. I closed the vote and read the results. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes, but we were not registered by the system, we could not vote. You voted for it? Only to repeat the vote. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. ) Please, if we could communicate by having a session, and you can call if something's wrong, then we'll achieve something, and if there's a general jam in the O.R., someone's trying to point out some irregularities I can't figure out what's wrong. Five MPs not registered. We repeat the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the selection of MPs, in principle. On my screen, it's visible who voted. I conclude the vote: for – 156, against – no one, abstentioned – two voted – two MPs I find that the National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the motion for an amendment to Nikola Sarovic's title of the bill... (Alexander Seselj: Who submitted? What? (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. I am voting the amendment I have here. I ask the MPs of the SRS to stop disturbing the vote. Only to agree to apply the Rules of Procedure until the end of the session, until it is concluded and we go with the warnings. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—16 MPs, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Nenada Chanka and Olena Papuga on Article 1. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I am voting on the amendment of Miladin Sevarlic to article 1 with an amendment. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put Zika Gojkovic's amendments to Article 1 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am voting on amendments from Saša Radulovic, Branke Stamenković and Vojin Biljic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 1. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to article 1 with a correction. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I put the amendments to the Social Democratic Party of Serbia on Article 1. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. I put Nada Lazic's amendment to Article 1 to the vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 which are in the same text, tabled by Fatmir Hasani and the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Serb Party. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I am voting on the amendment of Ruzica Nikolic to article 1 with the correction. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – seven. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for – 13. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Finalising vote: for – 14. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 12. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. Finalising vote: for -three. As we are done with the amendments, I would like to put the motion on vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 157 against – two abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 157 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the selection of MPs. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the selection of MPs, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 156, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted - four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 15. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 1 which was tabled by five MPs of the "Modern Serbia Party" parliamentary group. Finalising vote: for – seven. I am putting amendments to Article 1 to be put to the vote by the MPs of the People's Republic of Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together. Finalising vote: in – six. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for – 15. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – 13. As we are done with the amendments, I would like to put the motion on vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 157 against – two, they did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on selecting Members of the People, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 157, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill amending the Law on the election of MPs. Congratulations to all women in Serbia! We move to the third item of the agenda - Proposal for an Amending and Completing Law on Local Elections I am putting the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 157, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by the MP Natasa Sp Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 15. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 13. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for – 14. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Finalising vote: for – 14. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Finalising vote: for – 15. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by eight MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. Finalising vote: for – 13. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Finalising vote: in – six. I am putting the amendments to vote, in the same text, on Article 2 which has been tabled by five MPs from the modern-Serbian parliamentary group and MP Fatmir Hasani. Finalising vote: in – six. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: for – 11. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – 12. I put the amendments to Article 3 together by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 157 against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 158, against – no one, abstentioned – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Local Elections, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 141, against – 15 abstentions – two did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I am voting on amendments to Article 1 tabled by the parliamentary group "The Party of Modern Serbia". Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 141, v – 17, abstention – one, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Local Elections, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – 15, with abstention – two, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Local Elections. I want to thank everyone and congratulate you on the results of today's vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 20nd extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
