ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72630	I ask all MPs to put their cards in their units. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 63 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of the Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present, so we have a quorum and the possibility of continuing our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic and Vesna Ivkovic. We continue the search in detail on item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Rights of the Borians, Military Invalides, Civilian Invalids of War and Members of their Families pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government and their associates have been invited to attend. Today, Minister, Mr Zoran Djordjevic and Mr Nenad Neric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs are with us. This time I welcome them and welcome them. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Rights of the Borants, Military Invalids, Civilian Invalids of War and Members of their Families The amendment was submitted by the National MP Alexander Seselj. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Would you like a word, Professor? You have to insert the card to answer the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72631	Thank you very much. In total, I have submitted 12 amendments in agreement with fighters and wartime wartime people who have been protesting under tents in the park for the fifth month and who have been accepted by the President of the Republic and the five ministers, I do not know whether they were all male or female ministers, but unfortunately none of these amendments that they have requested have been approved, or not accepted by the government, or by the resolution ministry. Therefore, this Article 7 determines the status of a fighter and classification in the category of fighter who have the right to a combat supplement. It should be pointed out and the rights set out in this law are based on the principle of national recognition. Accordingly, the solution provided for by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, in my opinion, contrary to this article because the solution proposed is based solely on the principle of social assistance. Since she has put on clauses that condition the fighter with social status so that he can exercise his right to a martial arts supplement. I think it is absolutely necessary for all fighters to gain the status of a worthy citizen, i.e. to exercise the right to a combat supplement in order to give them recognition for their willingness and sacrifice for the people and country, especially given that deserters are pardoned and that the fighter and deserter must not be found at the same level and that the fighter must be raised, not only in relation to the deserter, but also in relation to the ordinary citizen. That's my proposal, and I'm asking the Minister to respect this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72632	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. According to the Rules of Procedure, Verica Radeta reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72633	The public should also know the administration is why I intervene in the Rules of Procedure, that you from the ruling coalition are having more and more problems providing quorum for the start of the voting session. And now it took a session to be interrupted, not half an hour to wait here to sort of strangely gather those 184, as much as you said there were MPs in the O.R. By simply counting, this is how it was seen that you were 82, I don't know that technique you manage to arrange. We didn't want to intervene then in this sense to count ourselves, to call ourselves, etc., but we simply want the public to know that the ruling majority has serious quorum problems now in the finale of this assembly's calling. In addition to this, I would like to appeal to article 128 and invite the service to collect all these cards where there is no MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72634	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. This remark of yours, of course, will be appreciated. As for the cards the MPs left, they went out. As far as the quorum itself is concerned, the first thing you had to do was intervene with a breach of the Rules of Procedure right after that. Now you've intervened after Professor Chevarlic's speech. As for most and quorum, don't worry. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? So the problem is that I didn't realize at the right time that you didn't have a quorum and you didn't have one. You don't have to plead. We don't have a problem. We work full steam like we're at the beginning of a term. You can see for yourself. Thank you. (The Faith of Radeta: Since you will find it difficult to secure the voting quorum, do not plead. Thank you. Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić responded after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72635	Thank you. Of course I'm completely in favour of the government's opinion that the amendment should not be accepted. Article 7 of the law mentioned in detail, and depending on the length of military engagement, classifies fighters in three categories, first, second and third. I must point out that with regard to the adoption of this law and participation in the drafting of the Bill's proposal, there was a large number of fighting organizations, over 50. A total of 1600 people from local self-government participated, from the competent ministries of fighting organisations, because we must not forget that the debate on this law was conducted in 13 cities as well. What I want to point out is, this law defines itself precisely for the first time and defines the term of a fighter for the first time. What I must also point out is that unlike Tadic, Gilas, Jeremic, who were ashamed of our fighters, who fought honestly and honestly for territorial integrity and sovereignty until 1992, both for the former SFRY and for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the SRJ, i.e. the SCG State Community. They were ashamed of those fighters who heroically defended our homeland in Kosharam and Pastric. They were ashamed of them, probably courting those against whom these fighters fought. For the first time, the fighters from Koshar and Paštrik have been given full recognition for their magnificent struggle, for their heroic defense of our country just showed Alexander Vukic, just in those words, saying that for 20 years there was a lot of shame and shame, television silence and silence for these fighters. Also, Aleksandar Vukic stated that these fighters are the best part of us and the best part of Serbia. During the yellow tycoon company of Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic and these in different aggregate states, I no longer know what their names are, and the sky over the Republic of Serbia was not free. Not that the planes couldn't fly, the planes of course during the yellow tycoon company didn't even stop, but the sparrows were also impossible to fly over the Republic of Serbia, because the airspace wasn't free. The first to relax the airspace along the administrative line with AP KiM was Alexander Vukic in 2015, when he was in the prime minister's seat. The area has been relaxed and the sky over Serbia has become free. No one to Alexander Vukic, and 75 years passed, went and laid flowers on the monument "At the Airport of Freedom and Alliance of the United States and the troops of General Draža Mihajlovic". It is one of the most famous military operations known as "Halyard", where the citizens of Prajan and troops of the army in the country of General Draža Mihajlovic saved 500 US pilots. America didn't forget that, but that's why all the authorities to Alexander Vukic forgot about it. It was not allowed into historical textbooks, it was not to be spoken of. Serbia is an anti-fascist country. We pay tribute to all the fighters who fought for the freedom of our country. Serbia is a free country and through this law we show exactly respect for the fighters, because by respecting the fighters we actually respect ourselves. Of course, the love of the country, the love of its people, the love of Serbia's progress must win, and that is Alexander Vukic's policy. All that other stuff is evil, good must overcome that evil and send that evil in the yellow tycoon company of robbers, liars, frauds and manipulators to the grave of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72636	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. The amendment, which is added after Article 7a, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72637	Part of my amendment is in line with the amendments submitted by General Delic, a man who probably best, not likely, but certainly knows best how to fight problems among this National Assembly. It's really worrying that the Resort Ministry didn't accept any of his amendments, and neither did mine. Here's a chance for you to accept one of the amendments that doesn't involve financial taxes, since it's a constant excuse that there's no money in the budget. If there's money for other things, it should be found for fighters, at least proportionately. Therefore, Amendment 7a, which combatants propose, is that proven deserters are prohibited from performing any public function. It's those deserters who are legally condemned by the decisions of competent courts, military or civilian, but I don't know how it's all regulated. The reasons for this solution are the objections of the consulted acquaintances of the issue and the need to supplement the proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to ban proven deserters from performing public functions. This is of paramount importance for the preservation of morals and inciting patriotism, to prevent someone who at some point cared more about himself than the state and the people from performing their public function. This someone is absolutely unsuitable to perform public functions, because he has proved that he is ready to put his personal interests ahead of social and such persons absolutely need to be banned from performing public functions, because there is no reason why deserter should be allowed to be in a position to re-issue state interests for the sake of personal interest or even, hypothetically, to be the commander-in-chief of Serbia's Army. These are the attitudes of the fighters, and that is the proposal they asked me to make in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72638	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The Minister, Mr Zoran Djordjevic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72639	I have to realize that I get the impression that you haven't even read the law, and you have no idea what the fighters are looking for, and they don't know themselves because we've had meetings with them five times, and five times they've given completely other things and completely other requirements. Their basic requirement is that the issue for fighters is increased by twice as much money as it has been given so far. It is not disputed to give them twice as much and this country wants to give as much as it can for the fighters, because they are someone who stood in front of this country when it was needed most. But don't just please tell me about things that have nothing to do with this law. The deserters are the ones convicted in court. There's guilt and there's a solution. When you're employed in any public function, you need to bring in a document saying you're not convicted. If you're convicted of anything, including desertion, which is a crime, you have a lead and there's a lead that you can't get a job on any public function. Therefore, it should not be written at all in this law, and in any of their demands they did not ask for it, but they asked for a day of fighters, which we said was undeniable, but it was subject to another law. That they have a special ministry, which is not the subject of this law, but is the subject of the Ministry Act. That they have the status of fighters, which here for the first time in this law exists. Now, the personal demands of some of them, when it comes to PTSD, that's where we came out completely, to say that it's not true that we didn't get to meet them. After meeting with the president where they put out their fifth attitudes and fifth demands, some of those who were real we certainly put in here. You can't say, this law is very specific. All the associations, all the alliances and all those who wanted to participate were involved in this law, and according to this, this law is specific. It is also specific because every public debate in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to laws is held in at least five cities. This one's at 13, and the associations asked to be in Rumo at 14. We were also in Ruma at 14. Therefore, we saw that literally everything that was sought and these men protesting in front of the war veterans, not the fighters, not the category of fighters, but the military disabled, those who are in front of the congregation, or in the park. For them, this law was a step ahead. That's what everybody can do, ask them if they want to be honest, and yet on the other hand when it comes to fighters, I'm distracting you again, there is, and you've now quoted that member as being introduced for the first time. What was the idea of the law? So far, there has been no record of any category, anyone involved in any war. We don't have in the country today the exact number of those who are in the status of a fighter, wartime military disabled, civilian disabled, veterans and all other categories, we don't. We can't claim anything that we can do to anyone or anything, some new privileges, when we don't know how many there are. We want with this first time to establish a register, that register allows every local self-government, not only of the state, to know how many categories there are in local self-government and then to have pressure and associations, and alliances, and ministries, and countries of local self-government to enable, in accordance with that number, certain privileges of these very categories, because then they will be able to budget and to know how many of them there are. If there are 300, there are no 301 or 299, and they won't be able to be misused, because now it's the first time there's been an ID. So every single one of them, when given a right to local self-government or state, will be able to achieve that right and will not be able to be faked. You yourself know what kind of problems we've had in the past and you know for yourself what's done and who's been getting some kind of confirmation. Who got confirmation that he had free kindergarten, free parking and who was all a person with disabilities. That's why it's been abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72640	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic is entitled to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72641	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'll be looking for a reception with you in the future when I prepare the amendments and watch me read the law. If I hadn't read the law, I wouldn't have been able to propose this amendment, because it's not contained in the law, and I've been asked to return the text without a number, to complete what part it should belong to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72642	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72643	We discuss those who are better than us, who are more responsible than all of us who sit here. This law aims to reconcile the living, and it means nothing to the dead. Instead of doing so, we are again making a division of ideological, national division in Serbia and in this law we are again dividing ourselves into Chetniks and Partisans. Once again, we have monumentists of those who are antifascists and those who are not, but are monuments. This was an opportunity to finally and through legal provisions, without any amendments to make a national reconciliation. We Serbian radicals speak to you with full law because establishing a Serbian Chetnik movement was the goal of national reconciliation in Serbia. There are also these differences in the heads of individuals who point out that the advantage of their ancestors being on one side or on the other was conditional, but they were fighters against fascism both and the other and we listened also during yesterday as some bring about their own history, they think they will fascinate us. Only in their heads and in their heads, we at least claimed so, Danice Draskovic, there is division of the Chetniks and partisans and we have not managed to reconcile it, but there remains that difference. We know, Mr. Minister, that it is difficult to meet all the demands and needs of those who fought for Serbia, those who fought for freedom and ours and theirs. Serbia, ministers, defended itself in both Knin and Vrginmost and Petrinja, has defended Serbia everywhere. This is not a great financial need to separate itself from the budget and for those who fought, because they started fighting as members of the Yugoslav People's Army, not as members of the Republika Srpska Army. So it all started and the law says that those who were within the regular units have the right to certain benefits, have the right to certain compensations, and we here share again those who were in the Republika Srpska Army and those who did not. We share those who defended Serbia in Kosharam, compared to those who defended Serbia at the western borders of Serbian countries. We know that aside from the IMF, it's very difficult to get through the budgets of anything that would be compensation, at least part of compensation, for the patriotism of those who risked their lives and the families of those who lost their loved ones. Since 2000, it has almost become a modernity for those who participated in Serbia's defence and for the preservation of freedom to be abolished all rights. We had that chance. You remember, in 2000, after 5 October, all those who were part of the interior ministry were engaged in Serbia's defence, sovereignty and integrity were fired overnight. Do you have a better example than an example of a special ops unit, under the cover that all criminals are disbanded such an elite unit? Do you have a better example than those who lost their jobs at the Ministry of the Interior, so do you have a better example than those who fought in Republika Srpska, are now still homeless officers. Why? Because that doesn't continue to fit in with all the strings, it doesn't match those who control the IMF and any item that would be in terms of increasing the lives of these people who deserve it, that would be the reluctance of the IMF. Our attitude is very clear. It doesn't take a lot of resources to get these people to meet, all it takes is goodwill and nothing else. And to those of you who bombed us yesterday with this personal family history, it's incomprehensible to me personally, how did your ancestors become members of the Ravnogore movement, and none of your close relatives moved to America or somewhere in the diaspora, but stayed here? No, it serves you to support this warming to divide Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72644	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. Here you go, Comrade Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72645	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 that regulates the issue of civil disabled war and civilian war victims. This amendment does not cover 12 civilian war victims from the region of Krajina. I asked for Article 22 to be completed in item 4 which reads that, as civil disabled, wars are defined and victims of wars that were wounded, injured and injured in the territories of the former SFRY republics from January 1st 1991 to December 31st 1995. My amendment was rejected, I quote: "For reasons that it is not possible for the Republic of Serbia to provide legal protection for civil persons with disabilities and civil war victims, persons who have suffered physical damage or died outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is not possible to assess the amount of financial resources necessary to implement the law and ensure their legal protection." I don't agree with this argument of the government, for two reasons. First of all, this law rightly resolves the issue of military people with disabilities and families of fallen fighters from the former Yugoslavia, therefore, and from the territory of Republika Srpska. In that sense, I can only welcome this bill of law that regulated that area in a just way. The second question I was talking about, I don't want to repeat myself, it's a question of fighters. I also disagree with the government's second argument that it is not possible to assess the amount of funds needed. Mr. Djordjevic, we know exactly that there are 12 civilian invalid wars from the region of Krajina that are not covered, i.e. that the personal disability was abolished in 2013, when a federal regulation was put out of effect. In fact, over a thousand civilian war people have received personal disability through the federal regulation of 2000. They all received 12 years of personal disability, however, by abolishing this federal regulation, over a thousand disabled persons were translated into a republican level, only 12 civilian disabled wars from the Krajina area were left without a personal disability. Here I will quote, even of those 12 civilian disabled wars several examples, among them, I already mentioned in the principle debate, Jelena Vukovovac of Vrhovina, born in 1983, was 22 years old, when she died in the criminal action "Storm", more specifically in Ljičko Leskovec, for more than 24 hours she received medical help until she came to Banja Luka. Invalid is 80%, or disabled, of the fourth category. The second case, Gorana Trivic, who was born in 1982 in Knin, was wounded in 1995, also in the Crime Action "Storm", was only 13 years old, she is completely blind and 100% disabled, or disabled in the first category. She also received 12 years of personal disability, and since 2013 she has no longer received that disability. The third case was Milka Nesic, who was in 1954, was wounded in 1991 in Vukovar. Then, Nikola Medakovic, 1979, wounded in Vukovar in 1992. Gordana Dudukovic, wounded in 1991 in Lipik. Milan Petrovic, 1982, wounded in 1995 in Okucane, during the crime action "Bleak". Nada Vukosavljevic, born 1958, wounded in 1991 in Tenj. Smilja Vučenović, so I named eight names and the last name of civilian disabled wars, in the province, there are four other civilian disabled wars, I have not yet received their names. So, Mr. Djordjevic, Mr. Neric, I would ask you to see today, or before the vote, that this amendment be adopted and that these 12 Krajina, the civilian invalids of war, be covered by this law, and that after seven years, since the abolition of the personal disability, they finally get that right and continue to receive it. I think that would correct the injustice of these 12 civilian disabled wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72646	Thank you, Mr. Linta. National MP Sreto Peric submitted the title above Article 24 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72647	The Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War, members of their families, is a provision for the future of a single state. The struggle to defend the country, its independence, sovereignty, order is a lasting value, and it can be motivated and can be in the desire of its citizens on condition that those who have had the opportunity already to stand out, as such, means that warrior fighters can motivate others to work constantly and continuously and have a desire to defend their country. Mr. Minister, you're wrong when you say all deserters are being processed. No, some have even made hasty progress, but because they haven't been processed. So there are those who avoided participation in the war, and they were obliged to do so, because the state invested in their knowledge, in their skills and the rest, but later accelerated and progressed. Okay, now we need to keep that in mind, and we're absolutely sure that by one law, such a delicate question could not have been solved, perhaps to the satisfaction of all the factors, or entities to which it will apply. But if you can, in the ministry of which Zorana Mihajlovic commands, that legal regulations change several times a year, why don't you think about some changes and supplements now, if the amendments of the SRS MPs were unacceptable to you. Several of my colleagues have already said that we are opposed to the term “paint fighter. ” Fire, I don't want to put anything in a tricky situation right now. Someone who's still alive can fall down and get up. We asked here to stand the dead fighters. This Article 24 defines the rights of families of fighters, disabled people and in the position of the 3rd member is said who is considered members of the family, the dead fighter. Well, he's here a little bit, I'd say illogically -- a spouse or a face who lived with a fallen fighter in an out-of-marriage community, well, that's how it was regulated in other laws -- and with him had a child in common. And what if it didn't? And what if it couldn't have? I think this is completely pointless. Next, when you say who is considered a fallen fighter, or a dead fighter, grandfather, a fallen fighter's grandmother, or dead again, why not a grandson, if Grandpa can't die a fighter and a grandmother, why can't his grandson have the status of a family member? These members to whom this law applies, and they are alive, should have all the privileges, not just what we are about to write here, our relationship with them, and this can be expressed on the street, it can be expressed by our relationship with these people. It needs to be inherited, and what the state is obliged to do, there is no dilemma, there should go with the widest possible help, but their statuses, their statuses that will be defined through the law. There is no dilemma, from the right and opportunity to be treated, to the right and the opportunity to perform, to represent our country and to appear at some celebrations necessarily and certainly in the front rows before those who will be on some lists, which should be on lists and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72648	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 24. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I hope you will begin to answer the questions asked by the MPs of the SRS, it turns out this way that you are criticising Mr. Chevarlic that he has not read the law, and you prefer to answer it. Those of us who read it undisputedly, and I believe that we make quality arguments, you are most often defended by silence. I have submitted this amendment asking that the word be burned by a fighter, in exchange for a word, a dead fighter. We believe that there is no reason to continue to slave to this, I would say, the communist heritage and that flossula are fallen by a fighter who existed in the laws that were passed under the hard communist rule after World War II. Respect starts from there, from what someone's death will be called. If anyone gets killed on the battlefield, he's dead. You here, in the light of the fact that you refuse the amendment, give a completely pointless explanation and say, "You can't stand dead because by the word of fire, you mean those who have passed away within a year of the armed actions in which they participated." Well, for God's sake, if someone dies, or dies from the effects of war, then of course he died, and they count as dead fighters. What adds, let's say, some confusion is that when you talk about soldiers, you speak of dead soldiers, and when you use a term - a fighter, then you say a fallen fighter. There is no reason for such a thing, and I would further ask you to answer those questions that you are not in the principle debate, which we have set and which are very important, first of all, to answer us how many fighters the first category is, how many fighters the second category, how many third category fighters are. It's a key piece of information, and I think it's incomprehensible that the ministry didn't write it in the light of the law, because if it moves in the preparation of the law and if it decides on someone's rights, then it has to be known, maybe not individually and not precisely to the end, that we know exactly what that number is, but that number is precisely determined by maybe plus or minus a few percent, you should know that. Everything else would mean that you really didn't do this job seriously before you left, before you proposed such a bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72650	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this Law on the Rights of Fighters is concerned, we can write and pass any laws, the fighters will not benefit from that until access to the authority of this category of people who created and who fought and gave their lives for this country is changed. Our famous Duke Zivojin Misic did not say that there was to be a monument, a common monument to the Serb soldier and the Serbian ox, because they won wars, and after the wars they passed the same. The ox is slaughtered and the fighters are forgotten. In this regard, we should imitate some other nations and see what they have in this regard to their fighters. Here, if we didn't go far, although it's not relevant, you see, the state of Croatia has the Ministry of Defence and so on, but I don't want to talk about their defenders, I would like to set an example of some other states, some serious peoples and states that were once empires. Let's say, the state of France. And today in Paris there is one of the most beautiful squares in the world, a square where there is a “Triumphalen gate” and it is dedicated to those who created and who gave their lives for France, and by that, for example, France and the city of Paris are recognizable. It's not just the case with France and Paris. That's the case we have in other countries. For example, one of the largest statues, the largest statue in the world is located in Volgograd - "Motherland calls", which is 87 meters tall, which is dedicated to those who gave their lives in the Stalingrad battle and thus saved not only Russia, or then the Soviet Union, but all humanity from fascism. But we're kind of cursed about those who created our country. If it wasn't for these social networks, and today many people wouldn't know, they wouldn't have heard of the youngest corporal in the history of Momcell Gavric's war, they wouldn't have heard of the youngest soldier and the Republika Srpska army who gave their life, the Memorial of Gostic and much more. We wouldn't know about this glorious battle of our soldiers in the kosharams and much more. Indeed, such things should be included in textbooks that our children from elementary, high school, and even in colleges learn that they keep saying that we had famous fighters and that we had such a history where we should always have this attitude and every respect for those who defended and created this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72652	Thank you, Professor. I'll bend. An amendment to which a new Article 24a is added after Article 24. The People's MP, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72653	Mr. Vice-President, I have joined this member with the proposals of other amendment applicants to replace the word "paint fighter" with "dead" and therefore defined this Article 24a as: "The family of the dead fighter, fighter and wartime wartime disabled, as well as members of their families, regardless of military or civil health insurance, achieve free treatment and priority in the treatment of military medical institutions". Why wouldn't a mother, wife or child of a dead fighter have the right to priority and free treatment at the Military Medical Institute as the most important military medical institution in our country, the best? I'm asking you to keep that in mind, and since you said you didn't have complete records and now you're introducing martial law enforcement, does that mean you're going to introduce IDs for members of the dead fighters, so you have complete records? If you don't have a record, then how can you claim that you don't have the resources in the budget to resolve their demands, applications and how there is money for associations of citizens working contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, and there is no money for fighters? So how is there money for NGOs financed from abroad and still receiving grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget and no money for fighters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72654	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72655	Thank you. Of course I don't agree with the amendment, but what I have to say is obviously there's really a lack of understanding here, or not enough knowledge of what it says in the bill itself. I must stress that Chapter 6 of this Law provides for a unique record of data relating to the fact that there will be a single information system in the Ministry as a database for all fighters, all military people with disabilities, members of their families, and for the first time in fact this unique information system and a single database are being introduced. This shows that the state is responsible and has a responsible relationship with all those who have fought, who have been wounded, who are civilian disabled and all those families of our greats who have fought for the freedom of our country. That's one thing. The second thing, if the yellow robbery company in the image of Gilas, Tadic and Jeremic hadn't robbed Serbia by more than 100 billion euros and had not brought the Republic of Serbia into the state of the political dead, most likely today would have had more money, but Serbia has been obliged since the arrival of the SNS, especially since 2014, and thus has economically recovered, strengthened and available with funds that can now satisfy all the users for which the state has been obliged by the constitution and all other laws to provide funds. Of course, with further economic reinforcement and with the economically stronger Republic of Serbia, which is politics and Alexander Vukic and the Government, better material opportunities will be created for all that the Constitution and the law guarantees to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72656	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. The word has been made by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72657	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you can see through this discussion that there are many conflicting opinions and dilemmas in many members. All of us who served the military, were members of the JNA, took an oath in which we committed to defend that country, even if we lost our lives on that occasion. Many have approached with honor and dignity on the basis of this oath to defend our countries. Some forgot the oath they took and were not worthy. The big problem with us Serbs is that very easily and quickly we forget our famous people, or deserved ones, who fought, and some of them lost their lives in that fight. The aim of this law is to treat these people with Serbia as they deserve it. To be honest, it is not clear to me at all why this amendment exists, which requires that the name "paint fighter" be replaced by the term "dead fighter", because I don't think it matters at all to those fighters, or to all of us who are citizens of Serbia today. I see neither language nor in any other sense that this is so important, but let us solve those things that are important, which are of interest to all those who are covered by this law, and ultimately, for us Serbian citizens who are trying to solve this problem. We must not allow these people who have defended their country with honor and integrity and who have found themselves in the most difficult places to be forgotten. It's nice to be a general and it sounds very nice and I know that many who haven't heard a bullet or been on the battlefield would like to be generals, but it's not easy to be General Delic and when they ask for an army to withdraw, and he says as he likes the real Serb soldier and the real general: "There's no going back, it's Serbia back". And so let us pass this law that will benefit all those people who have honestly and honestly defended Serbia, and that is one bright spot for us in our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72658	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 31, by a new member of 31a, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72659	Thank you very much. The amendment suggests that a foreigner who meets the conditions laid down in Article 5 of this law has the right to claim our citizenship on the basis of his struggle for the interests of the Serbian state. The law did not predict that citizenship was obtained by foreigners who fought for our country and our people. If foreign artists, athletes and even asylum seekers can get our citizenship, it would be logical, and it would be necessary for them to be granted the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in gratitude for their sacrifice, because they fought side by side with our fighters. I suppose the minister, if he has given me the answer at all, will say that this issue is being resolved by another law, but I remind you that if I am not mistaken that we have given citizenship to the Prime Minister of a country who is accused of corruption in its home country. I don't see any reason why we can't give citizenship to those who fought alongside our fighters in defense of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72660	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72661	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. Proposal for a law on the rights of fighters, military disabled war and members of their families. This is a very important law through which the state's relationship with those who created and defended it is viewed. This law is freely said to represent the law of the conscience of a nation and of a state. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia cannot praise things in this area, on the contrary, and this is not only the case with this government, it is also the case with all previous governments, all the way to the government that existed at the time of the Kingdom of Serbia. Our fighters are regularly neglected, forgotten what shouldn't happen. Our country and our entire society never took care of our fighters in all the country wars, and there were plenty of them. It's happening again today. I have a lot of examples from Kosovo, or Kosovo Pomorie, but I will give only one example from the village of Gornja Kusca near Gjilan. Mladic, who was recruited by the name of Aksentije Zubic, as 20 years old, crossed the war goale from Belgrade, Cer, via Albania, the Thessaloniki Front, all under Major Gavrilovic's command, participated in Belgrade's defence. He returns to his home village of Kusca with 23 medals, Russian, French, Serbian and many other decorations. You can imagine such a fighter as he ended up. He died as the poorest, hungry, thirsty, sick, and thus ended his life. He's buried in a town cemetery in Gjilan. Unfortunately, there are many examples like this throughout Serbia. So I appeal to this government and to all future governments that these cases no longer happen or repeat themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72662	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic after the amendment of Filip Stojanovic to Article 32. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72663	This amendment, as proposed, by the SRS, expresses the opinion of practically all fighters. The name of the defender and the motherland was created immediately after the war in 1999 when a group of soldiers who defended the Koraula of Koshara established such a association of defenders and homelands in Chačka. For all these years, here for almost 20 years, this name exists among the fighters, and also regarding this name, the fighters have been consulted since 1990 and beyond. They all think this is an absolutely adequate name for a monument. That's why I can't accept the argument that something called the Boračka Monument is more comprehensive than the names it marks and the period for which that monument is assigned. The law on the traits of the Republic of Serbia, article 11, says the monument is assigned for certain important events in history or of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, whether it is an event that took place in one day or that occurred in one period. We have a period from 1990 to 1999, or even if it is taken south of Serbia, by 2001. We as a country don't have the opportunity to divide it into different periods now and make ten monuments. That is why, under the name we have proposed, it practically implies the whole period, and that is acceptable, because the limits of that period are also specified. When you say "The Battle Monument", and you can assign the gentlemen from the Kosovo Color to today, because it does not meet the condition required by the Law on Detects in Article 11. Secondly, gentlemen, so the state will now, for the first time in any case, allocate significant funds for this monument, and why should these funds, if they are already set out, mean that when they stand out to be absolutely acceptable to everyone? The term “Borca Memorial” is absolutely undefined. If you had written, say, the 1990-1999 Battle Monument, it would have been more acceptable than what you gave, because it marks the period for which this monument is given. Your two arguments are absolutely unacceptable, because if someone had given this from the ruling coalition, it would have been accepted, and because it came from the SRS, I even sometimes think about it because it came and what this proposal might have been mine, because I consulted back these 15-20 years of fighters, that it was also the reason why it wasn't accepted, because this explanation that you gave, it absolutely doesn't drink water. That's what we said about the Keeper's Monument. So, the funds are being allocated. The government's proposal was adequate, good, acceptable and one amendment brought down everything that was done right. And if funds are allocated for that monument, then at least, here I am looking for Mr Milicevic, but he has given amendments, and he has not come to the Assembly these days. I appeal to the gentlemen of the ruling coalition that this amendment, which the Government has accepted, not to vote for it or to be withdrawn by the Socialists, because it is absolutely embarrassing to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72664	Thank you, General Delic. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. (Nedjo Jovanovic: I answered. You called late. Excuse me, sir. Please report in on time next time. You can go on the terms of this amendment now. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. There's a word, according to the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72665	I thank you, Chairman. The Socialist Party of Serbia has no reason to withdraw an amendment that has been accepted and has become an integral part of the bill. This amendment has done nothing to deepen anything that involves raising tensions, which implies disagreements over certain historical facts, which means anything that will deepen the gap between certain ideologies. The amendment has just done the opposite, quite the opposite, and that implies the affirmation of something that was long ago achieved, which is the reconciliation of ideology in the sense that there is only one movement, and that is the antifascist movement, to which those who fought Fascism belonged, regardless of their ideological determination. The Socialist Party of Serbia will never give up the cultivation of the fluids of the people's liberation struggle, the Partizan movement and victory over fascism. History has shown. Historical facts inevitably confirm that in 1945, the collapse of fascism emerged as a product of the great heroic struggle of folk-free movement across Europe, including the world, where partisan movements preceded. We have long ago, and right in this House, put an end to anything that involves disagreements, raising tensions and confrontations. We will not give up what we consider to be very important for the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia from here should hear our message that this amendment does not in any case create divisions among Serbian citizens, that in any case they are not affirming ideologies that will represent the ideologies of conflict. On the contrary, it is the only motive that was the motive of submitting amendments, that through the anti-fascist struggle, everything that is important is declared, and the important thing is that this struggle was a struggle of free spirit, free movement, and that struggle is, thank God, and has experienced an epilogue that makes us live in peace today, which is why we today enjoy the fruits of everything that was previously acquired. Today, however, the tones that we do not need appear again. So on behalf of the SPS, I categorically point out that there's no need to develop disagreements, to develop something that we've long buried, we don't need to re-excavate it. We have our own ideologies, we have our own programs, we have our own political path to go, but in one we have to be completely agreeable. It's the only such amendment that has raised the quality of the law that we've given an accent to something that's most important and what's been going on between 1941 and 1945, and that's the anti-fascist struggle against the occupiers, against fascism, and ultimately, the collapse of fascism. I don't mind, and on behalf of the SPS, I will always point out the fact -- today everyone has the right to affirm their ideology. Everyone has the right to call on historical events. Everyone has the right to mark these historical events to be kept from oblivion, to prevent the distortion of history, to prevent the relativization of history. But we all have one single obligation to keep from the historic forgetfulness of the struggle, the people's liberating struggle against the fascist occupier and the failure of the fascist occupier thanks to this struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72666	Thank you. This is Bozidar Delic. Do you want a replica, General Delic? (Božidar Delic: Yes. You, Mr. Sarovic, don't have a chance. Only by amendment can you. The word is General Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72667	What we're talking about absolutely doesn't put an end to division. I thought those divisions were over, but if you're looking at this law, even three members are talking about that reconciliation is formal, even when it comes to members of the Montenegrin movement. The government's proposal was absolutely adequate, excellent, acceptable. What was it that bothered those who were heritage in their ideology and who continued the traditions of that other movement? What is indisputable is that both movements were anti-fascist and that the jubilee medals are being shared today, then that would be appropriate. But if one of the members was already right after World War II, when these others were persecuted and harassed and granted the right to a Partizan monument of 41-45, why are these others, who, for the last 15, 20 years, who are in the laws that have been passed in this assembly completely equalized, are not given such an opportunity? Why is a single amendment corrupting what the Government has suggested should be done in this law? Why is this, after all, not in the principle debate here discussed, but suddenly the amendment that was adopted comes and is put here yesterday before us? And since this has already been given in three members, there is one next member, where a commission will be formed, consisting of three members of SUBNOR and four members elected by the Assembly. All such commissions so far have absolutely been and have brought down what this Assembly has brought here, and that is the equality of the members of these two movements. None of the members of the Montenegrin movement have been able to exercise any of their rights, as the members of the SULNOR were on the other side and were always against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72668	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72669	General Delic is right. General Delic is right. And if someone has the right in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to submit amendments on behalf of the unity of our country, etc., what explanation we have heard from an esteemed colleague, then we too have the right to disagree with such a way of understanding of what happened in World War II, that on behalf of a single Serbia we also say something, we state our opinion. Let me tell you something, I'm a little sick of it that from 1945 to 2020, we who belong to the families of those who gave their lives, and then paid a harsh penalty from the communist regime for participating in World War II and fighting for Serbia's freedom and freeing Serbia from fascism, that we keep silent, that we keep coming into a situation that we can't say anything about Serbia's unity, so this time and because of the unity of the coalition and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Whether or not I will vote in favour of the law, I am political enough to be aware of the government's proposals, when you're in the ruling coalition, and I said my intimate thinking yesterday in the discussion, and I'm going to say now, this is not correct and it's not fair. It is not correct and it is not fair because of half of Serbia, let's say half of Serbia, which took part in World War II for the freedom of this country. Don't say our ancestors were fascists. Please don't cross that line. Who and when he wrote history that only communists have defended this country, we all know that, because winners always write history. It is not true that the fighters in the army of Draža Mihailovic were fascists. That's not true, and I will never accept that truth. It is therefore not correct that these amendments have appeared to the text and the proposal for the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the RES, because it is not a desire not to dig old wounds, but rather to talk about it again in 2020, we are again dividing Serbia into one and the other. My people, it was a Serb civil war against Serbs in one piece. We all fought the Germans together, but we were pushed into civil war. In 2020, again, someone wants us to talk about whether only the communists won or were on the right side people who fought in the royal army in the country, led by General Draža Mihailovic. I say they are. Are the crimes committed? They did. They were also made by communists. And the communists killed Serbs. And then, and 1945, and 1946, and 1947, etc., etc., and that's true. That's true. (Alexander Martinovic: Stay, stay.) That's right, that's right. Everybody stay. Everybody stay, because what I'm saying is because of Serbia's unity in 2020. I didn't even dream of someone who was 30 or something, or the boss of his party, if you'd like to submit the amendments, we can't agree to this. Seventy-five years later, on behalf of Serbia's unity, someone cannot agree that other people who were not communists were giving their lives to Serbia. Yes, they did. They didn't help the Germans, they weren't fascists. Most of them, 90 percent, are unjustly convicted. Some fled to America, some fled to Canada, some to Europe. The most naive ones stayed because they believed there was going to be some kind of vote, and that vote ended by going to prison, because they were supporters of the movement, and it doesn't even say they were involved in a war. I'll give you the verdict. The supporters of Draža Mihailovic's movement, so they didn't want communism in this country. Now, if it were 1941, I would be a supporter of Draža Mihailovic's movement, I wouldn't be fighting for communist ideas. I wouldn't. I've just never accepted the ideas of communism until I was 56, 57 years old. What do we do now? Kill me? To make me change my mind? To make me go to camps? To condemn me as it used to be after World War II. I have to say it, because we are just discussing it now and we are constantly discussing whether Serbia was on the other side and on the other side. Since this House has never been led, and then some colleagues get angry, and then they come out, and they won't attend, it's a very sensitive topic. Why don't we ever talk about what happened in certain parts of Serbia and where the people belonged then? Why does only the SNS have to have this awareness that we're doing something good for Serbia and that we finally need to stop talking about these ideological divisions in the '40s? Why can't SDPS talk about it? Can we talk about the handiwork of the division? We can't, I guess. That's enough. In 2020, it was enough for Serbs to have to put their heads down again and that Serbs must again say that only one ideology is the winner of everything. Seventy-five years we've been listening to that. I really can't take it anymore. This has nothing to do with my party's attitudes. I'm fenced if I'm going to do anyone any harm, but for 75 years we really have to watch shows that celebrate further communist ideology and movement. Yes, I was just hoping that when a series came along, when under pressure, twisted into a mockery, some royal army fighters went again and killed in Serbian villages, it wasn't, but, according to Bulajic's recipe. These others were some army that had never killed anyone, that had never done wrong, that never raped anyone. That's not true. I have a deep dilemma about 2020, and I'm not the only one. Ask colleagues in the province government who belong to this way of thinking, ask some of these benches. I know family members, who are SDS MPs, who were on this, I'll tell you, the right side because I'm not ashamed of it. Shormaz thinks so too, and many think so, but they can't say. That's not popular 75 years later. They can't defend their grandfathers, they can't defend their definition. My Dobrivoje did not escape to America, although Vuckovic called and said we were sold by the English, come on, because he believed in Serbia. He stayed here. As judge of the court council, the butcher condemned him to be a supporter of Draža Mihailovic's movement and saved two women from already arrested Chetniks, which the communist authorities wrote were bandits, two women, peasants from the village, who were asked to sleep over and hide from them, from the communist Zulu and from the civil war that took place in World War II and even worse after the end of the NoB, even worse, where Serbs were killed, where the civil layer of this country died. If we're going to talk about history all the time, about the revision of history, here's your history review, what it looked like in 1945 until, unfortunately, today, and it's still teaching kids in schools, that's not true. Thank God the education system, compared to the family values I've been listening to, in my case, has failed to do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72670	Thank you. My colleague Sarovic, on what grounds? (I Nemanja Sarovic: I answered first of all. I can't hear you, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72671	I say I've come forward on a number of grounds, but for some unknown reason, I'm being skipped by Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72672	Have you checked in with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72673	And by the Rules of Procedure, and by the amendment, both.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72674	You know you can't do each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72675	Of course I can. I answered the amendment first, but Mr. Marinkovic gives to others who weren't even in the O.R. when I answered, and now I've reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72676	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72677	If you could just get the time back to square one, Mr. Arsic. Control those who earn. Looks like this pre-election anxiety caught them, and they still don't know where they're gonna be. So, Mr. Arsic, two members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. A member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured because the chairman is obliged to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and is obliged to give his word to the MPs in accordance with the order of communication. I have not yet experienced the presidency putting on headphones, because it is unable to appease the ruling coalition MPs who are receiving persistently. Let's calm them down. Better than putting them on, it's a shame to put on headphones, Mr. Arsic. I'd keep going when the conditions come to pass. If you're putting on headphones because you don't hear from the noise your MPs are making, then there's no conditions. I didn't hear you. You can't hear anything. Say it again. (President: Continue your colleague, Sarovic.) Give me conditions to continue, Mr. Arsic. Secondly, Mr Marinkovic was obliged to warn Nedja Jovanovic if he says things contrary to the laws adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We can have free confidence and differing opinions about the law we are now discussing. If the Assembly passed a law a long time ago equating members of the Partizan and Equality Movement, then it is an insult to the National Assembly's dignity to say that there is only one anti-fascist movement or that it may have meant the movement of the Montenegrin Draža Mihailovic, which would mean that the communist movement was not anti-fascist. But it's certainly a violation of dignity. This is not about someone having a problem with the breakdown of fascism, but about Nedo Jovanovic not being able to accept the breakdown of communism. He still lives in those times. Please give me your word on the amendment as I have answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72678	I'm asking the department not to count the time that belongs to the SRS for over two minutes. I really can't help you with the order and on the matter of showing my colleagues Jovanovic. If you feel that the National Assembly should plead to harm the Rules of Procedure, please tell me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72679	I think you should, and I'm asking for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72680	Under the amendment, you will have to wait because a colleague, Jovanovic, asked for the right to replication. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic Then counterpart Sarovic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72681	Thank you. First of all, in what time Nedjo Jovanovic lives, it is the right of Neđa Jovanovic. As far as attitudes are concerned, we're digging up something we buried here, something we no longer need to mention, and I'm sorry that the president of the Serbian Parliament has left this room, and I know that she had to and that she has obligations, and that's perfectly clear to me. The amendment submitted by the SPS, signed by Djordje Milicevic, does not undermine anyone's ideology. On the contrary, it's not an attack on ideology, it's another call for reconciliation. The anti-fascist implies that anti-fascists are all those who fought the occupiers, and the only occupier was then Hitler's machine and all that was with Hitler was added to occupy Serbia and oppress the people in Serbia. In no case have we tried any amendment or derivated anyone's rights. This amendment does not endanger the rights of the eunuchs, only termologically determine anti-fascist monuments and nothing more. If the eunuchs think they're not anti-fascists, that's their problem. I'm sure the Partisans are anti-fascists, and I don't want in any way to diminish anyone's value in the anti-fascist fight anyone who participated in the anti-fascist struggle. But the communist movement and the Partisan movement is and we're not ashamed of it. It's our fluids. I also respect the liquids of all those who cherish them, the heritage, have their own ideology, but let's not dig up and not hunt down history, let's not dig up war axes, because this isn't the place. It's not our amendment, it's not embarrassing, it's not incorrect, it's not rude. Our amendment is the opposite of that. And a peaceful, affirmative and something that implies the value and the fluid of a folk-free fight, which is an anti-fascist movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72682	Thank you. The People's Messenger Borisav Kovacevic has the word, then Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72683	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, without wanting to enter into what was said on this subject. I want to point out something that we need to take care of. You can't talk about this kind of sensitive subject in this tone and the way it is, for example, the president of the assembly said it, even though I can stand behind everything she's said in substance, but it can't react in that way. It's a way to cause bile and create a quarreling tone in which you can't speak calmly and correctly. So I appeal and beg everyone who further discusses taking care of it. You can't discuss this subject and criticise others that he thinks he's the only one who's right, while containing what we're saying we're giving ourselves the right to be the only one who's right, not the other. Let's talk a little bit colder about it, if we need to talk about it today, because this is not a topic. And this amendment, I am deeply convinced, doesn't call for this debate with a tone like this and in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72684	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go. Then Bozidar Delic, then Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72685	By amendment. I could be here right now to heat up on this controversy between members of the ruling coalition not only in the controversy, but in all the words that have been exchanged and to say, here's what the coalition is, what style it is, only the government has united you, you don't have any touch points or anything like that. And honestly, if it were another topic, I'd probably do it, but given this subject, and I agree with most of the debaters in the last one, I can't because it's sad that we're actually sharing. That's where I agree with most of the people who discussed it. So it's not good, not because of 70 or how many years it's been, but it's not good because of the present, and of course because of these victims, both on the one hand and on the other, that with this much passion and evil will, we're discussing something that we shouldn't share. Just like the baby law, just like the issue of territorial integrity and sovereignty, just like Tijana's law and in some other cases. Whether it's near or far, it's clearly targeting some emotional wires. There wouldn't be this kind of discussion and this kind of debate and this kind of bile and passion that doesn't get someone intimately tangled. I don't want to believe and believe that it's just a pre-election campaign and marketing, so that one part of the ruling coalition goes to the descendants or those sympathisers of the Partisans, and the other part to the supporters of the Montenegrin movement. I believe that also the presentation of President Gojkovic and all other debates, I believe they spoke very sincerely and intimately. We could learn at least one or two lessons from that. One is that when we were on the right side of history and paid for what we were on the right side of history, we should not now retroactively help opponents and those who were on the wrong side of history and give them ammunition and give them, in a way, tools and instruments to trouble our bright and positive role, our ancestors for which we do not deserve. We don't have any merit here, but our ancestors had both. And in his passions and in his exaggerations and in his delusions. I think it was the idea and intensity of that law that was mentioned here many times, that evened out members of both anti-fascist movements. Different, imperfect, I say, with exaggerations, with crimes on one side or the other, historians should judge the details, let historians give the picture and specify it, but in general, it is clear that it is true, that these were two anti-fascist movements interdepended, but certainly opposed, each individually, more opposed than most other movements of other peoples, not only in the Balkans, but also in Europe, that they fought against evil, fascism and Nazism. So, I'm saying, it's not good for our... Whether the amendment caused it or not, I have no idea. It was a cause, but I'm saying, let's not now let passion cast a shadow on that, yet unquestionably, blind page of our common history. The last, second recommendation and advice, but shorter – we make sure that this passion and this hatred that has escalated and ended, of course, the brother-killing conflict between our ancestors does not result in anything similar, God forbid, when it comes to the present. In words, in the bile, in the poison, in the hate that is heard and heard on this relationship of power and opposition there is something of that exaggeration, there is something that can, God forbid, to trigger memories, even associations, and hopefully not more, at that time of evil and that time of death. So, even in today's current discussions and discussions, either your inter-coalitional or this positional-oppositional, regardless of the differences you should not run from and hide them from, I simply urge you not to cross any lines, that you do not cross some lines after which it is not easy to go back and after which a match can easily start a dangerous fire. It was my suggestion, and you proceed, therefore, away with this path you've taken, but just don't, I'm saying, whether it's pre-election marketing or not, anyway, but just don't indirectly, unconsciously, accidentally throw a shadow of doubt at, I say, yet impeccable general orientation of our ancestors during World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72686	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72687	Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic explained everything great and gave a good speech, and I will not agree with some colleagues who criticise her, and said how to behave during this period. I can even say that I am a little pleased with this amendment, because for the first time since 1945 those who rule Serbia from 1945 to today through a different aggregate state or participate in the government recognize the anti-fascist character of the Yugoslav army in the country and the movement commanded by Draža Mihajlovic, who respected the government in exile and King Peter. But I'm like a righteous man who's interested in the truth, and there's only one thing I want to add to everything that's been said. Besides, that's why I'm not happy that this amendment was adopted, because there's a difference between those two anti-fascist movements. The difference is that those who led the Partisan movement were taught and trained in Moscow. That's what Russian historians say today. They write about it, and they say they are trained that a socialist revolution can be carried out through civil war. You have cases for this. The revolution itself in Russia, China, Vietnam, Cuba, as many examples as you want, an attempt in Spain, etc. So those who fought the anti-fascist fight, and they called themselves communists and partisans, caused civil war, because they were taught to challenge civil war so that they could come into a situation to rule the state. They did this because by dividing 1945 and entering Soviet tanks, they were allowed to do so, not because the people supported them and not because they had most people in Yugoslavia, and especially not among Serbs on their side. That's the only truth. Now we can talk as much as we want. Unfortunately, an anti-fascist movement, in addition to fighting fascists, also led a civil war in the country to come to power, and another anti-fascist movement, Ravnogorski, the Yugoslav Army in the country, in addition to fighting fascists, fought against communists, because it wanted a modern, European, democratic, parliamentary Kingdom of Yugoslavia. There's a big difference between the two countries and such countries and that's the only truth. That difference must always be known, and if we need unity, it's not disputed. So you have to know who's who and who's what.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72688	The word has been submitted to the amendment, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72689	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must agree in one part of the discussion and with Mr. Shormaz, but also in one small part and with Mr. Vukadinović... The People's Messenger throws it away. And with you among other things, except for this last one. So I think it's a misread amendment and amendments that have been submitted. The amendment goes exactly in the direction of unity, rather than redistribution in Serbia to partisans and Chetniks. The opposition doesn't need one part of the opposition to worry about the future of the coalition, because we may not agree on the past, but it doesn't matter today in 2020. We agree on what is important today, and these are the programme objectives and principles of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a policy led by the President of the Republic and successfully realised and whose results are visible and recognizable. That's the most important thing for us right now, and we need to be focused on the future. The results of what we've achieved, so let the citizens evaluate whether we've done well or not on April 26th, that I don't talk too much about it so this isn't as political marketing as someone here has said. Now, what do we agree on? Our ancestors did have credit, and we want to affirm these merits right now through the amendments that we have submitted, which the Government, which I personally have submitted, and which the government has accepted. We don't run away from it. The historians, I agree, should judge the details. Time will show, the time ahead will show who is and who was wrong and what role he played in the previous period of time and what place he deserves. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the past that we will not be able to erase, but from the past, I mean, about the past, you can't live from the past. From the past, we need to affirm what was good, to learn lessons from what was not good, but to look at the present and the future. That's what this ruling coalition does, and don't worry about it. Also, this past cannot be our only present and cannot be our future. I am the one who is 30 years old and who has submitted these amendments, you can define them however, who, as someone has said, has entered a revision and wants to enter a history review, which is not true, although what I did is both principled and just and just, because we believe that the Serbian people deserve the truth and that's what we talked about with Mr. Minister, he can confirm if I'm saying something wrong, and if it's all true, then I am proud of these amendments that I have submitted and that the government has accepted. They are not the positions of the SPS political marketing and what we want today to affirm right before the parliamentary elections, they are long known, and we have voted against the law on equalising the Chetniks and partisans, but that law has been passed. We voted against him. It's a fact, it's a fact, and we accept it. This law, Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, the first intensities have to solve the questions of combatants from the 1990s, and we fully support it and we've talked about it, not to open new issues from the past. We talked to all the fighters' associations, after the talks they had with you, were also at the SPS Parliament Club and talked to us and representatives of the fighting associations said that the amendments that we formulated were better and that they defined some things more precisely than the original legislative proposal. Correct me if I'm wrong. We're all the same, regardless of the political attitudes we have. That is what was said in this National Assembly in front of one of the sessions where we discussed the law that was filed by the distinguished colleague Gordana Komic. We voted in favour of this law, no matter what comes from the opposition's ranks, because it is one step, when we talk about electoral legislation. Allow me, if we're all the same, then we have a legitimate right to submit amendments. We are, and we are not running away from it, proud heirs to an idea that knew that it was bleeding for Serbia's equality and justice, we are not contesting that right to the other, and I think that we are a party that has, at least when it comes to roots, a deep foundation in ideology and rooted in Serbia's political scene. You know, a friend of mine from Montenegro, a great friend, who is an MP in the parliament of Montenegro, once said, when they were under pressure from the Montenegrin government, not to say the regime of Milo Djukanovic, who leads an anti-Serbian policy, that there are those who would rather go headless than faceless and that when injustice becomes law, then we need to and we need to find a way to fight it. I don't see a different way, except for the debate in the Assembly and other than the amendments we've submitted. Why separate the anti-fascist struggle? One is a country, a single struggle. I don't think we need any new divisions in the company of partisans and Chetniks in 2020, and for that reason we have submitted such amendments and amendments. What is the objective of these amendments? Preserving a liberating tradition as one. Are we one people or aren't we? Are we one country or not? People who have shown themselves and proved themselves anti-fascists certainly deserve everything defined by this law. Who's going to determine that? That's not what we're gonna do. That's what time wants, but it will, Mr. Minister, and the commission that's supposed to be formed by this law, correct me if I'm wrong, and that commission will be made by representatives of all fighting associations. So, we will not define who deserves it or not, but we are creating these amendments to be partisans and members of those who fought on the part of the Partisans and members of those who fought on the side of the Ravnogore movement, because not all partisans were Partisans, but not all Chetniks were Chetniks, as there are those who participated in the anti-fascist struggle, the teacher who defended the students, who fired a bullet at fascists, and he was not on the side of either Chetnik or Partisans, and so sorry, he deserves to be a fighter and to get the privileges provided for by this legal proposal. In terms of international policy, we believe that as originally predicted, there is a revisionism and that is a revision of history. History can't escape, and we don't want to run away from it, but I repeat, with this amendment, we didn't want to cause division, we wanted to put an end to division, and that time and people who need to do it, and you've defined who is doing this legal proposal, they're doing it in the period ahead of us. I'm sorry these amendments were misread, because the goal was different. The goal was to prevent the division and unity of the Serb people. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72690	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72691	Thank you. I didn't think we'd spend this much time on these amendments, but it's just been said here that someone's digging up and someone else is burying divisions. Mr. Minister should come forward, because the bill was absolutely acceptable to us. We here in this law wanted for the first time, as the Government suggested, to repay the members of the Ravnog movement and this is what the government proposed absolutely rightly. I would have also rebelled if anyone had touched or tried to touch, but that monument has existed for many years. Partisan monument 1941-1945. What was proposed by this amendment is absolutely inadequate, because the Assembly and some other councils long before us had passed a legal provision that made these two movements even and the way the government suggested that this recognition that this movement was absolutely adequate. But the amendments that followed that change are inadequate, and when they connect to Article 118(2) and Article 125(3), then we can think about it, bad intentions, and we have pointed out our amendments to both members. In one article we suggested how to correct it, and this other member we suggested to delete, because now that you put all of that together, the proposed amendment, these two members with these views, then you see that it's the reconciliation that's being talked about and that equality absolutely farce. When I spoke with members of the Association of Military Military Disabilities and we talked about whether any of the eunuchs had achieved their right, they smiled and said – nobody can ever exercise that right, because in the commission there are members of SUBNOR, the eyes want to take out when they mention the eunuchs. And we now have another commission that needs to decide other things, and they are members of SuBNOR again. Our proposal was – so let them not be and the question is how many of them are alive or alive. If it is being debated about the Montenegrins, it should then be in the commission of the Egagorites and those chosen by the Assembly. In order to overcome the problem, we have proposed, with our amendment, that all seven members of that commission should be elected by the Assembly on the basis of a proposal from the parliamentary groups. I think that was acceptable. And that many years after the war, if people had suffered sanctions, let's just say three years before these unfortunate 1990 wars, I should have come to the Guard Brigade. So that was a settled question and there was a security check. A few months later, I was told that this place was filled and I was offered second place at the military academy. Everything was fine. When the war started I meet a security guard, who says, you know why you didn't come to the guard? Well, I'm saying it was a filled place. No, your uncles were Chetniks. My father was a minor and didn't participate in the war, but my uncles were Chetniks, except for one who escaped from Italian captivity and who was with Italian partisans. So that's what the '80s were all about. Just before the war, when you're doing it, it means in the army, but when the wars started, and then nobody asked if your uncles were brushes, even in Croatia, there was little talk about it. In Republika Srpska at all, but I don't want to count ourselves now, but in all these wars there were many more members, i.e. descendants of the Ravnogore movement, because those others who moved to Belgrade, took positions, etc., their sons, their descendants no longer experienced their birthplace the same way we experienced it. That's why I think the minister is supposed to cut this off and he should have called, not just listened, because the minister came here with the bill that we agreed on, at least on this matter. He was, after all, where the debate was being held, and after all this applause that came from this side, at the discussion of our President of the Assembly, I should just conclude that this amendment will not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72692	The amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic to article 33. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72693	Thank you, Vice President. The proposed amendment requires that the basis for determining monetary income, under this law, be not a minimum pension, which is a demeaning amount, but rather the amount of the average monthly income, without taxes and contributions, in the Republic of Serbia, for a month that is two months preceding the month in which the law is exercised. Namely, receiving fighters, based on national recognition, a combat supplement and an increased combat supplement, should be tied to an average salary that changes at monthly level and better monitors the rise in cost of life than the minimum pension, which is determined by the rule of one year. In such a way, it would be ensured that not at the beginning of the year, receiving on the basis of a fighting allowance would be symbolic, and before the end of the year, in the event of possible inflation and cost increases, it would fall to a miserable amount. In essence, this proposed amendment of Article 33 is deconceived unless amendments to Articles 86 and 87, which I have proposed to the amendments and which I will explain later, and I ask that these three amendments be interrelated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72694	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72695	Thank you. With this amendment, military invalids from the first to the seventh groups and children users of the family disability, exercise the right to a child's allowance, in accordance with the Regulation on the child's addition of the military disabled and children of the family disabled users, which brings the competent minister of martial law. It is that under the current law, no military disability in Serbia will practically be able to obtain a child's supplement, since it is impossible to obtain it, under the conditions laid down in the rules on financial support for the family with children, because these regulations are intended for children's supplement, to receive a social character, i.e. that households should have very low incomes, in order to achieve this right, and all additions based on martial protection, and members of their families, should have status of national recognition, not social giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72696	Thank you. The 64th Amendment was filed by Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72697	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we intervened on Article 64. Proposal for a law relating to the Banja-Climate recovery. In fact, we have suggested that, in addition to the military disabled and civilian disabled wars and fighters, a banj-climate recovery is made possible. We all know that fighters who have certain health problems should have the opportunity to do so, but also the advantage of referring to a Banja-climate recovery compared to family disability users. The explanation you gave for why the amendment is rejected, you say, that it is rejected for the reasons that military people with disabilities, civil persons in war and the users of a family disability need to provide a Banja-climate recovery, so we ask you whether it means that fighters who suffer from the same diseases as military and civilian disabled and the users of the family disabled do not need recovery and rehabilitation. Then, you say the billmaker also had in mind the financial effects of this provision as well as the need to provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is clear that the budget provides funds for recovery but that does not mean that fighters should be excluded and denied this possibility. The medical committees, which determine on the basis of medical documentation, who needs recovery and rehabilitation, and in order to give the combatants the opportunity to recover, should not identify new funds in the budget, but in the context of existing findings, and a list should be drawn up on which the fighters will also be found. The explanation as you gave, it just shows your relationship with the fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72698	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the President of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, Mr. Nedjeljko Cubrilovic with members of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Dear Members, let me inform you this delegation is taking part today in the work of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska's Commission for Co-operation and is monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of our great hall. Thank you for welcoming them, and now we're continuing the debate. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72699	First, I would like to join in and welcome the members and president of the Republika Srpska Assembly and say that it may not be by any chance that it is right now at the moment when this law is on the agenda that there are members of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you for coming and visiting this home, ours and welcome. And let me answer you, certainly when it comes to this member and how we've taken care of all the fighters and any fighter who has, to say any disability and any problem it belongs to the one from the most difficult to the easiest category of disability, that is, that category of military people with disabilities, and certainly belongs to his rights under this law. A fighter is considered to be anyone who participated in the war, so that category belongs to fighters who didn't have absolutely any, to say the consequence of that war. And they exercise all their rights under each other's laws, the Health Protection Act, and none of their rights have been denied. And again, I return to the fact that this law is unique because this term "fighter" has so far been unrecognizable and in previous laws there has been no such thing. This government, this is the first time the Ministry has brought and brought, suggests to you a law in which we wish exactly and because of the gray ones who fought for our country and because of all don't give God who will fight for our country to have this status as "fighter". And that's what I'm supposed to do, and what I might be obliged to say, I don't have the exact number of those who are listed as fighters from 1st to 3rd category of fighters, and right now there are those who are numbering 114 thousand, and they're proven to be the right to double internship, and that's why we categorize them as being fighters from 1st to 3rd category. Those who are certainly 1st category, these are wartime military disableds. There are 8,500 of them, we're missing the total number, and he'll probably show up, and that's the advantage of this law that's going to be passed. The registry and the government's obligation is to make that register, and that's the first time we're going to know how many total fighters we have and a total of 1st and 2nd and 3rd categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72700	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 78th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72701	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we who cannot reconcile dead ancestors and do not want to fight living descendants, we do not think that there are monthly incomes that can be paid for someone's health, someone's lost extremity and someone's lost life. Wars aren't fair, but everyone's supposed to go to righteous wars. There's an old saying, that wars wouldn't exist, only if a war winner paid war damage. Then perhaps wars would be avoided. We have this evil fate that our newest so-called. A generation of disabled, and it's created by correcting other people's mistakes. From 1918, 1928 in Dresden, to 1974, and that unfortunate constitution. Many things had to be "tried", disabled and combatants, dead fighters due to mistakes, which made politicians far before them. Since there are people here from Republika Srpska, my obligation as someone whose fathers and grandfathers came from there, is to say that Republika Srpska is not genocide, it has never been, nor will it be, that Serbs from Republika Srpska have freed themselves and others, that those others who accuse them are far away, have acted differently compared to them, and regardless of two wars, the experiences of Serbs from Republika Srpska have always given their hands to their neighbours. That the neighbours reject the hand, wanting Serbs in Republika Srpska to call it genocide, is not up to the Serbs, but to them. The fighters, across the former Yugoslavia, which unfortunately was the mention of the Serb people's skeleton, is a message. People die, people are mortal, people die, but the glory of freedom fighters never dies.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72702	The 86th Amendment was submitted by professors. Shevarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72703	I have, explaining the previous amendment, said it is absurd that if it is not accepted, to explain amendments 86 and 87, since they are interlinked, and based on the fact that compensation to fighters and other users of the rights under this law should not be social aid, but material recognitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72704	The 86th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment of the SRS to the Bill on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families, refers to Article 86(1). The bill, where we have asked that number 60, be replaced by 50, with the reason that the fighters of Article 7 of this Act, who have been recognised as a fighter, have been classified in the categories of fighters, who meet all the conditions set out in points 1 to 10 of this article, and should be able to begin to achieve this right with 50 years of life completed. As we can see, the said member prescribes the right of combatants to supplement and immediately say that this is a new right that belongs to every fighter who has established the status of a fighter under this law. We of the SRS have reason to believe that this right should belong to a 50-year-old fighter, and perhaps it is better that there is no limit, Mr. Minister, to the years of life, if he and the members of his family's rope, who live in the household, do not make the tax on those incomes. This amount of rights shall be determined by the corresponding percentage amount of the minimum amount of pension in the insurance of employees for the month, which shall precede the month in which the right is exercised depending on the category in which the fighter belongs, to which it is classified. The Serbian Radical Party believes this is a better solution and that it is absolutely acceptable and that the state should show more empathy for all those who fought and bled for it. So the state needs to protect the rights and interests of the fighters, not the ones who steal it and rob it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72706	Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 86th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72707	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 86. Proposal for a law on rights of fighters, military invalids, civilian disabled war and members of their families. Article 86 refers to a martial law, item 1 point 7 is defined that a fighter from Article 7 of this Act who is recognised as a fighter, who has been classified as a fighter, has the right to a martial law, if he is older than 60 years of life and if he, or a member of his family, who lives in a joint household does not exercise the right to ownership or to enjoy on agricultural land, has an area of more than five hectares. We of the SRS parliamentary group have proposed by amendment that this criterion relating to ownership, or the fruiting of agricultural land be doubled to ten hectares. We believe that such an amendment is fairer, and at the same time this solution is in accordance with Article 76 paragraph 1 of point 8. by the legislator of this law. We don't see any reason why these two members of the law are different. The proposal believes that the adoption of this law will affirm the lasting value of fighting for the defence, independence and sovereignty and constitutional order of the country. Many citizens of the Republic of Serbia with patriotic pride defended the Serbian country when the country called. In defence of Kosovo and Metohija, many fighters from Leskovec and Jablanic district participated, and many of them went badly. We are all present here as witnesses, and the promoter also explains that the present giving of the material and social position of this category of users shows that there are many problems and needs for enhanced protection of individual users from these users. If the government intends to improve the position of these people to some extent, it should accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72708	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic to article 86. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72709	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The essence of my amendment is contained in the fact that the right to achieve a combat supplement cannot be replaced by material support in the form of social assistance and other rights under social protection rules. A combat supplement is assigned to that category of person instead of the intended social benefits if it is more favourable for a fighter. I immediately want the serious state to have a serious relationship with the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil invalids, and members of their families and to protect the rights of those who have bled for it. Many of us through history have sinned against the fighters, against those who have lost parts of their bodies, eyes, arms, or feet, but even after the wars, we forget very quickly as if they were never there. It was said here in the National Assembly that Serbian peasants were very happy when in World War II they sacrificed themselves to save American pilots across the plain mountain, Prajan and Kostunica. And right away, as a man of Orthodox and humanism, I don't mind but I would be much happier if with all due respect and honor we had shown the greatest Serbian hero in the First World War, Milunka Savik, who was otherwise the bearer of the French Legion of Honor, the greatest medal, not that she died in the greatest misery and poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72710	The amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic to article 87. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72711	Thank you. And with this amendment, we want to encourage the government to fight, but only fighters over 60 years old, have a special fighting supplement in view of all the horrors of the acts of war that they have survived and that they do not come down to social aid recipients. Since there is no complete record of the number of fighters and other users of material receipts under this law, I hope that some other sum, or the next convocation, will make amendments to these amendments, which are now not accepted by the government and the assembly majority, as they did not accept even when we discussed the War Memorial Act. When I suggested that the concept of concentration camp be defined as a special provision in Article 2 of that law, it was rejected. It was said then, at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and also here in the assembly debate, that it represents other places of death and that there is no need in particular to highlight concentration camps. And at the last session, we passed the War Memorial Act across the other side of the Sava coast, which was declared a concentration camp even though it was not defined as a special category in the markings of war memorials. I hope we realize that I did say some things in time after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72712	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72713	Thank you. Mr. Chevarlitch, we understood everything you said in time. It's all nice and sweet-talking. I've been waiting for this last amendment of yours to tell you what the real truth is, and so should the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You're looking for both the previous members of 86th and here the increase, allegedly the increase and care of the fighters. What's it look like now? For the first category, you are asking for 12% of the average salary in the Republic of Serbia without taxes and contributions, so you are looking for 6.500,00 dinars; for the second 10% - 5.500,00 dinars; for the third 8% - 4.500,00 dinars. The real truth is that this law gives them: first category – 14.500,00; second – 12.000,00; and third – 9.000,00. Now in this second one, you double it all, so it's still less than the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives with this new law. There, so much worry on your part about fighters, which looks so nice. And we understand very well what you said, and in order for us not to be wrong, we have just suggested that there be greater compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72714	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72715	I conveyed the attitudes of those who protest. If they're wrong, then I'm wrong and I accept that. But, at the same time, the fact that the public service until three days ago, until we started discussing this bill never once came forward with the information that the protest of fighters and war veterans explicitly tells us what kind of relationship we had with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72716	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 90th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72717	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment relating to the right of certain categories of military invalids every seven years to purchase a motor vehicle is to simplify the procedure itself. It's not a lot of people. Mr. Secretary probably knows. I don't think there are more than 100 in the Republic of Serbia. They're the hardest disabled in the war. When I read the explanation, exactly what I fear is given in reason. He says: “A medical committee is needed to determine whether there has been a change in health. ” People, it's done to those who don't have hands, they don't have legs. They won't grow up with their hands or legs. They can, eventually, once come and make that request to see that they are alive, but everything else is completely unnecessary and represents the harassment of these people, especially if they need to come several times, which is actually happening. We wanted this amendment to avoid it, because establishing their health status can only be a setting up because they are the most difficult war people who may have about 100 in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72718	Thank you. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72719	And this and all of our amendments are actually an attempt to regulate the rights of fighters through this law in the way General Delic proposed by his law, the bill of law two years ago. Of course, you don't accept these amendments and you just show hypocrisy and duality when it comes to this subject. A little while ago, many, or all of you, applauded after some debate, and when we want through the amendment to show that we should really, without applause, help the fighters, then you don't accept the amendments. It's those double arches, and through the debate half an hour ago, we actually saw something else. There are us here, I don't mean just among Serbian radicals, I mean the entire assembly hall, which we've never written anything under nationality in any form but a Serb, and we've always said loudly that we're Serbs. It is good that today, somehow, a little bit of that plug has been detached, so some of whom were once so ugly, too, are loudly saying that they are Serbs. It is good for us to discuss both fighters and country wars in this way. It was kind of a taboo topic, but it would be even better if you really accepted these amendments and that these people who have been protesting for several months and those who don't protest, but who have a hard time living, that, thanks to this law, come to the level of life of a decent man. They deserve it. We all deserve... Today we saw how wrong history we were learning, and the one who didn't carry something from the house had a completely wrong idea of past events. This is where the basketball fighters were mentioned. Why won't anyone say that Bulevar fighters from Koshar were assigned to the SRS city board's written proposal, the Belgrade-City Committee? Why do you want to hide something like that? We've been proud of the koshar fighters before and now, but we want those koshar fighters to help each other in every way, not just when their name appears in some newspaper. I remind you all, everyone needs to remember, we can't do the wrong history anymore. There's a beautiful mural in Nis that says "Put in the barrels an angry battle for the koshars, let the Serbian students know where the heroes died. “ That is how our students must learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72720	The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72721	Ladies and gentlemen, you propose by this bill a privileged ride by rail, boat or bus, with a 75 % per cent per regular price for four categories of persons, and these are military disabled and civilian disabled wars, family invalids, carriers of the "Partizan Monuments of 1941" and "Ravnogorje Monuments of 1941", as well as for persons decorated by the Order of "The National Hero". We believe that it is necessary to provide these privileges for the first and fighters of other categories which are incomparably more incomparable, especially if it is considered that what you are assigning to the bill is quite fictitious, given that the bearer of the Partizan and the Equality Monuments is almost no longer among the living, such as, unfortunately, there is no longer among the living nor any person decorated with the Orders of the "National Hero", we believe that the privileges relating to the privileged price of travel would be one truly minor concession that the state would have to do to facilitate the lives of the persons who fought for our country, especially when we consider that our country from the budget is financed by various NGOs that are openly anti-Serbian. The least we could do is stop funding such organizations and move some of these funds to make it as easy as possible for our fighters, military disabled, civilian disabled wars and members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72722	Thank you. The 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic has submitted to the title above Article 104 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72723	Mr. Minister, that as a young man, as was the case with me and my brother, you read the books of a respected professor. Veselina Đuretic, who unfortunately left us and died a few days ago, such as his banned book of 1985 "The Allies and the Yugoslav War Drama", you might better understand the whole story about the amendment of this and the recent and all that was told to you by the famous General Delic, because Prof. Djuretic is like a human being, and he said nicely: a modern Serbian history is divided into a period before and after Đuretic, lighting up the role of the Chetniks and their anti-fascist struggle and, instead of now accepting in this order of our insistence to come to this national reconciliation that you are supposed to wish for, and this is the SRS amendment, you rejected it, because Serbian country war fighters, as it is called, to defend the western Serbian countries, to defend the southern Serbian provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, are unique, whether the children of Chetniks or partisans, and they all called themselves Chetniks and so called us our enemies, and we are glad to fight for the defence of every inch of the Serbian country. That's why it took you to show your willingness to step forward and make it clear to future generations that the Serbian country war had country war fighters from 1990 to 1999 and that, according to this, the monument, as we propose, bears that name.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72724	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72725	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all these laws, all these rights that we broadcast, we broadcast after the victory of 2012 after the change. There are a lot of objections to these laws, and I wonder why some people before us didn't regulate this the way they wanted to at the time when they exercised power. Those who complain on social networks, allegedly in favour of fighters, have done nothing to benefit these same fighters. They simply pretended that these fighters did not exist, as if these events never existed, as if people had not become disabled in the wars in which they fought, without 90% of them wanting to, but responded to the calls and responded to the military oaths they made. I've already made an example of Tibor Cerna who died a hero's death in Kosharam. At the same time, this young Hungarian died in Kosharam, and these two, one in the Czech Republic, built a company, and the other in the same time, he found himself too busy to participate in the fight for holy Kosovo and Metohija. It's Bosko Obradovic. He had work to do because he had to run the Dveri magazine. That's what he wrote himself. This gentleman, while Tibor Cerna of Kovacica died for Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, was put away by his father in London to avoid accidentally sniffing out gunpowder, despite his father being one of the directors of Jugopetrol, Milosevic's firm. With all the privileges they had, along with the studies they had in London, they felt that it was not appropriate for their generation, Vuk Jeremic, to share their fate and not accidentally meet in Kosovo and Metohija, in our southern province in an attempt to defend our territory. Mr. Dusan Teodorovic, who has so many objections, is now in years, I admit, but at the time of his aggression in 1999 he was at the best of years to accept the struggle in our southern province in aggression that was committed to our country, which they, other Serbs, must not call aggression, cruel bombing, etc., already called NATO intervention. He was old enough to accept that fight, but, behold, miracles, even in college, he didn't want to teach, and during the aggression, he probably was afraid, not even a hot room in college, nor a chair in college answered him, but he also fled to America, despite being invited by the dean to respond, etc., he didn't want to. He was returned to college by the ministry's decision after 2001, which was a major violation and violation of university autonomy. I have here, Sergei Trifunovic, at a time when Tibor Cerna bled for Serbia, Sergei Trifunovic went from minister to minister to ask him to go to America. And, of course, he defected to the aggressor side during the NATO Pact aggression. I've shown you all this for the second time about this law to show you the difference between a hero who felt that Serbia should also be defended by these groups of other Serbs, nothing. So, the difference between Tibor of the Cerna Hero and a group of these other Serbs, i.e. nothing, who felt that Serbia was not worth defending, but who today are taking from Serbia and what they are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72726	The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72727	While the public is watching our debate here, it includes these people who have been here for several days, not to say months in the park across from this assembly. They expect to solve their problem essentially, in addition to the intense talks with both the country's president and the various ministers. Obviously, they are not satisfied with the status so far, or with the solutions offered to them. Maybe it doesn't take much to do in terms of goodwill to show off. It is not them, I can freely argue, so much to solve financial problems, because they know what Serbia is in. They respect what many have done and done for our country. We're having a debate here, a lot of discussion about the terms. Terminologically, we cannot agree whether it's justified that there is a Partizan monument in 1941 and whether it can be the Eastern Movement. They don't care about that. The public, the citizens of Serbia, are not perfectly interested because most of them understand what this is about. It is simply that the unity of the Serbian people and the Serbian nation was achieved in the wars of the 1990s. In the trenches came descendants and those whose ancestors were prominent partisans and those whose ancestors were Chetniks, and we here about the term. When we say that maybe instead of a monument, it could be the defenders of the country in 1990-1999, the minister here defends it trenchically and says - out of the question. I'm a cartoonist, but I'm kind of like that. Essentially, what Serbian radicals are proposing is what was proposed between 1990 and 1999 and nothing more. That's the point. Same rights, same privileges, same status remains, but the term itself is problematic. It's just that a man can't believe how persistent you are in what you think is essential, and in our opinion, the solution to these people who are across the street in the park is not the essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72728	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 106. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72729	Mr. Minister, if there were no determined people in the park, fighters and veterans, I'm absolutely certain this bill would not exist. Argument – our fellow MP, General Bozidar Delic, as a participant in the Fatherly War, has repeatedly submitted a bill of this kind. I'm absolutely sure it might have been a better quality bill than this one, but you didn't care about it and you didn't accept it. What's going on next? We can make a split in two stages. We have one phase from 2000 to 2012 when, when I tell no one, I mean the government, I mean the regime, it didn't occur to me that it solves this problem for the people who put us in charge and who, as my colleagues said, were willing to show a high level of unity when it was most needed and when it was the most difficult. We are here today running another kind of controversy and another period from 2012 to 2020, that is, to this day when something was trying, I would say in slow motion and from time to time to meet, and even the reception of these people and the conversation might have meant something to them, but the solutions were not still there. You were probably, as a resolute minister, burdened with the fact that, in a material sense, you might try to solve this problem for the better than you've ever been before, and then you neglected, or you missed out on a few of the things that we talked about, and one of them was quite a stir and a lot of people's MPs, and perhaps the general public, as well as the professional public, which is about that monument that we talked about. It's like if someone who writes in his professional title that a graduate sociologist or psychologist had been put in and graduated from high school. This is understood, we already have those who got it, and our proposal, or the Government's proposal to make the situation even more tragic, was to be the "Ravnogorska Monument". In Article 106, we intervened that this medal or monument is called "The Defense of the Country from 1990 to 1999". It has one moral message, it has one essence that's more important than the name itself and the distinction itself. Very often, quite learned people, sometimes academics say we are a people celebrating their defeat, counting on the Kosovo battle. We are a people who celebrate not a kneel. So, even after that outcome, I'm talking about the Kosovo Battle, we didn't get our heads down, but we moved on and thank God, here we are today where we are. I will make a modest contribution to the presentation of three volumes of Professor Vojislav Seselj's book at the Hotel "Freedom" in the Crystal Hall tomorrow at 1800 hours where they will be able to hear on a scientific basis, facts supported that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. So for now, we can do so much, and when the situation changes, when we're part of the government or the government itself, then we'll try a lot more to solve the problem of the country's participants, if there are other wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72730	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 106. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have proposed that Article 2 be added after this position of the 1st member because it is regulated within what time the ministry will be, or the Government will be obliged to bring in appropriate sublaws. Our proposal is to say that the minister responsible for the affairs of combat-involvement protection will bring all the rules in the way of the assignment, the rankings, the appearance of the Boračka monument to the defenders of the country from 1990 to 1999 and the records of the award of the Borački monuments to the day of the application of this law. Given that only on 1 January 2021 is the entry into force of this law, it enters into force eight days after its adoption, and starts in about ten months, we believe that this is more than an adequate time limit and that there is no reason not to limit the time in which the minister in charge must bring all this. Secondly, Mr. Minister, you just said that you first expect to adopt this bill, so that only then will you know how many fighters there are first, how many fighters there are second, how many third-class fighters, because they will probably only apply under that law. I must remind you that you have different records and military departments available and everything else and you, in my opinion, needed to know in advance what number of people are working in each category to apply, or to assess the financial effects of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72732	The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72733	I'm sorry you weren't here when I said so. So, the fighter has a total of 114,000 so far, those first categories have 8,500, and they're sure, if someone's going to ask for that right and get it after this law, I think they will, and that's the idea of this law. As far as this amendment is concerned, Article 210 is just saying that all sublegal acts will be passed until the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72734	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72735	So many, Mr. Minister, more surprises, 8,000 people are not a large number. Why did you refuse the amendments to the SRS relating to the height of the fighting supplement? So if you look at how many categories there are, if you look at it, Mr. Minister, and we talked about it in principle, how much money is allocated to athletes who win one of the medals for the Republic of Serbia and how much is obtained under that law, then you'll notice that if someone does. At the age of 40, he starts to receive these payments and receives them by the age of 80, that he will receive 700,000 euros from the state. It's about people who won a medal. On the other hand, people who are much more, I would say, do for the country, because it's a great honor for athletes, but they've made an effort, while fighters and wartime military people have risked their lives and their heads and offered and given the state an incomparable amount. You as the Government should decide how to rank your merits towards the state, to see how those who rank the state in debt with their intellectuals, so I am talking, first of all, about academics, members of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, who have significantly lower incomes from athletes and, of course, about fighters and rights of martial arts, because it turns out that the country was the most in debt neither those who intellectually contributed to it nor those who fought for that country and without whom there would be neither these other or those athletes, turns out to be the most responsible athletes, I think, first of all, because it is best to paint with athletes after winning some medals. It's much better and more expensive for you from the regime than to take pictures with wartime military people with no legs, no hands, no eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72736	The right to replica has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72737	I'll start from behind, but I'll try to be quick in my answer. With wartime disableds, associations, fighters, the ministry has meetings periodically and very often, whenever one of them asks for a meeting, it is always organised very quickly, unlike some earlier times when they were ashamed of it from 2000 to 2012. But let's put it aside. I also said no confusion, at this point the fighter is 114,000. Our assessment is that there can be up to 300,000 of them and it is precisely the idea now for the first time, by introducing a category of fighters, we allow all those who have the right to claim it and get it right. Only after applying this law, the register, will we have the exact number of those who have achieved this right and then we can talk about just extending the rights not only to this category, but to all other categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72738	The title above Articles 112 and 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? National MP Bozidar Delic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72739	Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, let me start with an explanation. The amendment is said to be rejected for the reason why the proposed amendment does not contribute to better regulation of the issues governed by this article. And in fact, we've only added two words to the government's proposal that's not, let's just say, complete. Because the government's proposal says that if there are no more persons left, it is thought in life, members, means, if there are no more members of the Montenegrin movement, that a posthumous monument can be awarded to members of the family, and if there are no more relatives in the first line to the second degree. We have only added that this is "on request", so we have more precisely regulated this position, as it can be allocated, can and does not have to. So, when we say - at the request, it is quite precise that if members who have the right to submit a request to the municipal authority, they will be treated according to that requirement. And this can, it can also mean it's on request, but I think we've made it absolutely more precise and it should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72740	The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72741	Who knows which way we're talking about it again, the Keeper's Monument. It is explained here that Article 112 of Article 2 of the proposed law, that the rights of the bearer of the Ravnogorje monument in 1941 are equated with the holders of the Partizan Monument in 1941 and that there is no need to additionally burden the text of the law. We have seen how the proposal for the Equality Monument passed through these amendments, which came from the SPS parliamentary group. So, we believe that this should have been done, and now, if it is respected, and if representatives of the parliamentary majority do not decide otherwise at the vote, and finally we should show in this Assembly what the National Assembly is, what is the Government, because the Government's proposals are being declared by the Assembly, and it can also reject the Government's proposal, but also not accept the proposal of a national MP. I think it would mean a lot to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if the parliamentary majority in the voting day rejected these amendments accepted by the government, because the government said its own, and that is what MPs sitting in this assembly should say. (Alexander Martinovic: Well, they became an integral part of the bill. ) Also, MPs may not accept the bill in the voting day, because someone says this is a minor and irrelevant issue, and I say that this is a very important issue and that the minister and government should not have allowed themselves to be touched by its proposal, because the government's proposal was completely adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72742	The amendment, which is added to the title after article 116, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72743	This is another amendment that does not require any significant material expenditure and only once in the lives of fighters. This is to add, after Article 116, a provision of 26, which reads: "A true fighter for a military honor in the event of death" and below, Article 116a, which reads: "A fighter in the event of death has the right to military honors which he is carrying out in accordance with the regulations on military honors of a dead fighter who brings in a competent minister for the affairs of martial law". The military honor should be given at the request of a family who should inform the nearest military department and during the funeral of the deceased fighter, the family should also receive the flag of the Republic of Serbia, as usual. This is what I was talking to the Secretary of State, Mr. Neric, who is present here. He says it is being resolved by other regulations, but other regulations concern members of the Serbian Army, not fighters, so I think this amendment should be adopted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72744	The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 118. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Miodrag Lint submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72745	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our fighters must be appreciated by our disabled. Many have become disabled beyond their convictions, past their mistakes, beyond their will. One of my acquaintances entered the war as soon as he got out of prison, and went to prison from the military, and was convicted of doubting the loyalty of the Croat soldier, who was according to the nationality of the Croats. When they argued, he was sentenced to a year in prison for violating brotherhood and unity. These delusions of brotherhood and unity have cost us much as a nation, especially him. Being in prison for a year because you suspected the patriotism of your colleagues at a time when you already saw that his Socialist Republic was hesitant and that it was on its way to renew the NDH. That's why he got 12 months in prison. He just got out of the army and jail and was mobilized and sent to Vukovar, where he was wounded. I've told this story so that our viewers and we can see for ourselves that our delusions are being paid dearly. I was telling you about Franjo Pirac who directly from Pavelic's headquarters became the first commander of the Air Force and anti-aircraft defence. I'll also tell you about the last Yugoslav commander of the Air Force and the anti-air defense or the man who was in charge. His name was Anton Tus. I remember well, just a few days earlier, these youngest Tito's committees, some of them, said it was not true that Anton Tus would betray, that it was a proven Yugoslav patriot, patriot, etc., and only five days later Anton Tus burned down and joined the headquarters of a new independent state of Croatia, i.e. Tudjman's independent state of Croatia. When we add that to Stipe Mesic, Mark Mesic, Franjo Pirtz, Franjo Tudjman, etc., then we can look at all our naiveties that we no longer have the right to. I also told you about March 27, where it is said – thanks to us, on March 27, the attack on the Soviet Union was delayed. At the time General Simovic was an officer of the royal army, he raised it, and then they said the Kingdom was rotten, etc. Yes, it was rotten because they were digging from the inside, so the Dresden Conference, etc., so they wanted to make national states, which they eventually succeeded with the 1974 Constitution. They, as the greatest war winners, raised guns and weapons to the state and to the people who allowed them to have their own national states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72746	The amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic to Article 137. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Chevarlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With this amendment, I have suggested that the property of a wartime military invalid can be acquired on the basis of post-traumatic stress disorder and if it is also established after the entry into force of this law within a year when it is established. Given that I think the absurd restriction is the recognition of the status of a military disabled, based on the condition of post-traumatic stress disorder, to the entry into force of this law when it is already excluded from the restrictions on all other diseases and that it is logical to remove this time clause, and the minister can also be convinced by consulting with specialists, the doctor at VMA whether this is true. I think that for the rest of my life, every fighter can have this disease, and I don't see any reason why it would only be limited to a year since the law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72748	National MPs Bozidar Delic and Milorad Mircic submitted the 137th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Delich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72749	With this amendment, we asked that this period, which was given in law, be extended from one year to two years. When we proposed this, we had in mind that no one today knows how many fighters who have suffered from post-traumatic syndrome, that it is necessary to provide this documentation, and that we are also because Article 147, and in particular Article 148, provides that when a military disabled person is recognised under schizophrenia, manically depressed psychosis, neurosis, psychopathia, post-traumatic syndrome, and that I am not still counting, this competent commission can only give its opinion on the condition that a previous clinical trial involving hospital treatment, hospital observation with appropriate testing and other hospital activities has been conducted. In Articles 137 and 147, it is said that, exceptionally from Article 1(1), the request for recognition of the properties of a wartime wartime invalid based on post-traumatic stress disorder can be submitted within a year and with documentation originating from a period of time to the entry into force of this law. So, if Article 148 is taken into account, the Minister should reply whether this opinion is given by the competent commission and where a clinical trial is required, whether it is done, whether it is requested by the commission or simply examined by the documentation if it was requested by a previous commission or if it was carried out in the previous period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72750	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72751	Thank you, Chairman. I'd say about one problem involving a dozen faces. In fact, we have a dozen dead fighters' wives from the Krajina area, who received a family disability, but were suspended because of their entry into the out-of-marriage community. I will give an example to Mrs. Ankica Nikolic Banic, whose husband died at the Krajina battlefield, she received a family disability, received that disability while her children were underage, and in the meantime, while her children were underage from the first marriage, she entered the extramarital community and had another child. When the children of the first marriage of the deceased husband became full - age, she was disfellowshipped by a family invalid. I have submitted an amendment to Article 27 where I asked to delete Article 1 and Article 27 of the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and Members of their Families, paragraph 1 reads - the right under this law cannot be achieved by a spouse or by an out-of-marriage partner if he has entered into a new marriage or by establishing an out-of-marriage union, and if he has achieved them, he ceases on the day of the establishment of a new marriage or an out-of-marriage union. I think you should think about this and I think this is an unfair solution. I believe the law allows the birth of children and that the legal basis should be found by eradicating this Article 1 in Article 127. The bill so that a spouse or an out - of - wedlock partner if he has entered into a new marriage or formed an out - of - wedlock community should retain the right to a personal and family disability. Such cases, according to the information I have only a dozen, and I think that, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, Mr. Secretary of State Neric, we should see how to regulate it. I had many representatives of the association in the previous period, including Mr. Milan Popic, who is a member of the Association of Severe Military Disabilities and families of fallen fighters, all of Serbia's wars. He told me that in early 2018, so in January 2018 he delivered 12 cases to Minister Djordjevic concerning three groups of problems. The first group concerns 12 civilian disabled wars I spoke of in the previous part of the session. The second group concerns these dozens of cases related to the extramarital community and the third group, it is seven, eight persons who have been abolished by a personal or family disability, their departure abroad. I'll talk about it a little bit wider when the next amendment comes. Also, Mr Popic told me and asked me to say that in June 2018, a meeting was held with President Vukic and that President Vukic said that these three groups of problems should be resolved and regulated legally in this new law on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civilian war and members of their families. So, I'd like to ask Mr. Djordjevic and Mr. Neric to also see the first group of problems, so 12 civilian disabled wars, I repeat this other group of problems, a dozen cases related to the extramarital community and the third group of problems I'm going to talk about, related to these seven, eight people who went abroad, to try to solve. In my opinion, a great injustice would be corrected against these close to thirty persons or families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72752	On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72753	Thank you. With this article, as before, I suggest that the post-traumatic stress disorder that occurred under the circumstances of Article 5 of this Law, which is determined on the basis of medical documentation, there is no time limit. The very nature of post-traumatic stress disorder of medicine claims that there is a disorder with a delayed fact that cannot be diagnosed until the moment it emerges. So if we limit the time limit by law, then we'll damage a significant number of potential fighters and military disabled people who can be led under this medical diagnosis. Sublegislative acts may need to regulate that this post-traumatic stress disorder is determined on VMA and thus avoid all possible differences between individual commissions and to trust it exclusively in the final stage of VMA, but there is no reason to eliminate the possibility of this medical disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72754	On Article 151 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 156 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72755	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the booklets providing transport are the least we can do for those who have fought and who have paid the highest price in that fight. What few colleagues want to say, especially from the opposition, is that the glory of the fighters would have gone completely dark, if there had been no change in 2012, and since then all significant events have been marked, never for Koshara, during the rule of the yellow regime, it was almost heard. They'd never hear of their heroic struggle, they'd never be in a position to repair the material, financial position of soldiers, fighters, people with disabilities, etc. because the state would completely break down. So, she was completely economically devastated, she was combatless. Economically, she couldn't handle broadcasting any rights, even those regulated by this law. The better Serbia will stand, the better the rights of citizens, and thus the better the fighters, the smaller the receipts, although money cannot be compensated for what was lost in the war. We are the people who had the misfortune of democratisation that was to occur in the 1990s, to see from democracy the first sanctions, and then to see the bombing, then to the poored uranium, and then to experience the fact that in Albania, we are being pulled out of our organs and sold on the black market. At the end of that cycle, we saw a wild predatory privatisation, and the state failed economically, so that it could not guarantee the rights of any citizen, so neither to the fighters nor to the disabled. It is fortunate that in 2012, we managed to defeat these yellow cockroaches and thus put a state on our feet. I believe that the more we make economic progress, the more we will be respected and the more those who have divided us used each other against each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72756	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72757	Thank you. I'd like to talk about this third group of problems I recently mentioned. So it's seven, eight people of the extremities, who have earned the right to a personal and family disability, but have lost the same by going abroad, whether they have returned to Croatia or gone to Australia, European countries, America, etc. I'll give you two examples. Mrs Jelena Strizak, whose husband died in 1991 in Petrinja, returned to the Republic of Croatia because of the difficult economic situation, her return to Croatia ended her family disability. We have the case, Mrs. Danice Radic, whose husband died in the "Miljevska plato" criminal action, in June 1993, was also abolished by a family invalid, returning to Croatia. I think the abolition of personal family disability for these seven, eight Krajisnik cases is illegal and unfair. I would ask Minister Djordjevic and Secretary of State Neric, that we also see in this case the possibility of allowing them to apply for a family personal disability and to receive a family personal disability again. So finally to recap, we have three groups of problems, which I have submitted three amendments to. I remind you, 12 civilian disabled wars, which abolished their personal disability in 2013. I urge that there be a way for these 12 civilian disabled wars from the region of Krajina to regain their personal disability, which they have received for 12 years. The second group of problems I spoke about earlier concerns a dozen people who received a personal or family disability, and who in the meantime formed an out - of - wedlock community. I think it's unfair, too, and that's where they need to find a solution to allow them to apply and re-access the family disability. Finally, this third group, which I mentioned earlier, is about seven, eight people, who have received personal family disability, but by going abroad, their right to a personal family disability has been lifted. I also think it's illegal, unfair, and that a solution is found so that they can file for re-receivement of a personal and family disability. So it's only 30 people from the Krajina area, who are being discriminated at this point, who do not exercise the rights that belong to them. Finally, I urge Minister Djordjevic and Secretary of State Neric once again to try to find a solution for these thirty people in these three groups of problems I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72758	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 159. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 208 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda five. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft laws on gambling. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Law. Otherwise, this member of the law speaks of the definition, defines the concepts of gambling and, let's say, this article says that the gain, i.e. the loss, depends solely on the case or the happiness. I asked this thing to be a little predefinition, to get a little closer to reality, because we have cases of gambling where winnings, or loss depends not solely on happiness, but on knowledge or foreknowledge, however you like. Especially with games of chance, at sports bookies, if you could freely interpret the definition of this concept, say when you play derby Partizan and Star, the probability is 33, 33% that the outcome of the football game will be either the victory of either team or the tie. However, when the game is played by the Red Star and the Worker from Surdulica or some smaller club, mathematically speaking, the probability is that again. But reality is saying something else, and the reality is that it's certainly a huge probability that this game will be won by the Red Star or by the Partizan or anyone. That's why I asked my amendment to define the concept of gain, or loss, in addition to the case and happiness that decides most about it, to insert and certain, possibly in certain games of some knowledge, foreknowledge, or some undefined case. But the government didn't accept this amendment, and I think it's so logical, and I'm doing this one example here and I showed and proved that it should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72760	On behalf of Article 5 and Article 5 of the amendment, the Government submitted. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? At the name of Article 5 and Article 5 of the amendment, the Citizens' Protector submitted. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 5th and 5th amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? The names of members 5 and 5 of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72761	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 5. The bill defines the objective of throwing a game of chance, and we have only specified this legal norm with this amendment. What certainly matters when it comes to gambling is that at first they are exciting, but that they can grow into passion and addiction that can cause many problems. According to data from 2017, 33,000 gamblers were registered in Serbia, and among young people aged 18-26, every fourth person had a gambling problem. Although it's forbidden for minors to come to the bookies, the bookies are full of children, regardless of this ban, and they bet a lot. Children, or minors, tend in different ways to pay for a ticket, often giving their older friends money to do so. It is also an alarming fact that children first deposit their ticket at the age of 10, often with their parents present. Unfortunately, the consequences of all this can be catastrophic and society must certainly work to prevent young people from addiction and gambling, because we know that the youngest patient, or gambling addict, is only 14 years old at one of the gambling addiction centers. It's devastating, for both parents and for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72762	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72763	This bill does not answer all the questions that should be addressed and related to gambling. Of course, it is likely that in practice it is not possible to predict all the problems and all the controversial situations. What we didn't recognize was enough protection to prevent young people from entering the gambling system, it doesn't exist. You are saying that this law has been applied because it does not comply with European Union legislation, and in order to prevent money laundering that would later be used for terrorist purposes, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that both technological resources and achievements are now something different, so that it can be monitored by the control system itself, which would be important for the state. First, we need to see who benefits the most, or who should benefit the most from these gambling games. Usually it happens, you know, that the poorer places, the harder the situation in society, that gambling is becoming more and more occupied by places and spaces in those environments. The most benefits of this are certainly game-makers, then there is a state, and so it should be, the state should have a huge income from that gain, and at least certainly have those who participate in these games. Here it should be borne in mind that certain economic operators are also organising these gambling games, because they want to speed up and motivate their customers, their business partners, and it should have a completely different relationship, although there should be a lot of control, because there is also a right to launder that money that they use for their own private purposes, not of course to speed up terrorism or anything else. Perhaps these casinos were supposed to be, although the gamemakers of chance are looking for the most attractive locations and that these are very large, of course, all of these are then transferred to those who participate in these games of chance, but should not be, I think that, ministers, there, should even be defined by this bill, if not, try through some sublegal acts to make the level of sublegality important, or in some way what could deter young people and young people who could enter and become professional gamblers, which is probably not the goal of the state, is not the goal of anyone, because they are very often now tragic consequences in families whose even one participant in that family is a retired gambler or someone who cannot resist that vice. So we need what the law is, we know what the law provides, but in some sublaws you should make such a situation and such an environment that as little gambling as possible, especially children and youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72764	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Financial Committee, the republican budgets and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Rade, submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72766	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, gambling is a great monster of every society, and of course ours. It is good for gambling to be regulated as well as possible by law and not only should the law's intensity be seen how much of a tax is to be drawn from gambling, but the problem must be approached as seriously as possible. We can't fight games in luck, in a way, to say, that's what we'll ban. It's simply something that's a reality, but we can contain as much as possible the negative consequences of gambling as possible. Here first of all, I mean the bookies, the bookies that are in all of Serbia, whatever place you go, whatever city seat you're going to see in the most beautiful location is the bookies. The bookies are getting underage faces without any control. It used to be that some younger kid, a younger man, asked his neighbor to buy him a ticket in a bookie, and now he's free to come in and sit down, drink a Guarana, fill a ballot, so a multiple negative influence on young people. What's also a problem is the proximity of these bookies and schools. The law also makes it possible to take as far away as possible from schools as possible and concretely as possible, but in practice it is very different. Believe it or not, King Alexander's school in New Belgrade had a director, he's fortunately not a recent director, but that director was famous for looking wherever he could to get some material personal benefit for himself. They were next to that school, there was a bookie close by and when the law was changed then he got, that bookie got a warrant to move away from school. And what did this director of King Alexander's school in New Belgrade do? Believe it or not? He dealt with that bookie's owner took the money for himself, and that owner also switched doors at school, switched entrances at school, to be on the other side of the school, so he was far enough away to meet the legal requirement. So, the law needs to make all the arrangements maximum, but then the competent field inspections do their job according to that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72767	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, there is a People's MP, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72768	Thank you, Your Honor. I would really like to commend the Ministry of Finance and the Government, because this really is a great law. I'm someone who knows the subject perfectly, and it's true, it used to be a big problem just because of minors that they could somehow get to the bookies to pay for the ticket. However, it has been back in serious companies for years, not so. It is this law that further tightens the measures for anyone who allows minors to even enter the betting room, not yes, do not give God a payment ticket. So, I'm glad that the gambling directors themselves, I'm talking about serious companies and credibility, insisted that this measure be tightened because it undermines their credibility. It's everywhere in the world. A lot of people don't know, we figure it out here, so we say, it's a monster. Yeah, it is a monster, but if that processor realizes that the player should be home, but if you realize that someone should have fun, it's the entertainment industry. For example, you in Great Britain have a minister from this area who is a member of the cabinet even because it brings huge money to the state. You need to know that you have a certain measure, how and how it is arranged. That's why credible companies all over the world insist on what's-his-name. Social responsibility. Almost all companies, serious and in the world, including us, are trained in health institutions to identify their site operator as an addict, for example, and not allow him to bet, or direct him to a health care facility. For example, we have co-operation with Drazer, or the Draiser Street Institute, and often and not rarely do so. So, I'm talking about serious companies. A serious problem was the gray market, i.e. the black market. I'm glad this law makes it worse. The credibility of the serious companies in this industry violated the black market because they allowed everything there, it could indeed have been allowed in there by minors. This law fantastically regulates and disables black market editors will absolutely prevent them from working in the future. This reduces the risk of juvenile gambling, and this is something to be commended for. Also, it is very important to me that much bigger money will be allocated to social responsibility and to finance smaller sports, and to finance other sports companies, the Red Cross, etc., and that the producers themselves I say again, I am talking about credible companies insisted that measures be increased here. What I still have to commend the minister is an absolute increase in gambling fees because something like that can only withstand a credible company of those who have been hunting in a blur can't handle it, and I certainly hope they can't even get a license. So this is an industry where only someone who is credible in the world and of course with us can participate in this. So they all praise for something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72769	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. My colleague Radeta, would you like a replica of my colleague Djukanovic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72770	I must admit that I am unable to distinguish between serious or non-serious game directors, because what I see as someone passing by those casinos is different from what my colleague Djukanovic said and I believe that everything he said is true, but it would be good to apply. I'm not going to advertise a playroom right now, so I'm talking where I saw it myself and I see it on Saturdays, especially underage kids, boys, girls who go into bookies, stay inside, stay and nobody recognizes or pretends to recognize that they're minors. We have from all sides of the attack on underage drug addicts, across bookies, to addiction to computer games, as much as it is on the one hand technological progress so much on the other hand can seriously endanger the mental health of a child. All the things I've listed, and then, of course, those games of chance. What we insist on and what we insist on, we have done through amendments, and that and in principle debate, and today, of course, through the explanation of our amendments, we also insist on what was well done by this law not only to remain a dead letter on paper. To repeat what I said earlier and the past law said that he couldn't be a bookie next to the school and the principal got the money to get the school door, the school entrance to move to the other side of the school. So this is not the story of the "King of Alexander" school in New Belgrade. Whoever comes by and now can see where the door used to be and the entrance to that school, and where they are now to make a concession at the bookies. We are talking about law enforcement and a more serious approach to the state not only by passing laws, but also by further implementing what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72771	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right to the replica of MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72772	Thank you. I would really ask, if you know the name and name of that professor, he deserves to be publicly disgraced. So it's not a bad thing to say your name and name because it's something you can't possibly do. What people need to know, when it comes to credible gambling directors, it is known that people who are in the world and in our market, and we thank God we have two companies that belong to the top 10 in the world by the rank, and there we have very good innovations in that area of technology, where the state makes pretty good money on it, but what is known everywhere in the world, including us, every operator on the spot in any betting room, when they suspect that the person is underage, is obliged to ask for his ID card, and if he finds himself underage to take him off the scene. Also a parent who went to the store, but stopped by to pay the ticket, and he's taking the kid with him, can't get into any bookies. Rigid are measures, and this operator may lose a job by his employer, and certainly the bookie herself suffers, so I would ask you and this way I am giving a call to all citizens if you notice that somewhere a minor is entering a bookie, to report it immediately, to the inspection, and of course I am asking the owners of these toys to sanction their operators, or how in their rules it is defined to fire them if such a thing really exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72773	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. A colleague of Radeta's, right on the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72774	Every time I hear citizens are invited to report something, I kind of think, here are the states in that segment that don't work. Now, what I'm going through, I'm going to the market, and I see kids coming into that bookroom, I'm sorry, what's going on, but do you think I'm supposed to be looking for a phone right now and I'm calling, I'm turning a number that nobody's gonna answer, and two feet from me is standing two cops and they see what I see. So I'm talking about something that's a reality, and we're just calling for a more serious approach to solving this problem, and that's what we said when it comes to drug abuse, when it comes to protecting children, than all the monsters that lurk in this country, in this society. Not enough attention is paid. We'll regret the missed generations, and we'll regret it. Em is maimed through a poor education system, and even if they do things like this, then what kind of generations are they expected to be at the head of the most important functions in this country tomorrow, and they're going to do serious and responsible jobs. Of course, we don't think all young people are like that. But if there is one, we must protect him, it is our duty to protect him. Thank God, there aren't too many of them, but I repeat, as much as there is, that's a lot. And the school director, who was removed from the school's position is a professor of mathematics and is now teaching at another school and is no longer at King Alexander's School, his name is Milan Pusica, and I don't know what you insist we say, if we said it was the director of King Alexander School, who was changing school entrances and that's enough, and that's enough talking about how much you think someone else should do your job. Instead of being an MP for the government, turn the minister and tell him who your director is, he'll know within half an hour and let the public know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72775	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72776	I honestly think it's our duty for each of us to report, if he notices that there's a violation of the law somewhere, for a number of reasons. Of course, if the officer is anywhere near or the inspector is in charge that he should be the first to respond, and if he's not here and you notice him, and you're still the MP, it's certainly your duty to call and report. I personally, when I know that some store worker is working on black, I call and report to that employer, because he's holding on to a black worker, stealing from me, from each of you, and you know here additionally, since I'm familiar with this area, if there's somewhere for someone from a minor to bet, that he keeps that bookie, works on black and doesn't pay taxes to the state, he's throwing illegal gambling and, of course, allowing minors and it's my duty to report it, and I'm going to do it every time. I think all of us would have to do that, although we're very socially responsible, and I agree that the state, you're the ministers here, I'm appealing to you, even now, to add to the passing of this law that I repeat, an extraordinary law, to further tighten the measures and control of the gambling directors, and to accidentally find no minor anywhere, to bet eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72777	Thank you. Radeta colleague, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72778	The job of the MP is exactly what we are doing here, it is also a job to be in every place at every time of the day a MP, a representative of the citizens, and to talk to people, to receive information and that is exactly what the MPs of the SRS are doing. Now, would I report this obviously illegal gambling director, or this bookie, to the owner of that bookie? Well, I might have reported it, but there's no point, because he's a member of a larger municipality in Belgrade. Here you go and find out while this debate is going on, you have all the instruments, you check it out, it's easy to know which part of town I'm moving on Saturdays and where it is, so go ahead and let us know who this illegal bookie owner is, who gets minors into that bookies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72779	Thank you. The amendment, which is proposed after Article 16, to add Articles 16a and 16b, was submitted by the Citizens' Protector. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment proposed to add members 16a and 16b together was submitted by MPs Ljupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is proposed by the amendment "Ljupka Mihajlovska". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72780	Thank you, Chairman. We have here proposed to make a percentage distribution to organisations dealing with sensitive social groups, however, it has already been accepted by the government amendment that contained both this and that total percentage that is derived from the revenues from gambling. However, I must say that my speech in the principle debate about this when I was speaking has caused really great attention, especially to people with disabilities, and I literally don't stop returning calls and answering calls from various people from all over Serbia who call me and who are very supportive of me in what I've said. Some things I haven't brought to the end, in fact, they resent me for not mentioning each organization individually, what injustices are done and what these funds are spent on. So, first of all, I want to say that there is certainly an organization that truly represents the interests of people with disabilities and actually implement programs that contribute to their larger inclusion. First of all, I think about organizations that organize different community support services, personal assistance, personal child companion, sign language interpreters, housing with support, etc., so what people include in the social community. However, these organisations are not in regular programme financing of the ministry, but they have to compete each year in tenders that units of local self-government are asking about, they must have accredited programmes, licensed, more accurate, services and they do their job very well and do very useful things. However, we have municipalities that also allocate funds for these services, but there are no organisations that are qualified enough to carry out these services. Then you have, say, in some less developed municipalities that the inter-resor commission grants you a certain service, but there is no one to perform, no social work centres, no such organization. What I was talking about and what is controversial is that many, as they call themselves, are getting large amounts of money from various ministries, of course, the most from the Ministry of Labour, and the effect of their programmes is very questionable. There, on the other hand, we have a situation, and I don't blame the Ministry that much. For what? Because no one has, let's say, the guts to deal with this, because it's a sensitive social group and then everybody says -- you know, let's not touch anything here, we'll do what they tell us. Then you have some interesting groups among these organizations that come, of course, to every minister who comes and tells the assistants -- well, you see, that's what you need. These people say you know best what you need, we'll finance it. But it's not always a situation. It is that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities implies that these organisations are involved in the work and being questioned by the state, but whoever wrote the Convention did not expect that there would be organisations that do not work in the interests of persons with disabilities, but in their own personal interest. So we have a situation that the president of the Union of Blind Lords has been in office for 20 years. I do not claim that I, members of this alliance and city organizations, claim that it is an unskilled, uneducated person, digitally illiterate, who has been leading them for 20 years. To be worse and black, that person is also, yesterday I checked in the APR, and the person representing the national organisation of disabled persons who have every single alliance in their system. So it's a conflict of interest. What's my appeal? My appeal is also to the Ministry of Finance, above all, as someone who distributes these budgets, to really put pressure on everyone to carry out the evaluation of the programs these organizations are carrying out and not to throw the money into the well. You know, when Prime Minister, or Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, asked me to help the government create a working group and chair this task force that will deal with improving accessibility, many of the representatives of these organisations were excited, as it is possible that someone who is constantly criticising this authority to have the prime minister call him now. Well, you know, in addition to being a person with disabilities, you should also have a certain integrity to deal with some topic and everywhere in the world of this roof organization really do represent the interests of people with disabilities, but not in subjective terms. The duty of the people who run these organizations is to show the government and the ministries when they're not doing something right, not just to nod their heads and to be as much of the money as they get. So my proposal was also, why not, that those who are financed from the budget, whose salaries are financed from the budget, which, believe me, are often higher than ministers' salaries, are also subject to control by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Here, if anyone suspects my allegations, I also invite people involved in investigative journalism, KRIK, Insider, to come, to do a little combing on those papers, so let them see what happens in those organizations. Let's not, under the rule of humanity, under the rule of human rights, cover up some injustices. People are very unsatisfactory, unable to replace the overarching leadership of these organizations, while people abuse their position and threaten to support their membership, I don't know, in the president of Serbia, the minister, and probably neither the president of Serbia nor the minister know that they use it as their own shield for their own power. So, of course we need to improve the position of people with disabilities, of course we need to allocate funds, of course there should be organisations dealing with this, but we need to measure the effect of these programs, not to spend millions, billions and throw in a well, and it has no effect and nothing is seen. When you get out on the street, you still have inaccessible city transport, where you can't get in people who use wheelchairs, you don't have downed curbs, there's no support services, parents of children with developmental disorders spend all their capacity to include these children in society, not to talk about blind, deaf, people with mental disabilities etc. So, I ask you once again to review these programs and that the funds focus on system-based problem-solving people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72781	Thank you, colleague. According to the amendment, the word has been authorised by a representative of the SNS parliamentary group MP Milanka Jevtovic Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72782	Thank you. I would like to express my satisfaction with the Prime Minister that this amendment has been proposed by the government, because this law is from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. So this law, its basic thread, the substance and it contains that economic law. However, what you have shown by your proposal is that this law shows a great social responsibility to the most vulnerable, vulnerable social groups, which are persons with disabilities. Of course, that part of the funds goes to the "Red Cross", which again has persons from particularly vulnerable groups and of course part of these funds, which is 40%, is also intended for other programmes in the field of social protection. Therefore, all praises for re-determining the percentage amount, which is 40%. As for the association and the organisation of persons with disabilities, it is the duty of all of us, of course, to the institutions of the system, that all of our knowledge and knowledge that we have that someone is improperly and inadequately spending money, to report these knowledge to the competent institutions, which is the Ministry of the Interior. To know such a thing, and to conceal it is the same to actually join such an act. Therefore, in this regard, I would like to appeal that institutions in the Republic of Serbia are doing their job and that anyone who has knowledge of any financial malfeasance should report this to the competent institutions. What I also want to point out is that it is a matter of status, i.e. support for persons with disabilities and in the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, that there is a sector of care for persons with disabilities, that throughout the year there is an open competition for their programming activities, that the state is doing a lot and has done enough to improve and service in the daily community for people with disabilities. I also want to point out that this is a sensitive issue and that every day as the country's economy grows, and she thank God, year after year and so on, we have more resources to provide in a completely adequate way even better than today, to make their tomorrow better than it is today, and so far so much so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72783	Thank you, colleague. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go. (National MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and Vjerica Radeta are getting from the post. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72784	What do you need a phone for, you can get out of place. You're so hugged you can't even have a phone. Commenting on the conversation, the urban talks of two MPs from the former Serbian Radical Party, one still remains in the Serbian Radical Party, so the radicals are both. Here's what the Serbian Radical Party proposes in this Article 27. It is when it is a public extraction in direct TV transmission, of course it is meant to be a direct TV broadcast in front of TV cameras, but we, as an additional security, foresee that this member be required to be a member of the administration when it comes to control and when it comes to the process of extracting, i.e. showing and rewarding the game, no matter what it is, but being a member of the administration. It's safety to be as regular as possible, because we're aware that everything is subject to manipulation, especially when gambling is at stake. How many times did we make sure that direct TV broadcasts made claims that the extraction was staged when it came to "Loto" and so on. That's why the Serbian Radical Party... What do you say, colleague Saviæ? (Nikola Savic: Bad draw for the Champions League. I expected you to say too much, and you're throwing me something that should be funny. In any case, we need to increase control and remove any suspicion in time. And that the most regular thing is, that he's under the greatest control, there's always a certain suspicion after a while especially these colleagues who have experience with the lottery.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72785	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72786	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. A bill of law on gambling. I asked for an amendment to the above-mentioned member of the law. This article speaks of cases where the drawout of winnings at gambling is drawn in front of TV cameras. I asked the amendment to define this matter in a better and more precise way. I asked for the term "real-time extraction" to be added, which will improve the text of the law. We also had cases of abuse and direct television transmissions. Just remember the situation from a time ago when the award game "The Minimum Single Offer" was held. And what happened? After a while, it was found that winnings go to the same person. It was only then that the alarm went off and there was a reaction from the authorities. So there is always a danger of possible abuse, even if the extraction was carried out in a direct TV broadcast. For this reason, it is necessary that every thing be defined in a clear and precise way, because this kind of abuse will continue to happen regardless of what you think the law prevents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72787	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment asked for the number seven to be replaced by five. The member is talking about the obligation of the Serbia State lottery within which the lottery is required to publish the results of gambling in the press or on its official website. The law provides for that deadline to be seven days from the day of the drawout, i.e. the determination of profits. The Serbian Radical Party believes the deadline should be five days, although I personally think it is a long period, it could be shorter, because in this era of information technologies it is not necessary to wait seven days to publish official results. We all know that, in most cases, the extraction of numbers is transmitted on some television channel with a national frequency, so the results of the extraction are learned at the same time. It is unclear then that it is waiting so long to publish official results, which fuels a certain suspicion of their credibility. We know that there are prescribed deadlines for the payment of premiums, i.e. the delivery of profits received in the form of an appropriate gift or an appropriate service. The bottom line is that the gambling director unwarrantedly propagates deadlines for publication of results, as well as deadlines for delivery of premiums, i.e. gains. For example, someone has won as a reward some summer clothing, hat, slippers, shorts, baths, and he gets that gift in the fall or winter, whichever player lucky is damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72789	Thank you. The Guardian of Citizens has submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 36, paragraph 2, is amended and reads as follows: "The basic capital of the legal person prescribed in the position of the 1st member must be registered in accordance with the regulations and registration of the legal persons", with the reason that the amendment's solution is more precisely defined by the draft of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the term, our government has shown that it is engaged in legislative innovation. How? One number of laws is driven by practical problems, more specifically from bad or incomplete, i.e. vague normative solutions. A large number of these laws have been initiated on the sidelines and is related to some of our European futures, if that occurs, while we, Serbian radicals, hope that it will never happen. Tens of these laws serve our harmonisation with Europe. At least those laws initiated by ambitious ministers because they wanted to mark this mandate by adopting so-called "the law". roof laws, I don't mean you, Mr. Minister. The Games of Happiness are not just a matter of the Ministry of Finance, which is with the Ministry of Culture, Information, Education, Americans are most betting and gambling, but they have the so-called National Council for Problemary Gambling Many European countries have recognized this problem, so it is a supported initiative to promote so-called "The European Country". responsible gambling. What's the point? The goal is to bring the potential dangers of gambling to potential users and, most importantly, to ensure fair conditions for this entertainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72791	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72792	In this law, which fellow Djukanovic so praises and says it is the best and that the government has done a great job, does not write a single sentence, which is – the cube can kill. Everyone thinks that various other diseases can only come to a man's head, of course, narcotics and everything else, first of all I think of young people, but it should be said that it's a monster of this age, and even when it's a world and a century, the cube is, and it's written by great world writers many works, who knows how many millions of people in the ambis to take their own life, to ruin their own lives and their own family. The World Health Organization co-operated with our Institute for the Protection and Prevention of Dependence Diseases last year, in fact in autumn 2018, and this result was published last year, carried out one analysis. They're taken into account adolescents, and they're underage faces, so I'm thinking of them, from 15, even those who've just become, so up to 18. The survey covered in various Serbian cities, watch out, in the entire territory of about 480 of these young people. The frantic data, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, is that 36.7% of these respondents said, and it's mostly boys who are first or second grade high school, that they went into bookies, that they were visited, and that they tried to gamble. More than 4% of respondents found that they became gambling addicts in bookies, I mean sports bookies, because they say – it all starts by organizing, we agree at school to go to some bookies on weekends to watch games, and then we start filling up the tickets. So to finish the interrogation as it was conducted, about 12% of them are latent gambling addicts. Is that normal for you? It's not, as no one's normal, it wouldn't be normal. How can it be prevented? In its provisions, the law makes it clear how employees, book owners and competent authorities should react if they notice that a minor child uses such services? Well, do you think those young people who decided to go that way, that is to say, are not resourceful and not able to cope? Or ask some grown-up, some gambler, who's already hooked up, well, even though he knows he's got a wife and kids at home, and maybe someone who's just moved on to find himself in life, and start with a cube, fill his ticket, talk about these young people, or know what Mrs. Radeta said, the owner of that bookie. That's the point, not what it's going to say in this bill. Every government has said it is the best, and this law has changed since 2000 or 2001 who knows how many times. Anyway, what are the authorities going to do to prevent this from happening? We can't go through the adoption of this law to popularize games of chance. They exist everywhere in the world, but the goal of our Serbian radicals is to tell everyone that absolutely never enters or moves to gamble.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72793	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72794	I have to deny it. This law, unfortunately, hasn't changed. I think it was brought in in the last year of 2011. Nothing's changed since then, and we've been behind a lot, as far as that goes. I think it's a far bigger problem to put in front of us so-called. online betting, i.e. online betting, where additional protections must be made, especially those who are card users through whom they pay to avoid accidental use of that card by his or her child or other minors. It's a much bigger monster, because now people, I'm following these trends, a growing number of people are going to the bookies, than they're betting on home, to be completely honest. You know, I understand this danger that someone older than a minor can go to pay for it, but we're banned and selling alcohol to minors, so someone older goes out and buys it for them and throws a party. What's the solution? Should we end Rubin in Krushevac or put an end to the production of cigarettes in Nis or Vranj? So we can't reason that way. We all have to get involved in a campaign against juvenile betting, and this is exactly what this law does. This law introduces even more rigid measures if a minor doesn't give God a chance to bet. So that bookie closes, gets a ticket. They're not naive punishments at all, and nobody's stupid enough to gamble with that, or lose their license, that is, to lose their license. That's why I'm glad you brought things like this in here. That has been foreseen so far, but now it is further enhanced and on the initiative of the editors themselves. I still have to point out that for this particular article 36, it is well emphasized here that capital cannot be less than a million euros. You know, a million euros can't be everyone's money, it's just a credible company that deals with this job. Such a company certainly won't gamble with a minor entering her toys and eventually losing his license, so even on this basis, I can only congratulate you for introducing something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72795	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72796	You turn everything upside down and put it upside down. I don't mean you specifically, my colleague Djukanovic, but the ruling coalition. We, when we say Zorana Mihajlovic, stole 300m euros and arranged a deal with Bechtel, and could have cost Serbia 300m euros less that job if it was done by Chinese or someone else, not Bechtel, with which she arranged through Scott, you say - and you are against building a highway. That's not true at all. So don't say anything none of us have said. You mention some truly reputed Serbian companies dealing with the production of certain items, and I'm not going to be like you, so I'm making a Punjabi out of it, because it's pointless to make this an example. The law says well that directors of such games, casino owners, should be socially responsible, and that social responsibility is not just shown by them providing these millions of euros in order not to lose their license. You know, it happened that according to the previous laws of the renowned travel agency, money and travel insurance insurance insurance policy in case they cancel the trip or cheat these people, so it turns out in the end that it wasn't enough and that those, here, I, for which some of my colleagues I worked with over 20, 30 years in tourism, have been cheating on thousands of tourists. Let's not replace thesis. Our amendments are truly well-intentioned, so that this area can be arranged in the best possible way and that the state can react at any moment. We don't trust anyone, believe me, to pass five million. Social responsibility, although it says they have to have them, and above all, responsibility for every underage child in this country, should, above all, be given to the competent state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72797	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72798	I have to say, as far as social responsibility goes, they've insisted on it in the earlier years, and I can say even now, right now, right now, the editors than the state itself. So they are the ones who insisted on introducing these social responsibility provisions in the 2011 Law, the organizers are the ones who insisted on introducing a member on social responsibility. So even the state in some segments didn't recognize as much as they did. And our reputed companies, among other things, signed protocols with the Draiser Street Institute, where they send their operators into training to identify the addict. They even have their flyers all over all those toys so the addict can't bet on it, etc. So they have these kinds of warnings, which is very, very good. Once again, a serious company does not want its credibility to collapse in this way. She will insist on social responsibility to remain on the market. That is the point, and the well-being of the law is just that, in the future, such companies are somehow allowed to operate because they are serious, they are the ones who can place that capital. We won't have that black market anymore that essentially led to a juvenile betting because they allowed absolutely everything and thus destroyed the credibility of this entire industry. So this is something that's good, of course I didn't mean to twist anything at all, but I just wanted to explain to people what business it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72799	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72800	It happened, Mr. Minister, and I believe that you remember Mr. Djukanovic too, when it comes to fraud from those who stage gambling, now I mean not only the bookies, but to go back to the period 2009, 2010 and 2011 to the Serbian State lottery and that of Tadic's concubine, Tijana Angelic, was that so? So the DRI found that they did not invest in the Republic of Serbia's budget over 200 million dinars. I think it's $227 million. And you just told Mrs. Radeti that we too should be as MPs if we have knowledge of anything to act as responsible people and by being MPs, did you or anyone else, Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Atlagic, and he also has knowledge of it, filed a criminal report against that person, or if you found out in some town, Serbia is a huge casino, has bookshops at every step, in Kursumlia, in Vranj, in Bačka Topoli, that whoever is responsible in those betting offices allows minors to use these services? Were there any such criminal charges? How many cases are there? You know, I wouldn't just advertise these people from this New Sad hospital, because the private rehab clinic is an addiction, I'm not going to advertise them, astounded by the facts, also mentioned today by colleague Ruzica Nikolic, that the smallest patient was 12, 14 years old. One such case is in Serbia, so it's really scary. The fact that there's such a kind of action, no one's slowing it down. They have to register, they have to place their capital, they have to organize it, but there are many, many abuses, that's exactly what we're talking about. How can we believe that even the one you say the law is excellent, perfect, the first time everything is done, all the prevention to be carried out to the end, if all these cases deny it in the previous period, all the years, not to say now and decades?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72801	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72802	Whether something in the future will deny us or not or confirm us, I don't know. You know, this is a law that you always have to coordinate in the future, given that some new modern trends are emerging, technology is progressing. I don't know if people know, but in Malta today you already have online gambling regulation on social networks, not even more websites, but via Facebook, when you have a bet, they have to legally even regulate it. We haven't reached that level yet, unfortunately, I hope we get there. As for these abuses that were once in the Serbian State lottery, I just have to point out to people, there is a serious difference between so-called. classic games of chance and special games of chance. The classic games of chance, there is a monopoly of the state lottery of Serbia and I must say that it was fragrant for me when I came there to be president of the assembly, how is it possible that this company was minus 120 million dinars? That's something I found fascinating. Everything I've learned and all the documentation I've collected there, I've certainly delivered to the competent state authorities. What our judiciary did is what you have to ask them, but as a socially responsible man, I certainly delivered it, because I thought it was simply an incredible scratching of that institution, which essentially served at the time that someone was taking money for their election campaign. This is how some media who worked for Mr Tadic in the campaign financed themselves, not to say, some different marketing agencies etc. And that's all true. What did the judicial authorities do? I don't know. It was mine to deliver, I did it, and everything else, of course, is on them and on our so-called. "independent justice". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72803	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72804	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to pass the law on gambling and initially explained that it is one of the reasons for adopting, harmonising our legislation with EU rules. The reason for the SRS parliamentary group to carefully analyse these bill proposals, although all the bill proposals are subject to careful analysis by our parliamentary group. We have submitted an amendment to Article 43. A bill of law on gambling. The promoter did not accept the amendment and thus showed irresponsibility, a relationship to the young population in the Republic of Serbia. The essence of the change we have proposed by amendment is that when moving the toy shop to a new location, the editor must attach all the necessary documentation, and especially about meeting the conditions relating to the distance of the toys from schools, both basic and medium. The promoter himself acknowledges that on the territory of the Republic of Serbia there is a constant growth of the gambling market, which in itself speaks a lot about the situation in our society. Those who wish well for school children and youngsters should, in addition to the ban on entering gambling facilities, remove the same objects from their sight. By accepting the amendments to the SRS, he wouldn't burden the text of the law. On the contrary, it would lead to a precise solution in the interests of school children and youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72805	Thank you. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72806	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this article 47 speaks of repair and maintenance of devices, props used in gambling. In particular, here in this case are gambling tables. I'm not from that gambling story, though, and I don't know which specific tables to think about, whether it's for roulette, I guess it's not those tables that fill the tickets, because I asked to see that these tables should be attested. I asked for a little bit of a better and more precise way to define this member of the law, because from my colleagues in the SRS we had the opportunity to hear that there are and that gambling is a large number of possible abuses, and there is a saying that – where the money is, there is always a trap. So it's just like if we found it on the road, we'd run into some fresh bills, and we wouldn't bend over and take it. That's why this needs to be better defined, so that any abuses can be reduced to a minimum. Those abuses have always been. Here, colleague Filip Stojanović spoke here, reminded me, he remembered the example well, about seven, eight years ago, when it was already done, we had that prize game that went on in direct transmission, the lowest single offer, it must have been cars, or whatever, and then there was a situation in several consecutive cars, the extractions in the same people, or at the same round of people went to those gains, and then the editor suspected what it was. In fact, the bottom line is that these guys broke into the software that they're doing it and, therefore, only from this example can it be seen that abuses are possible here. Therefore, the law must be as precise and clear as possible in order to prevent all abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72807	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72808	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the previous discussion, I presented some statistics on juvenile gambling, which are alarming, and I would add that 80% of adolescents gambled at least once during their lives and that 35% of students of the primary secondary schools, and these are children aged 14 and 15, if they had gambled once by then. What's a growing problem is that addictions have become increasingly common in young people who don't even have to go to casinos or bookies to bet. The availability of online games and bookies, then, machines and roulette are available online, and in order to bet you don't need any ID cards, and you don't even have to go to bookies. Parents don't even assume their children gamble online. We believe that the ban on participation in gambling needs to be further expanded and that gambling directors must be socially responsible and directed towards protecting minors. The ban on participation in gambling needs to be further expanded and we have asked the amendment to ban also apply to members of the families of gambling directors, but also to members of the family employed by gambling directors, as this will reduce possible abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72809	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72810	Mr. Minister, I don't mean to offend you, but I have to ask you if you have read this Bill proposal and a specific title above article 59, which reads -- spatial conditions, and a member of 59th in the room where special gambling on machines is held must be at least five machines for gambling on the same manufacturer's happiness. If it were defined by this member that the room should be these dimensions so that it could at least cost five devices from the same editor, I would understand it as spatial conditions, and here there can't be any such title of that member in any way. But it doesn't matter that much. We have suggested, the SRS believes that this member should be changed and said - there must be at least three machines of the same processor in the room where special gambling is being organised. What made us define ourselves to go with a smaller number of machines than it is in this bill? Well, for the simple reason that a small number of machines would speed up competition and try to limit the monopoly over this species. You're saying that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that establishing a minimum number of machines affects the stability of the gambling industry. True, we Serbian radicals would much prefer to talk about other industries here, but since we have these gambling and betting games, then we have to define this, or it has to be prescribed by law. We also suggest the smallest number of automatics from the same game director, only smaller than you suggested. We support these restrictions and prescribed conditions for providing money in the event of these games being arranged, but we believe, for purely practical reasons, that the number of machines in one room of the same editor should be smaller than that provided by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72811	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72812	Article 64 speaks of video surveillance. And now it's scheduled to be watched alive in those bookies, in those toys. The data obtained on the basis of this recording shall represent the internal documentation of the editor and the business secret, and the editor may only use them for the purpose for which they have been collected and cannot be granted to third parties etc. To what end, this article 64 in its six, seven views does not foresee at all. Could this be misused? You got it. Is it necessary to know the situation in those rooms where gambling is held at all times? It should, it is not disputed, but it cannot be in compliance with the regulations governing the protection of personal data. That's why we intervened with the amendment. You can't, however, have introduced municipal police officers, these bus plus bus tickets, so municipal inspection, so everyone living in Serbia can legitimize, although only police representatives can do it. But you simply don't care about the protection of personal data and you can see it in this law and in this article. In this way, you will not, because you record anyone coming in, who comes out, and you keep it, it seems to me, for 30 days, that you will achieve nothing. First, those data should be stored for more than 30 days. Unfortunately, there's a lot going on in those bookies, in those casinos. It happens that there are both drug addicts and alcoholics and that after who knows how long they're involved in some crime, etc. That's all that's happening to us and what we know from life. Then you can't just formalize this, so, let there be, there's someone recording it, wipes it out in a month, and where you've been, nowhere, what you've been doing, nothing. It is not a way to protect what we insist on, above all, protect minors from gambling. We can't look through it all, here, gambling brings big funds to the budget, so come on. A fellow Djukanovic tells us it's all somewhere in the white world. Well, somewhere in the white world, drugs are sold as the most normal stuff. Well, are we going to go, to reach that level of civilization, so let's say -- can drugs be sold on kiosks? We cannot thus look up to this modern world, which in some parts went to a complete extreme in that so-called. Contemporaryity. It's not the point, it's not the solution. We are aware and repeat that gambling exists in Serbia, that people like to gamble. There's something else that people are poorer to resort to games of chance. It's also something that is generally known and found to be so. And that's why, not just these gambling games that we're talking about, as a little bit more about bookies, and so, you have on every kiosk of those scratches where people get so miserable about giving up 100 dinars, they're promised they might get two million, and maybe they won't get anything, and most of the time they do. Of course, we can't get away from it, but we can bring it down to a minimum by law. Someone's got to control it, too. It can't be that scratch of a million-dollar leaf, and there's only one win of 5,000 dinars, for example. It's gotta be done under some kind of control. You let it go, just that someone out there, someone holding those bookies, those gambling games, so you know who's holding it, you know whose control it is, so we're not gonna fill our pockets as much as the budget. Our obligation and our task is primarily to protect the mental health of young people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72813	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72814	Thank you. Now I don't know what you meant specifically when you said that in the white world. I am pleased that we are harmonising certain legal provisions with the countries that have far gone into this. With Great Britain, with Malta in particular, Malta has the best legislation, with the United States, after all, if you will. It's just that it wouldn't happen to us to find out or rather to interpret who owns the capital of a certain bookshop or whatever, so this law leads to you always knowing the end result, or who the owner is, and that there wouldn't be money laundering. All of the world's companies that do this business and how they do amazing checks to see if someone doesn't accidentally finance terrorism, whether they launder money, whether it's crime money and so on, and so on. This is a serious industry, and this is something that we're introducing that I would really, really welcome. That story about the more poor you have, the more gambling you have, so I wouldn't agree. In Las Vegas or, I don't know, in Makau or Atlantic City, I didn't really notice that there's an orphanage there, and you have the biggest possible bet, mostly the rich world uses it. So it's not true. It's usually the urban legend with us that only the poor go and bet on it, too. On the contrary, it is more a monster in rich people and they spend more money and become much more addicts than the poor world. If even somewhere you should resort to protection, it is precisely when you have rich people who, unfortunately, are ready to take their entire estate and what they have acquired, in a way, dissipate and bring their family into serious trouble. Once again, it is good that on social responsibility, this law now states that companies are obliged to send their operators to training in medical institutions to identify an addict and thus prevent any addict from going into a situation to spend everything he has or to destroy himself. It is further enhanced by such rigidity, but even more rigid control is being introduced against whether minors will bet or not, i.e. it is being disabled entirely. I have to say, so there's no chance of you bringing a child today, I'm saying... Say, you went to the store and you wanted to pay for the ticket, there's no way that you could bring the kid into the bookies with you to fill the ticket. So it's strictly forbidden, even by the internal acts of these companies themselves, and for that you can lose your license. So let's not make a bauk where he's not around. Of course, there is this danger, especially now is the danger of online betting, and there we have to work even more on that protection, but it's done a lot here, but certainly, as far as this law is concerned, that only credible large companies can deal with this business, we won't have any problem with juvenile betting, and I think it's a big, big advantage of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72815	Thank you, colleague Djukanovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72816	I demand a public promise from my colleague Djukanovic, if I order him to bring me a photo of someone with a minor face, i.e. with a child entering a bookie, that someone will lose their license. My people, I don't tell fairy tales. What I just said, there's no man in Serbia who hasn't seen it. As for this first part of the debate, my colleague Djukanovic, you've mixed up some of the grandmothers and frogs. You're talking about Malta, Las Vegas, so do you know who lives there, what social class in Malta and Las Vegas is going to gamble? That's where the people who spend 50, 100 thousand euros for fun, don't have any problem with it because they don't know how much money they have. We're talking 200 and 500 dinar tickets. We're talking about those scratches. That's what I've been talking about, where I've seen people once, older people with obviously small pensions who from the last 500 dinars to pensions give 200 for that one right there that scratches, counting maybe God will give them 1,000 dinars. You don't know that's happening. That's what we talk about and talk about, of course, we repeat, about protecting young people from these monsters. What you say -- it says there in the acts of those reputed, as you say, the house that deals with the cube. What if it says in their acts? Who's applying that? It doesn't apply. Here, I ask you all, as many of you as there are now in the O.R., a little while, to say, to disprove me, and to say, I have never in my life, in the last three months, seen or not have I seen a child enter the bookies. They're coming in, it's happening. That when a kid walks in, says a colleague, he won't, it's forbidden to go to the market with a kid or a store, so you can go in with a kid in a bookie. It's less of a sin to go in with a seven, eight-year-old kid in a bookie, to fill a ticket, than a 13-year-old kid comes in alone. We fight it, and when a child enters with a parent who fills a ticket there, it's certainly much less evil than what we claim to exist and what no law can, in itself, solve, unless there's any serious interest, and unless there's enough inspection, unless the police are... I'm telling you again, I've personally watched, a cop, five meters away from me, looking at and seeing what I've seen, seeing a young man and a girl, still holding hands, not getting into a bookie for 13, 14 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72817	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72818	I don't mind. A lot of people don't really understand this area, and you're a little confused, but I don't blame you because I know you have the best intentions possible. First of all, when you talk about pensioners buying a reef, it's classic gambling, it doesn't belong to what you're saying about bookies. That's something tenths altogether. The one who buys a lottery ticket or buys a scratcher is something the state has a monopoly on. So why is someone going to buy it? Mostly for fun, pensioners are the most users of classic gambling. The younger faces, the younger generations use more so-called. special gambling games, i.e. that casino and bookshops, and there must be much more work. I would ask you, since I'm very well aware of it, any operator who would allow a minor to bet on a threat is fired and there's almost no chance, unless it's a bookie that works illegally, and then we're all obliged to report it because the emm is doing illegally, em, allowing minors. So I'm talking about completely different categories. The illegal market is really quite a rule of problem for legal editors and it's a big problem for the state. This law prevents it all the way, and it's a good thing that this law is passed, and it's going to absolutely, I'm telling you, the issue of juvenile gambling, at least as far as the Earth's so-called. betting, absolutely neutralizing. There is a danger of online, online, and there may be serious problems. Secondly, you mentioned the Atlantic City, Las Vegas, etc., you mentioned Malta, but you don't have anything like that in Malta. Malta is a country that otherwise lives on giving licenses for online gambling. The entire industry, or entire economy, comes down to the area. Las Vegas, Atlantic City and Macao are the gambling zones Putin introduced. In the Russian Federation, there are six gambling zones, Crimea is one of them, among other things, where absolutely all the rich people who want to gamble went there. The same thing Turkey did with Northern Cyprus, so it collects huge revenues, but also how they make such legal rules that you can't abuse these casinos to dissipate someone. They have serious laws and we're on our way to absolutely something like this through a law like this, and now we're gonna bring it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72819	Thank you, colleague Djukanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72820	I certainly don't understand myself to that extent in gambling, as my colleague Djukanovic, because I've never been in the lottery during the day, let alone at night. But still, I'm everything I said, my colleague repeated it in some other way. I didn't say that pensioners go to bookies, although they do, of course, I was talking about pensioners when it comes to those scratches, and that's what your colleague said. I said that underage children go to fill those betting tickets and then fellow Djukanovic says - but really if someone sees an illegal bookie they should report. And how do I or any citizen who passes by know that some bookie is illegal? It's all glued up, all that glass glued up, if anyone's coming to control it. Look around the city, all the hairdressers, the cosmetologists, those people who make less money, they all took off those ads and those advertising photos from the window, because it's been decided that at the city level to pay some, say, huge taxes, they can't take it and rather take those ads off than pay that tax, and the bookies every, wall, that glass from the corner to the corner are all glued. And now someone who goes through there to come in and say what - if you're legal or illegal, if you're illegal, I'm going to report you. Is it possible for you to bring down the work of state authorities, the work of local self-government authorities, for inspection? Are you missing an inspection? That's what we tell you a million times. In every area where you need inspectors, hire inspectors, but let them really work. What do you need the municipal police for? What do you need the militia for? Why don't you translate everything that's capable of regular police into regular police and why don't you do your job more seriously and why isn't there a cop at every turn, and why isn't he doing his job every step of the way? Of course, I don't want to say right now that our police aren't doing anything, no one's doing anything in the state, but I'm saying enough that it's 10% that way. Is there anyone, a colleague of Djukanovic, in this country who has anything to do with Serbia that is trying to find out what's going on in life, in the people, etc., who doesn't know that there are cops who are dealing with drug dealers, who are dealing with gambling directors, who are dealing with various people who deal with illegal affairs? I repeat, it's not generally all cops, but it's just enough that these jobs can be done uninterruptedly and illegally.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72821	Thank you. Right on line, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72822	Well, how do you know if it's illegal or if it's got permission from the ministry? There's a gambling board website. It used to be with the IRS, for my completely abnormal reason why it was with the IRS, but it's good to have the IAS back now. On the site, you have a list of all locations where the state has granted permission to stage gambling, and you can first see whether something is legal or not. On the other hand, I'm telling you, as soon as you see there's a minor somewhere and he's allowed inside and you know it's illegal, feel free to report it. Of course, the state should react, but the state is responding by the end of the day. It is our duty each and every one of us to protect our children. If you see any minors in any bookies that he's deposited a ticket or that he's sitting there, etc., report that place. That operator is definitely going to get fired at his firm, I don't have any dilemma. After all, maybe it's an illegal bookie so let the state come to close because it's really not normal for such a thing to exist. This law, once again, will absolutely introduce that inability to stage these illegal games of chance. It's a very good thing of this law. Only someone who is credible, who has capital and who has the ability to pay, will be able to organize and be on the market. Those who so far have hunted in the cloudy will either have to withdraw or be eventually shut down, processed, arrested anyway. So, I would ask you, these are two ways to know that something is illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72823	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72824	A colleague of Djukanovic, but a colleague of mine, I'm really surprised that you just said that the state authorities are acting on the application. Have you ever heard of acting on official duty? Have you ever heard that inspectors have an obligation, different, not only when it comes to these gambling games, that they have an obligation to tour, to control? You're telling me I have a lucky list of all the facilities on my game site. What now, I need to open a website now, find all the addresses of gambling and get going, and what about when I get there? Here, as a messenger of the people, I come and say, I am a messenger of the people, give me your papers to see? Do you even hear yourself say what you're saying? I realized earlier, Mr. Sinisa Mali, that Mr. Djukanovic had just turned his attention to you to inform the management of your income, to inform various types of inspections that gambling has a site and that then your employees can see all these addresses, and then let them visit and see those who are not at the address, so let them establish what fellow Djukanovic has been trying to convince me that I should be a national MP to deal with or any of us. You know, we have a slightly different view of the role of the MP. The second is how you behave, especially yours per bar, maybe it's a little harder in Belgrade. You know, your people's MPs are God and a beating in a small neighborhood, and that's why it's a big deal for them, for those of you who know they're not going to be MPs again, how to come back as ordinary people, as ordinary citizens, to return to their environments. They can open up there, and shut down, hire, replace prosecutors and judges and save God what I can't do. But, don't, we're talking about a MP under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we're talking about the government, the inspections, the ministries and the obligations of the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72825	Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72826	I really had no intention of you reacting this way. There's no need. Of course the state is controlling it, the inspectors are going, they're doing it. I must welcome the actions that took place in 2014 and 2015 where they closed a huge part of the illegal market. You know, the biggest problem and most common occurs in some areas or in villages where someone opens a bookie. There's no simple inspector who can go check it out. Your duty is in some way to point out, you know, there's someone who illegally stages gambling, so the inspectors come and close it. I think it's some elemental order. It's not your responsibility, it's certainly your goodwill if you want to do it and help the state. I think that's just fine. I have to say that the state has really worked really hard, worked intensively to shut down those illegal directors, even though I think that about 30 percent of the market, has contained the gray market in 2014 and 2015, that they were terrible resistances, but the state has done so well. But you can't absolutely control every settlement, every section in this country, because we're just a big country, and you have a lot of those who do that, let's say even by house they play illegal poker, they play all kinds of things. So if you find out again, at least that's what I'm doing. I have to say, when I hear and see a worker working on black somewhere, I report that employer because it's abnormal for him to keep that worker black and not pay anyone a tax. I feel like an MP that it's my duty and I invite anyone who has a good will and, after all, to prevent that juvenile bet, that if he finds out somewhere there's something like that to report. Now, it's up to you whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72827	Thank you, colleague Djukanovic, thank you and Verica Radeti. (The Faith of Radet: You challenge me to answer, do not call me.) No, you haven't answered, let's move on. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Faith of Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72828	Here, they say, look at her again...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72829	You don't have time to apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72830	No, I'm just talking to my colleague Djukanovic and I see that you want this replica to continue. I don't mind if I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72831	I can't give you my word now. You don't have time. I just checked.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72832	I'm replicating my colleagues to Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72833	But I've moved on to the second amendment, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72834	No, it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72835	I did, at Sarovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72836	You're not real.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72837	I did, I did. Believe me, I did, everyone heard. Here, and Rose Nikolic confirms it to me. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 80th amendment. The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72838	Well, here's the debate about any extra time requested by a colleague of the Faith Radet. I don't think anything's gonna fail in a minute or two. Just to clarify this, since counterpart Djukanovic has acquired certain knowledge for me in a magical way, he has become an expert in this area. It would be interesting if he were to take a detour with Veronica Radet, who's an excellent lawyer, but that has something to do with betting. In this article 80, something that is very interesting, which is that the Minister, or the Ministry of Finance, prescribes most of the conditions under which bookmakers can function. Now it's important some things with the minister, if possible, if it's the own ministry to do it, and that's the external appearance of the bookies. You know it's visually isolated from the environment. So these are rooms where the artificial light is, where the one that enters such a space is he has no idea of time, it's just like mega markets where when you go in, you have no idea what time it is. In the mega market, you have no idea how much it's gonna cost you, but you're ashamed to go out with a half-empty, that big basket, and here that factor and how important it is. Why am I saying this, Minister? Because there's no reason for that space to be isolated from the environment visually, and that's usually some stickers, something that has no contact, you can't see from the outside who's inside in most cases. It contributes that this control cannot be complete when it comes to the bookies, when it comes to those premises. It wouldn't be bad if the law didn't specify what that space should look like, it wouldn't be bad for the ministry to suggest when it comes to these spaces that there is also this external control, conditionally speaking, visual control and other that there is a sense of this man staying in that space of time. When you're in a closed space you have an artificial light, you have no idea how much time it spends especially when it comes to places like this that are bookies where adrenaline or expectations are increased and then you completely draw attention to something that should happen. That's why I'm asking the minister if the Ministry of Finance or any other ministry can define that space in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72839	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to article 87. The amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic to Article 87. National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to the 95th amendment. Sir, Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72840	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The SRS intervention on Article 95 paragraph 7 where we proposed that the costs of testing the reliability of the technical and functional characteristics of the information system be borne by the processor itself. Dear fellow MPs, here we want to underline that the problem of gambling is much wider than the legal norm, because the country here also has its own game and its own interest. So I accept what you said in the principle debate, my esteemed colleague, Bojic, that gambling is a golden coke state. The state's interest is to increase budgets, double taxation with certain severances and increased taxes and taxes. So the state has a double relationship, to protect the citizens and to better control the processing games. There is also a need to develop this area of planning and that market, although I think some measures have been delayed. I welcome increased control over game directors because this sphere is full of people with a criminal background. If gambling is really going to be the golden coke of the state, it remains to be seen and it depends on it itself. I have not without reason cited all the harmful consequences of gambling that play with people's fates, and the diversity of gambling is so great that in a moment a man is brought to the gates of hell.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72841	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. Member of the 97th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72842	There have been a lot of words in public, Mr. Minister, that you are here right now to clarify the use of funds that flow into the budget, which are in the national gambling register. A colleague, Djukanovic, told Mrs Radeti, that she had confused games of chance, so-called. Light games of chance, because you here have some coalition partners who separate and light from heavy drugs, right. They're not present right now, but they're sitting here on our right, they're your big coalition partners in Novi Sad and so on. People who play, therefore, are not rare cases, and “Loto” as one popular game, suffer from addiction disease. Believe me, Dr. Laketić, that a man who has a family, such is one case in the New Sad disease treatment centre, has been paying hundreds of thousands of dinars a week for "Loto" combinations. He started with this one, as long as it takes, and then he goes and says, well, there's a small probability that the numbers one, two, three, four, five, six, seven are going to be a win-win combination, or those numbers, but when he's going to borrow, he's going to be in debt with the greeners. All those people who did it, many of them are still in trouble today, being chased by these greens. Here, unfortunately it happened in Kragujevac a few days ago that one young man took his own life because he borrowed money from those greens for someone else and couldn't get it back. Who knows at this point, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak here, it's weekend, Friday afternoon, it's gotten into some kind of arrangement. It's not really rare for minors to do that and to borrow money from their peers from schools who have wealthy parents, who draw them into that sort of thing. We are particularly interested, since this law, which also mentioned counterpart Djukanovic from 2011 is precisely how much of the revenue from the budget is given for the Red Cross, for persons with disabilities and for all other categories, what structure from the revenues going to the Republic of Serbia's budget to be given for certain categories, since it is not specified here for all of them. We insist that since it is huge money, because all the media that reported when this law was passed and when it was adopted by the National Assembly, when the government adopted it, the state will have much more income than gambling. Now we're wondering if you're going to give a percentage of that income increase, for example, for example, here, that's the most important thing, for children who are suffering from rare diseases.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72843	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The right is not a replica, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72844	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a part of my colleague here that's right, and I have to say it in particular, but we have to distinguish some things and the law here clearly defines, there are classics, there are special games of chance. The classic gambling that the colleague spoke of means "Loto", "Bingo", are exclusively monopolies by the state. Only the state has the right to perform them. So what's the problem? It's true, someone who spends a lot of money to buy, I don't know how many hundreds of lottery tickets, which, in my opinion, is completely insane and pointless, and why? Because you have lottery terminals almost in every bar. And that's the problem, now how to keep someone like that from buying it. He can't buy a minor, because he's required to have his ID. That's why he can't pay for it, but I guess there are serious abuses there and somehow it has to be prevented. But it's not the same thing as a bookie, you can't do it in a bookie. So there's no such thing as a possibility, as it can be done right over those lotto machines. I'm calling on the state, no matter what it's a pretty big state income, because I'm saying, these games have only the right of the state to perform, no one else, she's the only one who has that kind of monopoly, and it would be completely insane if someone else could do it, because then they would fail. So I'm calling on the state to somehow do it to protect the users themselves. It's hard to prevent addiction, just because you don't have that kind of control like you can do at the bookies or at the casinos. So that's where I can agree with you, and that's where we all have to work more on that social responsibility. As for these, the law, otherwise, now foresees much greater separations for all these social categories and that's something that makes me more happy. Both sports and Red Cross and hospitals and schools and various playgrounds will be financed, etc. which, of course, is going to be built out of these pairs, so this is something that is quite positive and I absolutely welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72845	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, although you agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72846	I don't want to agree to the final part of the exhibition, colleagues of Djukanovic, because it's something, promising, my mother, it's going to be like that. I cannot believe it, as no citizen of Serbia and parents who need help for children treated, disabled and all others, while you, only if Mr Martinovic knows that next week we will have a proposal from the Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend and supplement the Law on the Budget System. If it's going to be on the agenda, with this change, that it's precisely known from the appraisal that flows into the Republic of Serbia's budget so much for one, for another, for the third category, and then we, Serbian radicals, are going to submit amendments and we're going to ask for more for children to be treated, and we're going to ask for more and more for disabled country war, and we're going to ask for more and more for all those endangered categories, because you're constantly praising gentlemen and now here, you're getting bigger income from games fortunately that the fuller budget is being filled. There's money, everything can be done, if you give us a chance, nice, next week we'll talk about it and we'll give you suggestions which categories this increased income should go from games to luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72847	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Vladimir Djukanovic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72848	I don't mind, however you want to deal with it and distribute it, only there's always a problem that someone will be unhappy and it's always been a problem so far, because when you give one more, then the others come, they say – wait, why don't you give us more. So that's the biggest problem with the distribution of funds, but it's important, what's most important, is that they're going to be significantly higher now, and that you can use that money significantly more and you can distribute it to people who are, above all, threatened, from disabled people to people who are seriously ill, to use more to treat children. You can, of course, agree with the state, or make that distribution any way anyone wants. I'm saying, the biggest problem is that distribution when someone's just always unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72849	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72850	Mr. Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance, I really must now commend you, Mr. Minister, for the interventions of the SRS, you have brought the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now, really, the only thing I don't understand is how these advances voted for the final budget of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and before that, Vojislav Kostunica and all those ministers who robbed and stole, not to mention cases of donation from various ministries, money laundering, Pajtic stole, this Tijana Angelić, this Duško Petrovic, right, Blazo, 10% or already 20%, you voted, Sinisa had to, excuse us, you know how much we respect you, and that was, you had to propose it to the National Assembly, what you will see, how much they robbed and stole. But the National Assembly voted with a vast majority of votes, and you agreed with all those robberies that they did. Now, if that weren't the case, let me tell you Mr. Djukanovic, that during Mladjan Dinkic, who you protected and whose crime is being committed by the federal administration customs office, the National Bank and all those institutions, after October 5th, unfortunately, is soon out of date, because it's been almost 20 years, and you haven't prosecuted him, for what he did, he didn't respect it since 2011, when it was determined that 40% of those categories of persons are already given letters from all these people, associations and those who seek that money, that the money was paid in a certain amount and not strictly respected the percentage that the law established. That's why it's very important that we know, it's also said by the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, where every dinar goes, so he doesn't grab his head like he did at the press conference, when he said I have no idea where 20% of the health budget goes. He says to kill me now, I don't know where that money goes. That's what the man said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72851	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 100th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the gambler is by definition the man who chose to live with hope. So when you come in to gamble, most people want to take someone else's money. Most of those who gamble, almost gambling, are going to take someone else's money. And at least 50% of the cases, they lose their money, but the bookies are skilled. I'm watching their action on sports grounds, very interesting, like they support sports. I wish that their intentions were true, but I think it's an ad for the future, that's how they catch clients for betting. So best around the sports court to put a bookie commercial, etc., and everyone who plays, athletes, and even viewers, and see that ad, so they want to increase their money, and usually squeeze their wallet. What I would suggest in the future is that the activity is called “correcting the wrong spine and preventing flat feet”. That would be my task, and above all, to those who stage games of chance or better put these bookies and sports forecasts. Since it's about sports, I'd like to single out a dinar or two of each ticket for the development of school sport. But without advertising around the playground, and the bookies, without catching future clients, etc. on the topic of throwing some tournaments, etc., a little rebuilding basketball court or a field for small football, then people come to watch and play, and that's how bookies get into the future of new clients or new clients. And if they really want to help, I think it would be okay for the bookies and the sports prognosis, to introduce a commitment, a dinar or two per ticket, to a school sport, and in such a way to raise more millions of amounts that would be invested in school sport and prevent it from being the wrong spines, that is to say, as small and flat feet as possible, which would contribute to the future, and that our army has a further future, that there are young boys who are going to be recruited.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72853	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 103. Here you go, Professor. I'll bend.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 103 speaks of a limited number of prize games that the editor can perform during a calendar year. I asked the amendment to delete this restriction, especially as it comes to a specific prize game, and the law states that for each of these games, the individual editor must receive individual consent from the competent administration. So the administration has control over this process anyway, and I think it's absolutely not celibate to limit the number of award-winning games over a calendar year. Since the prize game is being held, first of all for advertising purposes it's completely pointless, because reality shows that this type of prize games can't be everything and that the director wills, can't have more than three, four, five maximum six in the course of one calendar year and due to the need to avoid this possibility. Another thing about which there were no words and which, in my opinion, the legislator dropped, which is to expand the circle of people who are not allowed to participate in certain gamblings, and it says that these games are fortunately unable to attend the employees of the editors. I believe that this round should also be extended to members of the family of those who are employed by game directors. Imagine a prize game that is drawn by an envelope or from another place by an envelope, and let's say he sent his envelope to a son or one of the close relatives of that person who is right now pulling that envelope out and we know and it's clear to everyone that there are possible major abuses, so I think this circle should be extended to members of the family of those who are employed by the editors.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72855	Thank you, Professor Saviæ. The amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72856	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these inspections to go to 13 sports clubs and this "New Sport". So, to go there and for every hour, I think illegal re-emission programs take 1,000 dinars for school sport. I hope my colleagues understood me last time. I admired the SOS channel so much that Dragisa Kovacevic was suggested to be in REM, since the man knows all these television techniques, etc., emission techniques, programs, sports, etc., I suggested that he be a candidate for the REM Council on behalf of the parliamentary group. Unfortunately for me, and I also think, unfortunately, many viewers and subscribers of the radio-television program did not pass because it represents similar ideas that I am representing, that it should prevent false cross-border television from allegedly re-emissioning the programme, in fact broadcasting it from Belgrade. At the "Sport Club" you are told – good evening from the Belgrade studio. Now I'm asking our viewers and I'm asking all of us -- if re-emissioning by law is at the same time taking over a program that's being broadcast abroad, no changes, no additions, no endings, how is Solak building a programme in Belgrade? How come we're watching the Luxembourg-Serbia game at the Sports Club as a re-programmed programme, simultaneously taken over, when, say, Solak didn't buy any rights for Luxembourg at all? Therefore, it cannot re-air the programme because it does not broadcast a sports broadcast there that should be seen by Luxembourg viewers, and it is re-transmissioned to us by circumstances. There can't be re-emissions when there's no initial broadcast. With that in mind, I would have prescribed that sports television, cross-border sports television, reportedly give out nicely across the border for an hour or so, let's say 1,000 dinars for school sport. Well, when 13 "Sport clubs" and "Euro sport" take the bread SOS channel and "Arenas", home to these channels, and let them pay nicely for school sport, let me repeat, that our children would not have the wrong spine, flat soles, etc. so that they would have new Djokovics, new Djokovics, new Vukotics, so that we don't get angry with the partisans and the stars, the new Kicanovics, the new Slavnics, etc., it would be our turn for them to single out a little for school sport, since they don't even pay bread in this country. So REM doesn't pay anything to RATEL, they don't pay anything to Sokoya, and when you move on to some transfer to look at halftime, Gilas's and Solakov's commercials go, so it's time to take a little bit off for school sport. So by some law, 1,000 dinars per hour, so nice sports television for 24 hours, 24,000 dinars, times 13 televisions, that comes to him about 300,000 dinars a day, times 365 days. Here, the finance minister calculated very quickly that it's about 110,000 million dinars. That's a million euros for school sports. When we unify it with those two dinars per ticket, it means a bet on a hundred dinars, a hundred dinar ticket separates two dinars from each ticket, who makes what he pays there in the sports forecast in betting, from every bet of two dinars, and here's no money for school sport. Why am I saying this? Because I remember that SOS channel, sports television, had a series of activities related to school sports, amateur sports, and so on, that's gone. In a certain way, we need to find a regulation, whether by regulation or by some new law, we need to find a way to support the school sport on the burden of those who earn money thanks to sports betting, and in such a way, at least to reduce the consequences of that gambling, that the gambler who goes to gamble to know when he lost at the betting, even if his two dinars per ticket went to school sport. As long as we're putting up with these School TVs to watch them, and we have to watch them because they're breaking the law, so the national TV team that covers all of Serbia needs to be broadcast. These violation laws pass on the team and we can't all see, and when we can't all see, even if we know we took 1,000 dinars per hour to them, sports channels that re-emitting the programme on Serbia's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72857	Thank you. Member of the 121st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72858	In this part of the law deals with the supervision and jurisdiction of the administration in the exercise of supervision and in particular, we see something in this article that is not good. It is not good that if the inspectors determine that the supervised entity, i.e. the gambling editor, has certain irregularities, it can actually work with all these irregularities for about three months because the administration is scheduled to adopt a solution within 60 days of the day of the submission of the minutes. When the minutes are delivered, let's say, in ten days, or the supplementary minutes, and then ten more days, where the supervised entity is ordered that within 15 days, it means removing those irregularities from that day. So three months can work without consequences with all irregularities identified by the competent inspector. This also says that you, as in many laws, don't tell everyone that we're discussing here, are somehow not getting into the essence. This, as it seems, when the authority is read can really work – see, this law has covered everything, it deals with all segments, and this will finally be some good solution. And as soon as a bit of scratches are seen there are a lot of gaps, but we want an answer to one essential question, we've asked it more than once today. You in power have been talking for several years about some big crime about Serbia's lottery, about some Tijana Angelic who was something, I don't know what Boris Tadic was supposed to be talking about, that the money she stole from the lottery shared with him. Our question is, has it finally been examined? Many years have passed since you were dealing with these details, so we should also know if Tijana Angelic really stole that money, did she share it with Boris Tadic? If she did, did she answer and how she responded, and if she didn't, who made up that story? We believe that the story isn't made up, but as in all other cases where it's spoken and where it's known about crime, you cover it up yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72859	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Member of the 128th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 131. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72860	Here, just here to add, since a little before there was a story that the bookies and gambling offices were the privileges of the poor, since I've been dealing with this problem a little bit, I'd like to say that the Americans bet the most. America is not a poor country and Las Vegas has more casinos than half of Europe, although there are many states in the United States where the cube is considered a serious crime. Now about the amendment. I asked the amendment for a misdemeanor procedure not to be initiated, nor to lead to an expiry of a period of five years from the date on which the offence was committed. It's not a controversial deadline that the law provides and lawyers know better than I do. For me, to whom this is not a profession, it is more normal that in practice these cases of obsolescence do not appear, and this is not only the case with this law, this is also the case with much more serious things, such as severe abuses of official status, and in some cases also crimes. Since there are a lot of cases like this, I wonder what prosecutors, lawyers, judges, citizens' protectors are doing? Almost daily, we can hear that this case or that case is obsolete, and it is serious crimes, which suggests serious corruption. I know that this government has inherited a huge number of unsolved cases and that they are physically unable to solve these cases in time. However, it is clear that there are priorities and the Ministry of Justice must act in line with the fact that in the future, such cases would not become obsolete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72861	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic to Article 131. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Professor Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72862	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, this Article 136 speaks of the deadlines within which sublegal acts must be adopted. The law stipulates that it is 120 days, or four months. I felt that this deadline should be reduced, that it should be shorter, that it should be 90 days, because the purpose of the adoption of each law is that it should be applied as soon as possible in practice and that it produces a legal fact, as lawyers say. But here in the government's explanation it says that there are a lot of these sublegal acts, that this is serious matter, which I can agree with, but, look, you've gotten involved in these European laws, and this is not the only law where it's late with sublegal acts and God forbid you bring sublegal acts within these 120 days that you've prescribed here, but in some other cases, we know that in some other laws, this lasts instead of 60, 90 days or six months, and there's a situation where certain acts are never passed, and then, in that way, the law itself remains a dead letter on paper. So if you're already predicting this deadline to be as big as you've listed here, then respect that. Is this serious matter, I repeat again, I agree, but you're simply bringing it back within the time limit that you predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72863	Thank you, Professor Saviæ. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72864	The gamemakers were already aware that this law was being prepared. It has been two years since a version was original and, in our opinion, it is inappropriate for Serbian radicals to now be given such a time-limit for them to comply with all their actions with the applicable regulations. We have asked this amendment to be maximum for a year, so 12 months, because lately, when many laws are passed, you are giving some deadlines that, according to us, are inappropriately long to bring certain sublaws into line or that those to whom the law refers would adjust their business. There are 1,800 bookies in Serbia, 2,300 slot clubs and two casinos. I think about that data is correct. They all need to adapt their business to this law for a year at the latest. However, what is very important at the end of the debate, we are at the end of the details of the Law on Games of Happiness, not that it is not the essence that the country's general income in the budget increases, but that this area is arranged so that everyone who is in violation of this law is processed and processed, because these 1,800 bookmakers and 2,300 slot clubs are located in the area of Serbia, where you complain that you do not have enough inspectors, where there are not enough resources to work, where conditions are like this or such. Well, you know, and in some places in certain towns in Serbia, where it may be more configurative to approach them, there are bookies like this, and how can we be sure that minors will not go in there and that just the ones responsible in those bookies won't give them such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72865	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 138. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 140th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not easily give up on this school sport and sports television that they encourage and how they encourage, not to mention me now, so I don't advertise these bookies, so I won't do any harm, because young people and how they believe me, so I can do a lot of damage to the bookies, sue me, so I won't mention the names of the bookies, but on those cross-border channels mostly at half-time and before the game, you can see the ads of our bookies, the bookies in Serbia. They're major commercials that are like those commercials on the playground, that and that bookie, so they were doing the playground. In fact, they are, in a way, what our common people say, my peasants, Milia is not there, and he would say, lure the future clientele. So, a little bit arranged there around the parks some playground and now as a bookie they and that and in such a way they point themselves out, so whoever misses the basket can hit a bookie nearby, and so it doesn't happen, I suggest that, when these cross-border TVs, which they don't pay to God, they broadcast ads via the CAS media, which is a United Media member, where N1, Nova, 13 sports clubs etc., means, these fake cross-border televisions don't pay REM, em don't pay RATEL, em are used to pump money, because the Šolak money from the subscription to fake cross-border televisions, in Luxembourg doesn't pay anything, because they don't broadcast the program there, and in Serbia they don't pay anything because they't pay the program in Luxembourg, so they're just recasting it here. It can only be done in the state of Serbia, because right away Solak takes a shit - not freedom of the media, Tanja Fajon, who comes in on behalf of... receive Gilas there in Brussels and immediately lift the crap -- they are not free media in Serbia, etc., and they are so free, they are not even registered. When we were opposition, we dreamed of registering television, and these have unregistered television, over 20 channels, and they say that the media is not free, from social jokes, etc. And that I'm not talking, but the fact is that these fake cross-border sports televisions, mostly in the middle of the day, are putting in commercials for those bookies, so when they're already putting in commercials from those bookies, then even those commercials have to be hit by a cab, and they also throw it into school sport. I'm thinking something that also of these seizure cigarettes and everything that threatens health, etc., when it's sold to invest in school sports and I seriously think that we should tie up games of chance, especially those that concern sports and find a way to get money for school sports and make new athletes. The honor of these dark-road athletes, etc., I'm not a racist, but my God, now there's no playmaker when Theodosic is a player because of the years, waiting for us all, etc., when Theodosic is too old, possibly Bogdanović, who's going to play us a playmaker? We have to go through the school choir to raise future athletes. And so, since it's all about money, in the future, when we do laws like this from gambling, here I will personally advocate, if the people, of course, want me to continue to advocate that more than games are being transferred to schools, school sports and that various school competitions are being organised as much as possible, to get future playmakers, to get future Jajica, Vukotica, Savića, Filipovica... (Alexander Martinovic: Zebece, Tchaikovske, Bobeke, Tudjman.) I don't want Bobek, I mean something from our market. Moša Marjanović can do it, etc. That we don't have to betray foreign nationals to have players and playmakers. So, I seriously advocate that through school sport, later on, our professional sport wins. You don't know how expensive sports are today, how much a top athlete can cost. And a hundred million euros. As far as it can be, if so, Mr. Djukanovic, good income. Here, when "Partizan" entered the champion league, he earned some money, but when "Star" entered ten years later, it was five times the money. In ten years, I'm asking you -- what's the League of Champions worth, and are we going to qualify if we don't seriously invest in school sports? This will give us pioneer selections, cadets, youth and senior teams. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the future, call on colleagues who are to take my words seriously, and to invest as much money as we can from games of chance in school sport, if we're going to raise our sport in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72867	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 140th Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72868	Thank you. We are completing a debate on the draft law on gambling, and it would be good to send certain messages as MPs to the public. The games of chance exist, it's inevitable, but to experience them as a necessary evil. It is good that gambling is regulated by law and so far it has been regulated by law, but this law is something better than it was before, but not to manage the team that gambling is just a good source of revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget, there are other revenues that the budget can be charged with. In fact, budgets can be spent differently, not to be financed by NGOs, to eliminate various unnecessary agencies, etc., and to keep our message from here to make sure their parents don't become gamblers, that their children don't go into bookies. Grown men not to seek comfort in bookies, not to seek comfort in cubes, not to be in debt for gambling, so that at the end they lose everything they have. So that should be our message to both parents and teachers and society at all. Inspectors to keep an eye on, to control these houses that deal with and all objects that deal with gambling. Police not to be an accomplice but to make sure that minors don't enter these facilities, that they don't get infected. They say the cube is a contagious disease, that the cube is a disease of envy. Many end up killing themselves because they can't get rid of gambling debts, so many tragic fates of different families because a family member has given up gambling and this is not unserious at all, and this is not naive at all. We repeat, let it be regulated by law, but the competent authorities must strictly adhere to the law and make sure that all those involved in this work do so in accordance with the law not to reduce the volume of gambling of all kinds. Our intensity, our goal should be to get as few people in Serbia involved in gambling and not now that we're boasting – we have a good law so push in. No, don't. Don't, whenever you want to get into a bookie, remember at the old lady's door – there's no bread without a distraction. You're planning on playing luck, and you kids and you're grown-ups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-28-0.u72869	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for today's discussions. Thank you and Minister Sinishi Mali and Slavica Savičić. I'll see you tomorrow. We'll continue at 10.00 hours.
