ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73561	Thank you very much. The replica lasts two minutes, I'll stick to it. Yesterday, one of my colleagues across the street, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, said a lot of lies about me, my personality, so in my best interest, in the best atmosphere, I'm going to respond to that. First he accused me of "dancing into JSO." It's, um, bullshit. There was a concert in Kula, Bajaga and Instructors and I was present. He said I said the Legion was a folk hero. It can't even come to me in a state of complete madness. Afterwards, he said that the state of emergency at the time of "Sablje" was introduced in an unconstitutional manner and that it was then to be introduced by the Assembly, but that it introduced a V.D. The president of Serbia then, at that moment. Well, I'm not surprised that someone who boasts that he's a kind of lawyer, it's usually a protégé to boast that they're the best students, he has no idea what he's saying, or he's lying. According to the 1990 Constitution, Article 83 paragraph 8 states that the President of the State declares the state of emergency on a reasoned proposal from the Government. Therefore, this self-called smart lawyer who teaches at some high school of medicine, I don't know what kind, has no idea of rights, or had the intention of lying to the Serbian public. I hope this is different. Basically, I wouldn't characterize that behavior, he's characterized it more than once, so I don't want to talk about it. He said that some people, one singer and one singer and one general took damages because they were in Sabre. That's not true. Ceca was sentenced to bed with a sticker, Lukas made a deal, didn't ask for anything, and Pavkovic went to The Hague afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73562	No one mentioned their names, so finish your line. It's not said. The law school in Novi Sad isn't at least a school. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad, Mrs. Gojkovic, for allowing this debate that we started last night to end. It would be good for Mr. Zivkovic to read the 1990 Constitution by the end because he did not read it until the end. He only read a few sentences that support his argument. If you read the 1990 Constitution, then you, the MPs, and you, the citizens of Serbia, could hear that the Constitution said that the state of emergency could only be introduced to the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and they introduced it throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not to fight organised crime, but to lead a political coup against people who were not responding at that time. When he invented the so-called. The Zemun clan? Those who came to power after October 5, 2000. It was a unique clan, Zemun-Surcinian. When they came to power, they made a division of the Zemun clan, which is not good and the Surcin clan, which is good. Do you remember "Produced Product"? Who went there to parties? Who was hanging out there? Who drank wine there? Do you remember what that owner of "Produced Product" said? He says, when they started coming to me on October 5, 2000, someone in torn jeans, in some shoes, in an old jacket, and after a year, all with some angry jeeps, in the latest suits, the richest people in the world. Explain to Serbian citizens how this is possible? That's one thing. (President: Time. Here, I'm done. It's another thing. According to Zoran Zivkovic -- the result of "Sablje" and the result of the introduction of the state of emergency is that Nebojsa Pavkovic ended up in The Hague. Great. You did the best possible thing for Serbia, you delivered a man who was a third army commander during NATO bombing. You violated the Constitution, just as you violated the 1990 Constitution, when you were Slobodan Milosevic, without any legal basis, based on the government's regulation, you who are today talking about government regulations... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73564	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73565	First, let the self-proclaimed good lawyer read that article. It says there - if security is compromised in part of the territory... Read article 84, I don't want to lecture here, I'm old and I don't have formal competences for it. As for the subject of Milosevic, I would like to give an answer immediately. The first extradition for The Hague was in 1997, and Milosevic did so. And then remember those two, I can't remember what they're called now, give me five minutes and I'll find what they're called, Erdemovic and another. Thus, it was verified by the Kumanovski Agreement, which was signed when the ruling majority was also the ruling majority. Then don't make it up and lie. As for "Sabre, I repeat, fully proud of everything that's been done there. There's nothing wrong with it. I've never been to Schiller's, and you don't call your ministers now, it's not nice on your part. That's what I did when I was supposed to do, so, but I don't know where Schiller is, not even today, although I've lived in Belgrade for so long and I know very well Belgrade, but it has nothing to do with the authority that was then responsible for Serbia's life. It is from November 2000 to December 2003, and it is the Periklov era of Serbia in every respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73566	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73567	I didn't understand this very well about November 2001 until 2003, the right to tell you. Perhaps Mrs. Verica Radeta as a participant of these events might remind me a little of what Mr. Zoran Zivkovic meant. I remember well, as the citizens of Serbia remember at that time, when they came to power, so when they came to power, Milorad Ulemek Legion, who was commander of the Special Operations Unit, was declared a national hero because he turned his back on Slobodan Milosevic and moved to the DOS side. Now I ask Mr. Zivkovic, who was the federal interior minister -- how it is possible that people like Dusan Spasojevic, such as Milet Vukovic Kum, like all those whom you declared a post-festum in 2003, have declared criminals, murderers and so on... They all had IDs, official IDs to the State Security Resor. All of them. I was talking about the so-called Zemun-Surcin clan, which existed before 5. In October 2000 and then when you came to power, then you made an artificial division and you said – these are Zemuns, but these Zemuns became criminals after 12 March 2003. By March 12, 2003, they were respected businessmen. Some were police officers, some were lawyers, some were these, some were them, but they were all respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since March 12, 2003, there are two clans, one of which is no good, and the other one is Surcinal. This Surcinal clan is your ‘Correct-product’. He didn't live on Schiller Street. You know where Cromillo-produced had a company, in Surcin. You went to him first in torn shoes, then in jeeps, newest models, expensive shoes, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73568	Thank you. The Republic was asked by Vjerica Radet for an exhibition by Aleksandra Martiniovic. Right? I'm not wrong. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You certainly do, but now directly because of this... Yeah, yeah. I'm kind of gonna try to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73569	As far as the current state of emergency, we have expressed our position and we think it should have been done by the National Assembly, but in the context of this debate - what is now happening is the highlight of democracy in relation to the state of emergency that we remember from 2003. And he's right, fellow Martinovic, that at the time I was a national MP and that I remember everything. They remember the citizens, too. You are wrong, Mr. Martinovic, they did not make the decision, but, personally, Natasa Micic. You remember how funny that was when she came out with her purse on her shoulder and said, "I've decided to make a decision." People laughed at that sentence, first of all. Likewise, those of us who were then messengers remember well how we entered the congregation. First, the meetings of the Assembly were without the presence of cameras, strict secrecy. Second, in that building over there we were, there were special forces in a set of black uniforms, only their eyes were visible, simply to scare a man when he walked in from the door of the Assembly and immediately met something like that. Also, I'm a participant of the time when the Prime Minister was elected after Zoran Djindjic's death, which was something I guess I'll never forget for the rest of my life. Of course, we understand that if a state official dies, the state cannot stop, someone else must be chosen. But then, since Nebojsa Covic was in the game, so that he wouldn't come to that place, then the group that Martinovic was talking about gathered and then they agreed to be Zoran Zivkovic. Also, without public presence, Zoran Zivkovic is voted prime minister. Also, their thing, someone has to, so let him be whatever he is. But what is remembered is that even then they applauded that they laughed, that Zoran Zivkovic had congratulations. Five days after the death of his party president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73570	Zoran Zivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73571	So I repeat once again, I recommend that each Serbian written citizen read Article 43. The 1999 constitution will be clear how the state of emergency was introduced and then there were, of course, 10 initiatives related to it before the Constitutional Court of Justice. Of course no one has disputed the constitutionality of introducing a state of emergency and not to talk about it any further. I fully understand the great interest in the so-called so-called. The Zemun and the Surcin clan, whatever you call it, because of course you've been following it every day since you were little. When someone's fascinated by someone, when it's a life example, then of course they follow every day, to remember who's where he's been, who's been doing what he's done. I'm sorry, I didn't do that. I totally understand the indignation of all those who were unhappy in "Sabre" who thought it was wrong, all the criminals were afraid then and everyone who was fascinated by crime were then afraid and that the Prime Minister was elected then there was, of course, documentation for it and as much as I remember -- I don't remember the session being a secret, but it doesn't matter, maybe it was, it wasn't a secret. Maybe she was media-free. That laughing and congratulating is really rude, like when someone goes out and wants to poison their environment and take out their shoe, and then as the target of Parliament's president to justify his attempt at a chemical war. Therefore, proud, once again, of what was "Sabbe" ready and today to answer for everything before the judiciary, before God, before, find some third authority, and only one correction - it is true that he himself was wrong earlier in time. So, November 2000 to December 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73572	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73573	Mr. Zivkovic seems to have mixed everything up. This is not about the 1999 Constitution, but about the 1990 Constitution, which was adopted on 28 September 1990, and in that Constitution in Article 83, it is nice to say that the state of emergency is being introduced into the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia... (Zoran Zivkovic: Read the whole article. )......................................................................................................... Yes, yes, in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia when security is threatened... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, (Zoran Zivkovic: Read the whole article. I'm reading, don't be nervous. ... where the security of the Republic of Serbia, freedom and the rights of man and citizen or the work of state authorities, etc. are at risk in the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They introduced a state of emergency across the territory of the Republic of Serbia and took for their victims people who were political opponents at the time. Now I ask Mr. Zivkovic - if this was, he says, the Perikl Age of Serbia, how is it possible that during the state of emergency that you have introduced in an anti-constitutional way that direct television transmissions of the National Assembly session have been lifted? Do you remember that time when Serbian citizens could not know what was going on in the National Assembly? What kind of Pericle era is that? Imagine now that the Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has turned off the RTS cameras and we're sitting here without the citizens knowing what we're talking about or who's talking about. It was in your time. You've abolished television transmissions that were liquids since 9 March 1991 until you introduced a state of emergency. Both Natasa Jovanovic and Verica Radet and other colleagues who were MPs at the time know that. As for that November, I think you're... (President: Thank you. Time. I'm done. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, when they came to power, a Cypriot rebellion broke out in southern Serbia, and then federal Interior Minister Zoran Zivkovic, to turn out to be very smart, brought a map of Serbia to the Assembly to show where the forces of the police and the Serbian Army are located, and where the Cypriot terrorists are located. He couldn't cope with the geographical map until a general of the Yugoslav Army showed up and told him -- come on, get out of my way to explain to MPs where the positions of terrorists are and where the positions of the Yugoslav Army and the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73574	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73575	So, once again, this member, I don't have it in front of me, but anyone who could have already found it, writes -- that if security is compromised in part of the territory, the president can declare a state of emergency, period. Read as much as you want. As far as the map is concerned, to return immediately, that rebellion of the Shipar, Albanian or whatever terrorist in southern Serbia is the only example since 1945 that Serbia has defeated someone and calmed the situation and that it has never returned and that it has kept its part of the territory. All those wars that you have fought again, where you allegedly saved Serbs, where you saved them there, the Serbs are gone and there are shot, killed in the worst possible way, and the only place where the state of Serbia has been under the control of Serbia has done something, is to calm down the rebellion Presevo – Bujanovac – Medvedja, the day there is peaceful and these Albanians are an integral part of Serbian society, respecting laws, pay taxes, pay electricity, pay for everything they need and participate in state life. Therefore, there is no doubt about it. As for that map, first, of course, this younger genius who has already defined himself with the letter "m" at the beginning not to repeat that ugly word has remixed. So I was a federal minister, and I could explain to the federal parliament where the forces were, where the police were, where they were terrorist. What was now physically in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's room at the time, that someone who was a good lawyer should already know. It's true that I showed everything right, and the results of that fight against terrorism are such that it's obvious that I and those who worked with me knew what we were doing and that was victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73576	Thank you. Undisputed. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73577	Thank you, President. Well, a few things were brought to my account at the end of yesterday's debate and these things that had nothing to do with the policy that we're here for today, but politics. I'm not going to answer, and I'm leaving it for discussion to those who do not deal with politics here in the Assembly, but they do politics. But there's one thing I want to say, since it's said that I, here's something I don't know and that I don't know that the Home Secretary has the right to take orders. I did not challenge the Minister of the Interior's right to take orders, nor did I say he had the right to take orders. I was talking about the contents of an order by which the interior minister, from March 18th to April 9th, restricted the movement of citizens, which is obviously because the government on April 9th abolished the possibility of the minister, rather than by the government restricting that right, which is only possible under our Constitution. The only possible restriction of human rights during an emergency is by means of a regulation, i.e. by decision of the Assembly, but since the Assembly has not worked, then it is possible by means of a government regulation with the co-signature of the President. And you, for the first 20 days of emergency, have restricted the movement of citizens by order of the interior minister unconstitutional, and after a government regulation signed by the president. I believe that, like many other things, which have been unconstitutional in the past 40 days, will be subject to the Constitutional Court's assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73578	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73579	First of all, I said it yesterday, and I will repeat it today, that according to the Law on State Administration, every minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including the Minister of Interior, has the right to adopt regulations, orders and instructions. We have the right to do so on regular occasions, both during emergency times. This was done exclusively in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with Article 48. The state administration law has not been violated by any applicable regulation in the Republic of Serbia. What I said yesterday wasn't politics. I'm just saying that the president of the National Assembly wanted to make a cut, and she didn't do it and it's a good thing she didn't do it to show that we were different from you. You were not president of the parliamentary group at the time you spoke, because your parliamentary group fell apart about half-one yesterday, because you were abandoned by two MPs, Goran Bogdanovic, former KIM minister and Zdravko Stankovic. Yesterday at the moment you spoke, you were not president of the parliamentary group, because you did not have a parliamentary group. You, and knowing the MPs, have formed a new assembly yesterday at 5:00 p.m. and 20 minutes and is now your parliamentary group, do you know what it's called? Vojvodjanski front - Serbia 21 and of 17 hours and 20 minutes Marko Djurisic is the president of the parliamentary group, and the deputy president is Nenad Canak. Now, you tell me, Mr. Djurishic, am I right or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73580	Thank you. If there's any need, I'll get involved in the debate. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73581	So let me do it again. I believe that no citizen of the Republic of Serbia is interested in who is here, as is called his parliamentary group, what happens when I believe that I did not have the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that the president of the Assembly will not give me his word. But I'm saying it's politics, not politics. I didn't come here to deal with politics. Here you go with those who think it's the most important thing in Serbia today. Let me say it one more time, because you gave me the right again. Yes, the interior minister has the right to take orders, but the contents of that order cannot be a restriction on human rights. Only the National Assembly, or Government, can do so at a time of emergency, with the co-signation of the president. You said it on April 9th because you broke up with that practice to limit the movement of citizens of the Republic of Serbia at a time of emergency, based on the interior minister's orders, but rather on government regulations. The government's last regulation limits the time of citizens' movement, let's say now for these first holidays of 83 hours, with the possibility of the government deciding differently. It can only reduce that restriction, because the Assembly will likely confirm the regulation in the meantime. So these things, these things, they say that it wasn't from the beginning of a clear plan and strategy, that things were changing, that they were not knowing what and why you were doing. I've cited this as an example, and I'm saying that the Constitutional Court will deal with the constitutionality of all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73582	Thank you. The word is Mira Petrovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. You didn't participate, you weren't called, you had no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73583	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to restore the discussion from the past to the present, to the situation where we have so-called The war with the Coronation virus, Kovid – 19 and when we're all pretty surprised, weird. At first, I have to say, I think we're wasting our time. We talked for seven hours yesterday and how it started, and we're gonna talk today for seven hours. The question is whether or not we'll work tomorrow. I am increasingly convinced that the emergency decision should have been made the way it was made. The future will show whether it was right or not, but in a situation where every day was important to us, I think it was very important to react immediately. Djurisic is probably right when he says he didn't know exactly how and what. Well, you didn't know, they were all found. I was listening on our doctor's television this morning, who was working in New York, who said the first seven days absolutely didn't know and couldn't handle it. We couldn't be here either, but it's so easy to act smart right now. We as a people and as we like to be wise, we only agree that God was just when he shared his mind, so he shared with us all, is he, because we are all the smartest. It's very easy to be a general after a battle and it's very easy and it's very easy to check your homework, but it's hard to do. That's the situation now. It was very difficult to cope with the situation we were in and of course she could not meet the congregation. I'm not comfortable sitting here today, like I wasn't comfortable yesterday. If we've been protecting ourselves, there's a lot of us in one place now. With all the measures we've taken and who've really been taken, but, you know, statistics have shown that mortality in our country is just my generation, because we've protected the oldest and remained mine and younger than me. So there's a million reasons why some things aren't done, but well, we'll go back to it, time will show, analysis will show. What I want to say in front of the PUPS parliamentary group is that we are all simply grateful and proud of all the pensioners who, of course, have always been the most reasonable. They are very willing to accept the restriction of movement, as some express themselves here, the restriction of basic human rights, etc., but they all have experience behind them, and they are all aware that this time it was a matter of life support. Of course there should be a follow-up, the sequel will be discussed with Minister Sinisha Mali, with programmes planned for economic development after this Corona, but all the pensioners were sitting at home disciplined. Did you hear them complaining? I didn't hear them. Because if they were complaining, we'd be complaining here. They sit patiently and wait for this to pass. They stand up patiently in the morning and go when to go shopping. Did it take a measure? Yeah, she was needed, but the problem is that she's not respected by these others. I was coming back yesterday, of course, like all of you, at half seven houses, my whole block was full of people, not pensioners walking, but young people playing with their kids, moms with babies. I don't understand anything. Do I need it now, we have a solution maybe for that, we're all surprised what's said in some country, older than 80 don't expect respirators if they come out. But, come on, we can work it out here, whoever wants to move has to pay the fee that needs to be paid - 50,000, 150,000 and accept that you won't be treated if you get a crown. Because the story - Corona is the same as the flu, it's not true! The crown is five to ten times stronger than the flu. From the flu in the hospital lies only older people, the rest go to the doctor, get the drugs to reduce temperature, take medications, teas, hello-byes, you're all home. It's just, I think we're kind of starting a discussion in the wrong direction, we're talking about it now, the questions are, we're like we're not living in the same country. I'd most like us to live in a country where you have a president you hear about when you choose him, where he walks around the world with his wife and we comment on who's better dressed whether his wife or Mrs. McCron or, I don't know, the famous Melanie Trump. But unfortunately, we live in a hilly Balkans, living in Serbia that is constantly in a whirlwind. Gentlemen across the street, if you didn't want to listen to any other side, you didn't have to come. I think it's essential to talk to you. I'll wait for them to stop for a while... (Zoran Zivkovic: What is it? I'd like to talk to you. (Zoran Zivkovic, throwing from the scene. I didn't hear you, but it's kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73584	It doesn't matter what he said, it's what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73585	I'll continue mine, yes. What I wanted to point out is that we have a situation where the pensioners, as always, have figured out where they live, and they've been through all the liberation wars, sanctions, bombings, killing the prime minister, the economic crisis, the floods, and we've reached this Corona. We had a threat from the economic collapse and they understood it and they understood the need and the pension cuts, so we came to the fact that pensions were refunded, that they were increased, that now there was a payment of four thousand, that there would be a payment of these 100 euros. No matter how you figure it out, the pensioners are grateful for it. They realized that now it's not my question and your attitude, now it's a matter of flag gathering, now it's a matter of survival of this country. Did they do it, did the health care do it right? Gentlemen, the numbers speak. I listened to Dr. Nestorovic, we and Belgium went the same way, on March 6th the first dead man in our home, the first victim in Belgium. Belgium had a 7094 dead citizen three days ago, and we had 162. It is that they have ten and a half million inhabitants, but you put it in proportion so you'll get five thousand sure victims. Don't tell me we didn't do it. Are we the best? Are we good? Well, what were we best at except in our minds? Of course there were surprises. Of course, a million things have waited for us that we've never met before, but that doesn't mean we have to take our heads off now. We'll run analysis, no one's against analysis. But we don't have a situation right now, you know, when you listen to questions that are being asked and journalists ask questions that are, how much this has been bought, how much of this has been brought in, there's always a way to question what the government has been doing, whether the money has been spent in the right way or not. There's nothing to rob here, gentlemen. This country has been robbed. Here what had to be taken is taken, what now has been given by foreign investors, we'll hardly steal them, hard. So, what I think is, I'm speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group, it's that we have to support the government now, that we have to stop and we have stopped and the pensioners have stopped, and what's important for them, it's important to know that when they get out of all this that their pensions will be regular, safe, that they'll be talking soon and about changing that Swiss model, but now it's important to survive. Statistics said there were over 80 years of deaths in Italy. We managed to save our own. What's the problem now, the problem is the economics move forward now, get out of all this, and this wasn't so bad here. The state is ready to help. I think it's really much invested right now in health care, I think heroes are number one, that five places are empty, and then everyone else who worked in this country is going, but it's gotta be admitted that it's been done, it's gotta be admitted that this government really worked. Someone might like it or not like it, but they worked all the time. I, for example, regularly followed and regularly followed everything that is an expert opinion, doctors who don't like it can change the program, but a month and a half ago we were all so confused that we all wanted to listen. Now that we've all, as we say, mastered the material now we're all relaxing. Now someone's bored, someone's not. But the fact is, we haven't finished the war yet, we haven't got it. The streets are full. If anyone asks me, absolutely first grade holidays have to be closed. It must be known to be in isolation, because definitely a young world, just because they think they're protected, they walk too much, they walk my daughters too. So, I only have one question, simply, the state has given you the opportunity to protect mothers with children under 12 years old, all chronic patients, we've done it all. I was very angry, you know that I run the Public Enterprise "Post of Serbia", we let all these people be at home, everyone went out. So if we're going to introduce some measures, if the oldest is going to sit at home, and that's not easy, and they're sure and they want it, there's no social distance, and they want it and they're social beings, psychologically. You know how many single-member households there are, they all need it, but they don't need to wave it now – well, why you forbid them to go out, no, but call them, send them an ice cream. Now the information technology has shown what a miracle it is. Now you can finish everything by not getting out of your house. Call your parents, send them cookies, order them something when this is over. It's not a matter of concern now, as it was, and as it was a reduction in pensions, how they live now. The attention is, what you're going to do when it's all regular to take care of them. But I'm afraid that all this walking world just doesn't think. You know what grandma's service is? Well, there's nothing like it, nothing better that you can offer your children to grow up in healthy beings. Now everything's turned to itself and we're all just going to go to the analysis, if this is done like this, if it's done like that. So how could it be done? Do you know what hospitals looked like to us? Well, has anyone seen what this Infectious Clinic looks like? Things were done in the meantime. And today was a contribution. The first one, I accidentally watched it, was in pulmology. We really should be proud of how trained health workers are there. Could it have been done on the first day? Well, if she didn't make America and New York rich, how could we? I said first in my company, we need 150,000 gloves, perfect, 100,000 masks, perfect. You know how long it took us? In a week. We didn't know. It never occurred to anyone that it can't be done like that, that it takes millions. I'm gonna go back to this again. So, once again, really, next to the pensioners, everyone else has to stay. I want the pensioners to know, they're aware of it, they're all sitting at home and nobody's complaining. We complain for them. But they don't have to worry, that everything that comes next, that's how it was planned before, that they're going to get their pensions, that they're going to get their pensions in time too. I'm going back to that part now, and I just can't skip it, as a director of a public firm. I would really invite everyone to unity. It is not a matter of how much President Vukic has obtained and whether he has been to the award of all these things he has obtained. Of course it is. And it should be. It's done. It did not prevent the former president or former ministers from using all the connections they had around the world and trying to help us and provide the necessary things for the medical centres. But there's something I don't see that they've really stood out, I don't see it. We need to leave political bickering for a healthy time. Not at the moment. I'd like more to finish, I won't be long because as we're all going, we'll never get out of here. I only have to go back to the remark I have, which is now addressed to the prime minister. I ask you sometimes to commend the Serbian mailmen. Serbia's post office is a tight system, it works whoever works on the Mail principle, it works well. The fact is that absolutely in all situations when the state was needed, the Post Office of Serbia was there. And at the time of the flood and now. We've also put our trucks, our vans, our drivers, thousands and thousands of miles away, thank God there's something to drive, medical equipment to different centers. I also have to commend that we're from the state when we complained that we can't get some things ourselves anymore, that we've got everything we need and that we're getting it further. It is for all praise. On the other hand, to make people realize what kind of effort it is that people put into the Post Office. I'll tell you that on March 18th, I remember exactly that date, because it was the date I talked about with some people from the government, on March 18th, the Post Office of Serbia made 1,150,000 deliveries to letters and express packages, 250,000 payments and payments, 400,000 packages were taken over and 250,000 brought to us in the Post Office. Collect how many contacts it is a day. After that, pensions started from 25th and mailmen worked every weekend, avoiding direct contact, with distance, etc. We've done everything planically as we've been instructed. These people were at great risk of being infected. I, I must say, am very proud, that we are of this many thousands of people, and 15,000 people work in the Post Office of Serbia, I think we currently have 14 people who are positive for Kovid 19. That's my grudge. I'd love to, and there's the Minister of Agriculture. I think there's going to be a lot of investment in agriculture, and it's a branch of the economy that can really pull us back for the future and make economic progress, I think they're so-called. Gastarbyters who all came back also realized that they only had a country of Serbia, wherever they were, had to come back here, go back to their country, and that it was a branch of the economy where they could invest their resources, and thank God the country has as much as you want, fertile countries. Lastly, on my part, I will return to my postmen again, one big thank you to all the mailmen, so I expect Mrs. Prime Minister, too, to praise us at some point.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73586	Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73587	Thank you. Your remarks are indeed in place and thank you for reminding me and indeed one big thank you to all the postmen in Serbia, because without our Post office and without our mailmen it would not be possible to distribute pensions so effectively and in such a safe way. So really, thank you, you were there when it was most needed and all of Serbia's postmen thank you. I wanted to go back to this controversy about the assembly session and whether or not the government should have asked for a meeting, whether or not it was responsible to ask the Assembly to sit down. I say that once again, first of all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching or will follow this transmission later because ultimately this is their Assembly, the National Assembly, and it is important that I really do once again, although I think I explained it quite well yesterday, but let me explain it one more time. I was looking at some more numbers last night to remind myself of what the situation was like at the time, and I really think that the only responsible decision was to keep the assembly from being ambushed. I said it's not 250 MPs, it's a much larger number of people needed to hold one session of the National Assembly, that's what I think over 500 people, but you'll know better. So at that point we had a really big increase in the number of infected and the number of patients and I'm going to tell you that on March 10th we had 4.27% was the percentage of the patients who were tested. And then it grew quickly, the next day, so the 11th of March it rose from 4.27% to 11.92%. Let's say, that's how it went until March 14th, so on March 14th, the day before the state of emergency came to 17.16%. So in those four days we went from 4.27% to 17.16%. Why? I don't think there was any basis at that time for the Assembly to have a secure ambush, that is, that the MPs and all those people who work in the National Assembly, all the support needed to organise a session of the National Assembly, so that all these people, including the MPs, would be safe. I think it's quite clear that we would have terrible consequences, that we would have a large number of patients and unfortunately, I think we would definitely have some kind of death case. That number grew further by March 24th, on March 24th we had 33.08% of those infected compared to the ones tested. Then slowly, slowly, I think he stagnated, so he started falling where, say, on yesterday we had, that percentage came to 4,07%. Therefore, it was possible, and with all these precautions as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see it today and yesterday in the National Assembly, it was possible to safely organise a session of the National Assembly. So that decision was based on numbers, on accurate information, on a precise analysis of why it couldn't then, and today it can, with all these prevention and caution measures. So as soon as the minimum conditions were met that the National Assembly of the Ambitions we prayed, as a Government, for parliament to meet and that all decisions we made in the meantime would be confirmed by parliament. Minimum conditions. So once again I wanted to go back to these numbers. Now, the second question is whether we would be criticised, however we decided. I don't just think of me as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but above all I mean the Serbian Progressive Party and the ruling coalition. I'll tell you the answer is that no doubt, no doubt, the criticisms that are now coming that we should have called a session of the National Assembly would still be there, just the opposite. Then they would say that we organized the National Assembly without it being safe and that we put people's lives in danger, but no doubt. Now let me give you another example of why I'm saying this. Those days before the emergency was imposed, all criticisms were focused on why we still don't introduce an emergency, why we don't introduce a movement ban, why we don't put in quarantine, why our measures are mild and all these criticisms have come as a rule, as they are criticizing today, so tomorrow they'll criticise the other, as a rule by tycoon media. That's what I saw last night. Here, I'll tell you this - March 13th "New S", interview with Dr. Belojevic: "No emergency will be worse than in Italy. ‘New S’. So, directly to Gilas' media. I'm quoting now, says dr. Belojevic and Nova S convey it, of course: "It will be worse than it is now in Italy if no extraordinary measures are taken. What they're doing, it's nothing," thinking of us. So what we're doing, as a government, is nothing. "Many things don't control, I don't know what people do, and time is running out. It has to be a state of emergency, it's not an ordinary epidemic, it's not an ordinary disease, and Serbs are crazy," I quote: "They will come out of spite. When a state of emergency is introduced, it's a different story, then the army and the police are on the streets. “ Today’s daily newspaper: “Planet in quarantine, Serbs in expectation. “ The same people, but the same people who are calling today for a slap in the pots and say: “These were too repressive measures, this did not have to be so. Why did you keep people in isolation? Why did you keep them in quarantine? The same people told a completely different story just a few days before the actual introduction of an emergency. So whatever we did, it took this other one. When schools still work – why do schools work? When you close schools - what am I going to do with the kids at home? Now, don't let the kids be in schools, going from house to school, that's dangerous. I want my kids to sit at home. When children sit at home – why do children sit at home, why don't they go out? It's different every time. Okay, that's something we know very well. I just want to remind again, first of all, this tycoon media and that part of the opposition, as I once said -- we are neither crazy nor deaf, so we see what you do every time, but Serbian citizens also see and that is why it is the only important personal responsibility, responsibility for the work you do in the interests of Serbian citizens and that you do your best, and criticism from that side will always be. This shows their responsibility and the irresponsibility of these media and hypocrisy and these media and such politicians, and it is our job to do our best to take full responsibility for ourselves and to do so in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia and human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73588	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73589	Thank you, Chairman. First, I will be in front of the MPs' Club of the Modern Serbia Party and in front of all the MPs who today are representatives of the United Democratic Serbia coalition to extend my condolences to all families whose members, unfortunately, have succumbed to the Corona virus. According to the latest since yesterday, there are 168 of them. On the other hand, I want to wish the other citizens of Serbia good health and hope that we together will defeat this monster that hit us all. I spoke to the public yesterday, and I resented the fact that this session was scheduled in this way and after all this time, since it seems to me that there was room and opportunity to organize the session in the Constitution in exactly the same way within 48 hours. So I understand everything that you just said to the Prime Minister earlier that there was a legitimate risk and a legitimate concern for the security of MPs and employees, and not only of the MPs and employees, but of all those families that we return to when we come from our workplace, so that's a much larger number than that number that you've listed. But we, like doctors, are unfortunately not privileged to think about what level our security is, and we've just been elected by the citizens because we're going to bear that kind of sacrifice, if it's even a victim, it seems to me that we've had opportunities, if not within 48 hours, then within some reasonable time to meet and to discuss together not only whether it's necessary to introduce an emergency, but also all the measures you've brought, unfortunately alone. As far as this debate is concerned, I also took a public interest yesterday in the way this session was scheduled, because it remained a vague format until the end. I am sorry to say that because of the way the Second Point is on the agenda, therefore, a united 44 points, 44 measures that we need to discuss, which are at the same time discussed about the dog walking, the closure of pensioners, economic measures, the health measures that the Government has brought, so it is simply inappropriate and I have to conclude, unfortunately, after a series of dialogues that were led to the FPN, which in the Serbian Parliament, that we are somehow returning with this united debate completely unnecessary for the period of December 2017, when we discussed the budget. We also had no opportunity to discuss some very important issues that were related not only to the budget, but also to other laws that were then on the agenda. As far as the UDS Rules of Procedure are concerned, we didn't have a single shred of dilemma about whether we should meet at this session, because we think that if there's a right time for the MPs to sit in the House of the People's Assembly, this is the moment, and we didn't have dilemmas in that sense. I also thank all the MPs who have shown responsibility and treat us all responsibly, wear enough protective equipment and risk not only us, but also those we return to, as well as the employees who work here. I will remind you, and my colleague Marko Djurisic reminded you, that it is precisely a request for this session to be held for the first time by the United Democratic Serb MPs at a meeting held at the Serbian Palace, where you attended, and it seems to me that we are the only ones who have sent the proposal at that time. So we did not want to use and abuse this very sensitive moment in Serbia and to talk about whether it is necessary to meet the Assembly. I think my colleague Marko Djurisic, I think that's exactly what he was talking about, was very clear and precise when he said it was necessary for the Assembly to confirm all decisions and, above all, the decision to take effect on the state of emergency. Whether an emergency or an emergency was to take effect, there were misunderstandings in the public and we can agree that in this sense the Constitution was not broken. What there is a problem with our Constitution, which was adopted in 2006 and was brought in the way it was brought in, which in many of its members is very unspeakable and we can say freely maybe even sloppy and that it should be done and is precisely one of the reasons why the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should change and why we should all make additional efforts is to avoid exactly the same situations as this one. So, once again, we had to confirm the decision on the state of emergency much earlier and that all the nations MPs were actively involved in taking measures that had been made in the meantime. I'm also asking the presidents of the assembly, or vice president now. So, this session has been attended by certain members of the government, some of them gone, and I think among them, unfortunately, there are perhaps not some who should and how to sit here today and yesterday with all of us, but there are no representatives of the profession. You know, MPs would like to instruct some questions and representatives of the profession. Ugly expression, otherwise I don't like to use it, so -- medical and healthcare workers who have been involved in helping, practically, the government to bring certain measures. So they are gone today, and it seems to me that there was a chance that they too would be invited to this session and would talk to us. If nothing else, the National Assembly has the opportunity to organise different committees and in this sense they could come to different committees, starting with the Committee on European Integration, for health and family, for human and minority rights. So they were able to come to these committees and make different misunderstandings clear to the MPs. I have to make one criticism, although you brought up a report yesterday by all crisis headquarters, you have somehow unitedly presented these reports, that these reports have been left behind in some written format and have not been sent to the MPs in good time, so that the interpretation of the measures that have been taken is actually an interpretation without an explanation of why and at which point you bring these measures and in this sense there is a different clarification. So there are practically two crisis reports missing. I sincerely hope that... I understand that crisis headquarters are now under a lot of pressure, but I am also sure that crisis headquarters do not work alone and that there will be the possibility that the public, not only the MPs, will get a detailed explanation of how the crisis headquarters have worked and how and at what point the decisions have been made. So, I have to say that yesterday you presented the practical work of crisis headquarters, speaking of four stages, if I remembered correctly, and we can conclude from that that somehow the state wasn't ready. So I can't say that all the countries in the world were ready. We can see... We can't ignore reality and say that I don't know what country has responded properly to the Corona virus. There are two things that most of our MPs have eyes on. This is how communication was conducted with citizens and, secondly, which seems to us to be another provision of the Constitution that runs parallelly, and these are electoral activities. So it seems to us that this state of emergency period has been used for, practically, one function campaign. We can't call it anything but that, given that no one else has had the opportunity to talk about the measures and how you bring them, except for the representatives of the executive government, the individual ministers, the president of the state, and also you and the unequivocal measures that have been taken, the activities that have been carried out, practically treated as personal, and not as something that the state is doing, and it seems to me that the citizens who were only able to follow it through television screens, and we will agree that they were all nailed to television screens, may have gotten the impression that no one else cares about them until only the Prime Minister, the President of the State and individual ministers. So, I regret that, again, it was the last conclusion and the last laws that were changed in the National Assembly just before the election race, were just the laws concerning the functioning campaign and I think they were in every sense violated during the emergency. I've had the chance to listen to a few ministers defending themselves from it. Among them is the defence minister sitting with us here today. I could say that one sure fact could say that it was a functioning campaign during the state of emergency that the minister himself was trying to check his personal rating. So, at first, communication, that other thing that is very controversial, was quite unserious, I'm not going back, it's mentioned on several occasions, and I'm wasting time, and I'm being inappropriate, and then we came into a phase that she was aggressive. I'll understand everything -- human beings, you're scared, you're in such positions where you make important decisions, that you're aware that people are dying, but it's totally inappropriate for anyone to yell from television screens at Serbian citizens, that anyone is talking to them in a different way, except that they're treated like mature beings who can, when they're well explained, respect the measures they're taking. So, first, citizens were attacked in that communication and they were burdened with a lot, and it seems to me that there was no real communication with them. I was relatively nearly talking to my colleague, lovely Michaelsk, about how communication was. On some occasions, Dr. Loncar did communicate appropriately with the public. I think he did at certain times reduce that tension. Whatever his ministerial work is, I'm just talking about this situation during the state of emergency and, behold, I'm taking the opportunity to commend him in that sense. So then we found another enemy. They were doctors... I mean, you found it, so you don't get me wrong. So you've found another enemy, and these are medical workers who've been acting a little bit, according to what you've been communicating with the public that they've been acting irresponsiblely. A completely inappropriate province secretary, Gojkovic, addressed the public by accusing a dentist from Novi Sad of knowingly and deliberately spreading the infection by refusing to accept the fact that Corona had the virus, although it finally proved true that this dentist had addressed many doctors, that he had been returned. So such failures must be condemned precisely by the ministers, the Prime Minister and all others. So you can't just accuse people, especially if you know that they're in medical care and that they've certainly, after the first symptoms, turned to help. Unfortunately, this dentist has passed away and it is my duty today as a national letter to address the public and to say that such a failure occurred that he died, unfortunately, and because of his family, it is a young man who has three children, it is important that in the House of the National Assembly any suspicion that he was responsible for what happened. Then we found a third enemy, or you found a third enemy, they're foreign returnees, and there's as many as 400,000 among them, as you said, I don't have that information exactly, and I'm going to have to take your word for it. So these are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who for various reasons have left our country. They don't come back because they were bored out there, but they come back because they may have had an insecure job, unsecured health care, and it's normal and natural to return to their home country. It is normal and natural to welcome them with open arms and to tell them - you are welcome here, please, for the sake of your health and for the health of all the other citizens you have contact with, sit in your homes, explain the procedures, what you need to do exactly. We didn't have one, we had a few cases that spoke to the public that simply when they crossed the border they didn't get a clear direction on what they were supposed to do. One of the people who crossed the border and was in isolation is my mother-in-law. She was 28 days in isolation and had been visited by police officers, had calls at some point when she might not have expected it, precisely to check that she really respected the self-insulation measures. But there is a large group of citizens who have crossed our country's border, who have not received such instructions. We can't put on them the responsibility of those people who had to inform them properly. That would be about communication and I wouldn't go any further on that. I hope, since this state of emergency, the question is whether and when it will end, and certainly not that Corona will disappear on her own, I would very much like to see the communication towards the citizens change, to respect them, to perhaps even this decision that has been made and to be tied to the early holidays, to change, but to have a lot of respect for the citizens and to ask that the moment of freedom they may not have, for their own sake, because of their loved ones and their families, to think primarily of themselves and their loved ones. At the very beginning of the emergency situation, two shorter economic measures were taken, so, two short-term measures, stimulation for the work of doctors and pensioners received short-term assistance of several thousand dinars. It's all very commendable, with me truly, Minister Loncar, still having to speak to you and the Prime Minister, I'm sorry that the finance minister isn't here, that stimulation is very short-term. In fact, 90% of our doctors receive less profits than they received before the state of emergency came into effect, because the circumstances in which they work have changed. I have a personal example in my environment, as well as a lot of doctors who confirm this to me. So, it's just the stimulation, which is short-term, and I think, if we don't think that way, that all doctors who are dealing with Coronavirus today don't leave the second we say that the pandemic has stopped, that we should think much better about how much of their profits will be and that our thoughts, thoughts and thoughts of both this government and each future government focus on the budget being dominantly focused on one of the two issues that will concern the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that, above all, is health protection. There was also a question of solidarity, particularly international solidarity. We've had very big abuses here. Thank you for having the defence minister here, but I have to make an absolute criticism of his work and the comments he made in public, which is that, despite his powers, he is a defence minister and may be his duty and the Constitution allows him to recommend a declaration of state of emergency, but surely the Constitution does not allow him to communicate in public a different foreign-political strategy than the one that is official, which is that Serbia follows the path to the European Union. Perhaps their personalaffinities are not so, but he is not in the position of the minister as an individual, but he represents all the citizens of this country, and all the citizens of this country have decided that Serbia wants to be found as a full member of the European Union. I don't want this to be attributed to us right now that we're some kind of Euro-fanatics, we're very rational MPs, and we know perfectly how much support we've been getting to declare the pandemic with Coronavirus and now during this state of emergency and thank all the other states that have come to the hands of Serbia and helped when many others may not, but the numbers are there. I will once again, and we are as a united democratic Serbia and have referred on several occasions, insist that all donations addressed to the Republic of Serbia be made public, so that we know in what way and how practical and how much we are obliged to show solidarity to those countries in some future period, if necessary. Unfortunately, there is no Minister Djordjevic today, and I thought of him when I said that, for my part, he was unjustly absent. Unwarranted because he was on a TV yesterday. So he had to find himself here to explain how it came to get the virus into nursing homes and create the kind of disaster he'd created. Maybe there's a valid reason, maybe he has an explanation for why it happened, but, I could only say that from the corner of me, not only as a folk's letter but also as a citizen, it seems to me that he escaped from this debate. I have a very serious commendation for the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all on the work of the Ministry of Education. A very good time was when a very large number of children had to stay at home and be educated under other circumstances. This has shown one other advantage that we can take advantage of when we think in other circumstances rather than extraordinary, about changes in education, which is that everyone can really work on unique textbooks and that digitization is not something that scares children or teachers. The children have shown one serious responsibility. I'm the mother of two girls who go to elementary school and I know how well-organized and taught through television. They're wonderful teachers. I could name them now. I follow them all on a regular basis. But they are also wonderful teachers who support them and who teach them regularly, who are in their primary and secondary schools. Economic measures, I'm at the end of time, and please, if I can just communicate, we've had the biggest grudges in the area of economic measures. We've sent you as Prime Ministers and Ministers of our proposals. Some are adopted, some aren't adopted. The main regret is that these measures are quite late. One of the measures that may be most discreet to us is the linear division of these 100 euros. It seems to us to be a populist act or perhaps concerned that something will happen ahead of the election and will affect the ruling coalition's rating. We think it could have been arranged differently. It seems to us that the way citizens have to apply to get 100-euro support is quite humiliating, especially because it leaves a lot of data.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73590	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73591	I will. Thank you. I'll just ask you to finish this part. So the rest is kind of unsaid. We wish that the promise made at the beginning was fulfilled, which is that all citizens get 100 euros, so let it cost us how much it costs, but that's also the price of pulsism that was placed. I wouldn't go any further. I've got something else. Finally, just to thank again on behalf of united democratic Serbia all doctors, all health workers, postmen, people who have dealt with logistics and merchants and all those MPs who are here today. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73592	Thank you. Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73593	Yesterday's session began with a minute of silence together as the National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia, not individually, for all victims, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who lost their lives. I have to point that out. Otherwise, each of us could get up, maybe give a personal example of losing someone in his family, in his environment, and this is how we all did it in a dignified way, as is the appropriate moment for us to meet, and given the pains felt by the families that lost someone. So this is yours I appreciate, but it was an absolute surplus, in my opinion. This is where it came from, I'm really going to say something wider when the time comes. I'm on the list there on the eighth, ninth, tenth, as they've already lined me up. But all I want to do is answer the MPs who read it seems like only members, so part, then half the sentences that suit him. Otherwise, the regulations are interpreted by the constitution in general and by the whole member to whom it is called. Someone who's not a lawyer I allow to interpret in layman's terms, but then please listen to your profession. The emergency situation has been introduced in accordance with Article 200. Not according to the member. 200, and half of the sentence of the one that I like or any of us or any of the laymen who know today what a state of emergency is and interprets it however they please. Whether the Constitution is broken or not can tell the Constitutional Court. And he'll say it. All has been done in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the declaration of emergency in accordance with Article 200. Nothing else has been done here but as stated here in our Constitution and in accordance, of course, with the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which no one, apparently, from the predecessors of the speakers and yesterday and today neither quoted nor looked. How's today's session scheduled? That was also a question. Show me the rules of the Rules of Procedure as to how the emergency session is scheduled. I'm also interested in seeing which provision is exactly broken, and not in general, someone says, "Well, this is broken, it's broken." What exactly is broken? What exactly is it? I'm interested in that. If it's addressed to my account, then I'm interested in exactly which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken at this point. (President: Bringing the end. ) It says no calls, no agenda, nothing when it's a state of emergency. None of you have the strength to say that - even though it is written in the Rules of Procedure, it is only condemnation for condemnation, as if one of you had found something that was not written. The Law on the National Assembly says when something is not written how it is handled. Everything has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (President: I thank you. ( ) Just let me, since I listen for a day and a half to what's wrong with calling a session and why the Assembly didn't put in a state of emergency on its own. Just in line with all our discussions that we heard yesterday – because of the responsibility for people's lives, the congregation did not sit, because you keep talking about responsibility for people's lives. At the beginning when the epidemic started, when we didn't have enough masks, when we didn't have tests, when we didn't have gloves, to summon not 250 people, 500, 600 people were supposed to attend a session to do something for us. Which of you would have the courage and responsibility for people's lives to call a session of order. (Saša Radulovic: Everyone. Oh, yeah. You who haven't been to the meeting for two years. Don't, please. Everyone, smile. So none of your arguments stand for that. Let me tell you something, in the moments when you have lamentated on the team, whether it was necessary for the session to be convened or in accordance with the Constitution, respecting the Constitution, to use the right to convene in another way, but in accordance with the Constitution and Article 200, rather than otherwise, one of the MPs had the established presence of the Coronal Virus. Is that what you wanted? No, I don't. Unlike many others, I respect people's privacy. Did you want us to sit here in the hall with an MP who could risk lives tomorrow, if not you bravest, then your loved ones? Then what would be my responsibility, the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the responsibility of the Prime Minister for it? I think we'd all be buried. (President: I thank you. The conditions have been met, and today we are in session and we will continue to discuss everything. We just can't talk about the unbearable ease – you should have called a session without knowing the essence of why the session couldn't be. I am responsible for the letter I sent to the president of the state that the session cannot be held at that time. I stand responsibly behind this, and if there's anywhere to indicate who had the virus, and if we know, and we probably don't even know from the employees at that moment what happened, that person will testify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73594	The People's MP, Tatjana Macura, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73595	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr. President, for coming down to replicate to me. It's, I have to admit, and it's a great honor, given that we're all somehow the same here, but you're the first among the equals. In that sense, therefore, I am still standing behind the fact that she could convene a session of the National Assembly within the time limit, perhaps not within 48 hours, but there were certain technical circumstances for it to be convened, perhaps within a shorter period of 44, 45 days than it has been since the introduction of the emergency. So, the 21st century and I know for a fact that you've had the opportunity to talk to the vice presidents of the Assembly, and that's also public opinion, you've been consulting via online session. There were no obstacles to inviting the president of Parliament clubs to the same consultations, so that you can hear the mood among all the MPs, because we, as presidents of Parliament clubs, have knowledge of the mood among MPs, whether there is someone who may be infected with the virus between us or in our immediate surroundings. With that in mind, we would certainly remove the fear that there are no health circumstances good enough for us to meet in one way or another. As you have now interpreted the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will look again at it. Yes, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides the possibility of broad interpretation. Among other things, there is the term "electronic Parliament" in the Rules of Procedure, which we use at committee sessions and it seems to me that we could have made a small adjustment, when I say small, above all, I think of representatives of the IT community who could have removed this obstacle and that the MPs, if not physically in this room, could have met at some online session and that in the 21st century, it was not impossible. If nothing else, we have an opportunity to see how our children are educated and in that sense there was no obstacle. I understand the circumstances in which your personal fear is being maintained, and I understand the fear of all those who are in the executive power today, and that is why I do not want to make any sensation out of this subject. So, I'm just gonna say once again that there was a possibility and I'm sorry it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73596	The People's MP Maja Gojkovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73597	I have no fear, but concern and responsibility. It's completely different. I'm not afraid for my life, don't worry. Don't worry about anything, even though it's not forbidden to fear for your life. Let's take care of someone else all the time. It is not forbidden to fear, but when you are president of the National Assembly, then you have responsibility and you have concern, not only for the MPs. There are hundreds of people working here. This is where the press and the cameramen work. This is where the firemen work. This is where the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior work. This is where doctors work. We can't get together on our own out there virtually. Tell me how many of the 250 MPs are able to participate online in the sessions. What would debates look like for a few days online? What would that look like? That's what I'm really interested in, no followers? Give me an example of the parliament sitting in the presence of 250 members of parliament in the world. They all had a thing for each other. They've called the 10 heads of parliament to determine two MPs, so who would agree to that here? You? You would choose one MP or those who stand on the stairs? Or do those who invite citizens out Thursday night on the street because they have no responsibility for their lives? They would choose an MP, and for two years they don't know what parliament looks like, except when they write to the colonel in Brussels. What if the colonel doesn't have anyone to write? If I were to call up sessions where I would conduct an experiment in vivo, so whoever lives on us 250 plus all these people who are obliged to work, because we can't go into parliament alone and talk like this, so you'd be criticizing us, ambushing us, not ambushing us. You can see that one through one. Virtual sessions? I am very interested in how this will look in the future and how one of you in parliament will choose two, three MPs to stop by the parliament and we will, like all of us, agree to make one decision. I wasn't answering for purely private reasons. That's why there weren't any of those colleges, and that's why there weren't any sessions. But that's where I stop from crossing the border of decency. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73598	You have no right to the replica of your colleague Radulovic. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73599	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your correctness, because it seems to me that you have shown your work many times what constructive criticism looks like and thank you for that because that is how we give citizens the best possible solutions. I also have to say that you listed a few things that I think are extremely incorrect, so I'll try to answer them. First, as for these easier topics and easier things, I decided not to have all the ministers present at the assembly session again because we are trying to have as few people present here as possible because of the physical distance. I called for those ministers to be present with me today and yesterday, or this session, who seem to me to be the most relevant from their portfolios and have worked most to solve a series of problems that we have had during this crisis. For all other things, I can certainly provide additional information, so it's not necessary for each individual minister to be here. So the only idea of leadership was to have as few people present as possible. As for the united debate, I would not allow it to say that we are going back to the practice of a united debate, which in this assembly, as far as I remember, always existed, no matter who was in power over the years, except when we reached an agreement that, with an explicit request, the insistence of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic that the Government no longer sends anything by emergency procedure and that we do not go to united debates, which was a major challenge for us, but we fully respected it. So this is a state of emergency, it's an emergency situation, which is why we now have a united debate so that it doesn't get unnecessary, it seems to me, exposed to an additional risk, because this isn't safe either. This is as safe as possible, as soon as possible. So I assure you that as far as the Government is concerned, we will not return to a united debate in emergency procedures, etc., and I also think I am proud that the only government that has sent the budget as a single item of the agenda, ever, I think, and that this Assembly has had twice the time to discuss the budget. So I don't think that's correct to say, and if I understand that you didn't claim it, it's your concern. I can assure you, as far as the government is concerned, we will not return. Two important things. I fully agree with you, 100%, that if there is a moment, a moment from World War II to today, if there is a time for MPs to be in the Assembly that it is now, I absolutely agree with you. I think that the moral and human obligations of all the MPs were to participate in this debate, all of them, that the human and moral obligation was that those who boycotted this assembly, but did not boycott the wages to attend today and yesterday, that is, this session that is currently being held, attend. I think it was human respect for the victims, for their families, for this country, for all its citizens. I'm sorry it's not like that, but they've once again shown their face in the ugliest way possible. Also, we are talking about people who have used this situation for two months, the biggest crisis in Europe, in the world since World War II, that they are always calling for the Assembly to be held and to criticise why the Assembly is not being held, and all the time knowing that they will continue to boycott and that they do not care how safe or not safe it is for the MPs who are to be gathered here and for all those people who have to work to keep the Assembly, so that the Assembly session will also be held for their families, because they will not put themselves in danger, either themselves or their families, but they could criticise for two months. For two months, they could lie and once again say that today, in a daily paper, I read again that I, as Prime Minister, said that the government is not ready to criticise on social networks. No, we're ready for criticism, we're ready for any kind of criticism. On lies and false news, no. No, I refuse, and I will fight against it and all those who have been spreading lies through Twitter and beyond today, and the MPs are, and they couldn't come here now to answer those lies to ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to explain these lies, to admit that they are lying, to lie that we have imported migrants, to lie that we have imprisoned people in houses so as not to see that we have carried migrants by buses, to lie that the Post Office has prepared cards for these migrants, to lie for many, many other terrible things. No, they chose not to come and answer, or to accuse us in the face of these things so that we could answer. You know, once again, I agree with you that if ever since World War II there was a moment, a human and moral obligation to be in this National Assembly that it is now and very easy, it is extremely easy to have a monologue in the hall of the Assembly that no one can answer. It is easy to write lies on Twitter, but it is not responsible and shows a truly amazing degree of cowardice and I will tell you, yes, they are liars and the most common cowards. You're just a bunch of cowards. Branka Stamenkovic throws. He may give you a replica, ma'am, when I'm done, but please let me finish. Most common cowards because only a coward can stand in the hall and have a monologue when he's in his place, he's bound and paid to be here, to face me as Prime Minister, telling me everything he's accusing me of on Twitter and me and President Alexander Vukic and then I can answer that, but they've once again shown their coward face. Were we ready as a state? Well, I said yesterday, and I'm going to say again today, no country in the world has been prepared for this, either. The World Health Organization wasn't ready either. No one was ready for this, but as a country, thank God, we were more prepared than many. And not because we've been preparing for this epidemic or pandemic or not because we've been preparing for this virus and this kind of fight, but because we've been working hard since 2014 to prepare the state for every possible crisis. That's why we were more prepared than many. Thank you for saying that we've been very good at education. I think that's where we set the example for many countries to do it. But as I didn't agree yesterday, and I rebelled against someone saying our health system didn't fall because we were lucky. I wouldn't agree with you if we had a good deal on this, because it has nothing to do with luck or getting along. It only has to do with a really hard day-to-day, multi-year, hard work. We would not have been able to cope if we hadn't been working on the reform of the system, so, system changes in education since 2017, if we hadn't worked on introducing digital classrooms, digital textbooks on an electronic diary, on an e-enlightenment, we couldn't manage. So this is the result of everything we have done in education since 2017, and our health system has nothing to do with happiness, but it has to do with everything Alexander Vukic has done since 2014. So, it has nothing to do with happiness, nor knowledge, and if I can send a message to the citizens of Serbia and to us as a society, as a country, which is -- never rely on happiness or accomplishment. The result gives only hard work, only hard work and complete commitment to what you do and personal responsibility, personal responsibility at this time in this fight. Now, as for some things that I think were completely incorrect. Critics in our way of communication and said we had three enemies as government. We didn't have three enemies, we had one enemy COVID-19, and during this whole struggle, we had only one enemy, and it was the Corona virus. And that is why President Vukic, at the very beginning of this struggle, urged us all to put politics aside together and focus as a society on only one common enemy COVID-19. You say these three enemies were citizens, medical workers and people from the diaspora. That our communication upsets the citizens. I don't think that, as you said, we were yelling at the citizens, I remember we were praying, I remember we were appealing, and I remember that we might have upset them by threatening our Italian or Spanish script, but he really threatened us. As a society, as a country, we had all the predisposition to go through the Italian scenario, and I think it was only responsible by President Vukic and by the government to warn the citizens that if we don't follow the measure of self-insulation, social distance, we're going to have an Italian scenario and that, if it upsets the citizens, I apologize to them this way, but I think it was necessary for them to understand the dangers. And again, we get into that hypocrisy where, when Alexander Vucic says, he's threatening the Italian scenario, he's causing a panic, and when "New S" has a whole interview with a man who says it's almost certain that there's going to be an Italian scenario in Serbia, because our citizens are crazy, then it's not a cause of panic, it's not an harassment of citizens and it's not an insult of citizens, and we as a society have to deal with it, and we all have the courage to say that there's something hypocrisy, to call it a hypocrite, and we're not afraid just because our political opponents and the tycoon media have so much money at our disposal and because we know that they're going to pay us back because of all these resources 10 or 20 stronger. It's our duty to say that and be brave enough, responsible enough to call things our real name. Medical workers, enemies, to say that we identified medical workers as other enemies just because someone said that one person, knowing that she was sick, spread that virus, I really don't remember it, and I apologize for it, it's really tense, I would say. So, I don't think that stands. If there's anything heard from the beginning, it's a huge, huge, huge thank-you to all the medical workers, all the support, and at the end of the day, they seem to have said it themselves. All this other stuff, you have to see it with the person who said it, so it can't be attributed to the government or the president, and I think it's extremely incorrect to say that one of the enemies at one stage of this whole thing that we've identified medical workers, because it really doesn't stand, is not true, and it's not nice to say. The people in the diaspora, I also talked about it yesterday, so we urged these people not to come to Serbia and if you ask our medical workers today, let's say in Kovid hospitals and what they brought to crisis headquarters, people have urged us to invite our people to stay where they live and work, to stay because if you have 400,000 people who enter Serbia within a month and a half, and out of that 400,000 is only 10% sick, it's a blow to our health system that can't or very hard to endure. Let's not talk about people who are in Serbia at all. Yes, I think it was responsible that we urged them to stay. I think it was safer for them, too, but at the same time, as I said yesterday, the country that helped most people who still insisted on returning from as much as 37 humanitarian, almost free flights. It's no other state, no other government did it. So I think we've set some extra standards here, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73600	I'm sorry to interrupt. It is very important, I call on Members to respect the measures under which we hold the meeting. So, put the masks back on your faces, you have to use them in the O.R. or I will be forced to take a break because these are the measures under which we hold this session and the measures of our country's crisis headquarters. I won't continue the session, because you're jeopardizing the lives of all of us here. What it is like, that most of the messengers adhere to every measure, and someone gives himself the freedom to sit in the hall, and not to use any mask, nor to speak, nor to the gloves. The ones that can. That's why we have these protections to better hear, but it takes a while. You don't care about your lives, your rights, but you endanger everyone else here. Put your masks on your faces and gloves. You got them at the entrance. You didn't even want to measure the temperature. Because of these MPs, the way you measured the temperature was changed, he wouldn't take your temperature. What are you doing now? He refers to MPs who have been sitting in the O.R. for a long time, not using masks or using gloves. There's the Minister of Health. That's not what we're discussing. Health and life protection measures are not discussed. Masks and gloves. Yeah, yeah, all of them. I don't need to speak individually. Everybody sees it in the O.R. Everyone draws attention to me, sends me messages, turns around, vice presidents draw attention to me. (Vojin Biljic, throws from the scene. What's this all about? Because you're okay? Because we need tests to run or what? I don't understand that behavior. Childlike behavior. I'm talking about all MPs who don't use masks and gloves. What right is greater than the right of all of us to protect our lives and human health? Who rightfully allowed individuals to do so? Who gave it to you? Then you're running for Bundestag. I don't know what the health situation is in the Federal Republic of Germany. I don't do that. What you're looking at is your business. I'm telling you about the situation in our Parliament. (Vojin Biljic, throws from the scene. ) I ask MPs who do not want to follow the measures for some of their incredible reasons to leave this session because they do not agree with the way this session works. That's ridiculous. You're asking why we haven't held a session before, why we're not this, why we're not that. You're the first to care. You don't care about us. Do what you want with your lives. With the lives of the employees of this House, with the lives of the cameraman, your other colleagues will not play. You came here today to make an incident. It's the only policy you have. Put on your masks and gloves and let's continue the session. I'm not ready to discuss government measures at all. I respect my country. I can be in power, I can be in opposition. There was an emergency. I also respected the state of emergency that was called in 2003, whether I agree or not, I simply respect this country. That's what you'll do, whether you support the government or you're in opposition. The rules apply to everyone. As laws in the state apply to everything when they are passed. This is a state, a serious state. Thank you for understanding the message. We can continue the debate now. Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73601	Thank you. Thank you, of course, for your reaction. I think it's the only right thing. This monumental irresponsibility by some MPs, to set an example like this that you do not need to wear a mask, protective equipment in a closed space, and you are a MP. There are human things that are sad. I apologize for talking a little longer. There were a lot of topics that I think are important. One of the most incorrect things you've said is that we've run a functional campaign during this state of emergency. I am going back to where Aleksandar Vukic, as president of the Republic, asked us not to deal with politics during the state of emergency and during the fight against Kovid 19, said he would not answer the charges, that during the emergency situation and the fight against the Coronavirus there were no other enemies and political inexperiences, but only one enemy, which is Kovid 19. Over two months never, but indeed never, here I beg anyone to find an example, never mentioned any political opponent by name, not by political party, group, alliance, etc., so never. I don't know how you found out there was a functioning campaign. He was going around some hotspots, which I think is his job as president of the Republic, to be with his citizens where it's the hardest and it's the only responsible thing he could do at that moment. To call it a functioning campaign, I don't think it's right. He did his best to get protective equipment, to get respirators in a situation where few countries in the world could get protective equipment and respirators. In this, thanks to him, his political credibility was among the most successful countries in the world, and I think they would criticise him again, however it is. If he hadn't gone, they would have said that he wasn't with his citizens, that he wasn't with his citizens, that he had hidden himself, that he was taking care of himself. So I think the right decision was to go and visit those environments that were most endangered. Another great thing, an extremely important topic you have set in motion, and thank you for that, it is, as you call it, the abuse of international solidarity. I don't think the Republic of Serbia has at any time misused international donations in any way. I think we all thanked each and every one of us, that we told the citizens of the Republic of Serbia exactly who donated what to us when he donated. I see that many people did not like the way we, both in the country and abroad, the way we thanked the People's Republic of China for everything it has done for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia in this. I think we did it the right way. People helped us with everything they could do to help us. They also sent us respirators, donated a significant amount of respirators, treated us as one of the priorities when we bought money respirators from the Republic of Serbia's budget, sent a significant amount of protective equipment, sent a team of medical experts at the very beginning of this fight, which today in Serbia, showed human solidarity. I think they really deserve to be thanked in the way we thanked them. Also, thank you to everyone else. I welcomed the plane of assistance sent by the EU, and I welcomed the plane that paid for the transport, so for the trip, I paid for the EU. I think we thanked both the Russian Federation and Turkey and Hungary and Norway and the United States and everyone else and we also knew how to show our solidarity in both the region and the EU, in a way that Serbia could not do so so so far. Now, I ask for a little attention when we talk about the abuse of this whole situation, this crisis, abuse in international frameworks to get some political points and to accuse our country and to single out ourselves as someone who is, is, is a big European. I do not know how familiar you are with the letter sent by the EU by Dragan Gilas, signed as president of the Freedom and Justice Party and founder, not among the founders, but as founder of the Alliance for Serbia. So, Dragan Gilas, founder of the Alliance for Serbia and the President of the Party of Freedom and Justice, used this crisis to send a letter to EU officials, to complain about his country, to complain about President Aleksandr Vukic, to complain about the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the manner of a child complaining to a teacher, in the manner of a single prosecutor, but the prosecutors to open their eyes to them about what is happening in Serbia. I took it out of a really fascinating letter, I would recommend that everyone read this letter, I singled out only one paragraph where he says, I'll translate it now. The letter is in English, but here, about translation, so, like this – Aleksandar Vukic, it complains that Dragan Gilas EU and European officials, Aleksandar Vukic announced the introduction of an emergency situation with rhetoric – there is no European solidarity, it is just a fairy tale on paper, so that he sues Alexander Vukic, because they do not watch our media, have no EU delegation in Serbia here, so they do not know what is going on in Serbia, but Dragan Gilas to tell them what Aleksandar Vukic told them when introducing an emergency. After this, he announced the introduction of the emergency situation, after which he personally welcomed a team of medical experts from the People's Republic of China, please imagine now, he personally welcomed a team of medical experts sent by people to help us here, and, what I find most fun in this letter, he personally welcomed them and welcomed each and every one of them with a welcome elbow. Imagine what the man writes about the EU. Well, I don't think those people believe, and that, too, I can tell you that I heard from personal sources, that Europeans there were shocked by what condescending losers exist on the Serbian political scene. So Alexander Vukic, with each of them, greets himself personally with his elbow and then kisses the Chinese flag to express his gratitude for all the help and support they sent. Can you believe it? When we talk about abuse of the situation in order to position ourselves in the international arena, I guess, as the only factor that doesn't run away from spitting in that same letter and our neighbours in Hungary and our partners from the People's Republic of China, to do whatever it takes to do to position themselves as, I guess, the only legitimate option these Europeans need to bring to power, because who cares about elections, who cares about the people's will, who cares about democracy in the Republic of Serbia, but you recommend yourself. You are recommending that you spit on all the help and support that someone has sent us in the most difficult times and do everything behind the backs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and secretly while we are here fighting for human lives and every day we lose people in this fight. How the virus got into nursing homes and I'm going to end it, so there's going to be a chance, anyway, I'm going to talk about some more things. Well, it's just that people didn't follow the government's recommendations, that's how it happened. It is a sad example of what would have happened in the Republic of Serbia if we had not had such drastic measures. Sad, example. I also want to tell you that I am particularly proud that the people who did this and put people's lives directly at risk, as soon as we found out all this information, that they were immediately detained, deprived of liberty, and that they would be tried for it. Finally let me tell you, you tell me, we were wrong during this fight. I said, "We were wrong yesterday." That's right. And I didn't come to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I didn't come here to report to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because I wanted to say that we were innocent, but because I wanted to say and show that we fought day and night, that we did our best and that in that fight we were more successful than many others and when we saw the mistake, we immediately worked to correct it. We weren't sinless, we were wrong, but again, the most important thing to do is fight, and I think we've shown it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73602	The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73603	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for your response to the Prime Minister. I'm sorry that she spent most of her time talking about people who are not at all Members of the Parliament, not sitting in the congregation today, and with that, I'm going to go back to what is the subject of today's agenda. The first point that you have referred to on the basis of my presentation is that I resented that the debate is united, and above all this refers to this law that unites all decisions and I am sorry, and now unfortunately Minister Sinisha Mali is not here because there was a need for today to discuss the rebalancing of the de facto budget. So we are adopting a law that will unite the seas of different decisions, including decisions concerning economic assistance, both economics and citizens. There is justifiably a large space to discuss this further. Unless you want to convince me that the budget rebalancing debate will take place in a future period, and then at a special session, and I think Serbian citizens deserve it, we will discuss what economic measures have been taken during the emergency. There's a serious grudge. So we rely most on what the Fiscal Council has also referred to as an independent institution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding economic measures. I'll remind all those who are sitting here and those who are following this session, so in 2008, because of a late reaction, we've come to a situation where we might be in this position right now. So, in order not to repeat the mistake, we will welcome the borrowing you decided on, but we will not welcome the total waste of money by giving Serbian citizens 100 euros in a bid to calm them down, and then humiliate them further, under the coercion that they are actually self-applicating for this assistance. So, as far as the enemy is concerned, I agree, we only have one enemy, that's the Corona virus. I regret that at certain times the government of the Republic of Serbia was looking for some other enemies, practically chasing an excuse. I say again, most humanely, I understand and that the President of the Assembly, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, was practically scared for the lives of the citizens, but I would like to see the communication towards the citizens change absolutely and wipe out those countries that they solve differently... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73604	Thank you. President, you can only get a two-minute replica. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73605	I'll be shorter than that. I haven't been able to say a hundred-euro measure that you say is a populist measure. I will remind you that it is similar to that measure, that is, only with different amounts, of course much larger because they are much richer countries, the same measure as the post-crisis measure brought by Japan, the United States, Singapore and Hong Kong. These are measures of direct financial support to citizens, not populist measures. I am proud, because thanks to what Alexander Vukic did as Prime Minister in 2014, in terms of the fiscal consolidation measure, we are today able to provide such a measure of direct financial support to the citizens even after this crisis. I don't think anyone can answer that, who won't absolutely have to. So it is important that people who don't need those 100 euros don't have to get those 100 euros because it means nothing to them, and those 100 euros don't take anyone else, but they stay in the Republic of Serbia's budget for, after all, everything that all other citizens need. So the more in the budget, the better for all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73606	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours. It's taking too long to discuss. We have to work after 18 hours. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73607	I can't believe I came in line. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is my second state of emergency and I've had one condition of war. Before the war I was a fierce opposition to Milosevic, so much so they had to cut my tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73608	Wait a minute, MP, we're playing a game right now. To get in or not to go in with a mask. I'm waiting for MP Radulovic to show his relationship with all of us. (Marian Risticevic: All right, now he'll come out.) When I speak, he escapes. You want to give me back my time? Of course I'll come back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73609	So, during the declaration of war as a fierce opposition to Milosevic, so much so that my tone was excluded I went among the radarists and I was not an opposition to my country or state leadership. War has been declared, there are no more political reasons for me to fight my country and my government through opposition action. I simply believe that the most dangerous thing was to be with the radar, the so-called "sermic foxes" that were recorded on that invisible plane in their reconnaissance. Well, then the other radar was citing rockets, and so the invisible fell, chiu, chiu, blunt, into a dream oran. Some opposition have fled and done so abroad. It didn't occur to me. Today, some of them or their successors are viewed as the occasional and permanent boycotters of this National Assembly, and suddenly they cared during the state of emergency to be the National Assembly. They didn't come to work for two years, they got paid, and all of a sudden, like -- you know what, they needed a session and so on. Here, I responsibly claim that the state of emergency has been imposed, that the President has introduced the state of emergency in accordance with the Constitution. And what I'm saying you need to check with the Constitutional Court as I've been checking some decisions in 2013 on the Brussels Agreement and so on. But they only care about the story. There's a saying -- what a little snake with its bite of the biggest bull of all. A small virus, which you can't even see under a microscope knocks down nuclear forces, knocks down security council members, knocks down a billion-dollar country by population, a large economic force, a small virus knocks down everything in front of it. Which doesn't bring down the virus, it breaks down the fear of the virus. Where's Serbia? These boycotters who object to us that the measures are too sharp and that the name is too much disease. Well, wait, if the measures are too sharp how is there too much disease? It doesn't apply to each other. What do they want? They want to, and last night they tried, and I resent you, everything in Padinski Skele was supposed to be digging corn, this one that was previously sown. All the Dorcolas guys were supposed to pick up, I don't know if the army was going to take them to Padinski Skele because they can't pay 50,000 dinars. Who can't pay has to do. There's work in the country as long as you like, to fill up those empty pots they're banging at. As far as I can tell, it wasn't done. The law has to be the same for everyone. And those of Dorcool were supposed to be legitimate, Bastac and the team to be legitimateized, punished and to be known and checked. If they accidentally infect someone to match up to 12 years in prison where they put themselves and others at risk of being infected and if they are infected, they must go to prison for up to 12 years, as well as the one in Nis. The objection is that the former SFRJ states have fewer infected than Serbia. Let's agree that the most serious of the former countries in Slovenia is to make a deal. These liars from Croatia and Montenegro don't care, they care about the tourist season, they won't enter anything, just so some tourists come to fill their register, which is from their corner maybe legitimate, but it's legitimate for us to say the same. Let's take Slovenia as the most serious. Slovenia on slightly less than two million, or about two million inhabitants had 83 died. So less than two million. To compare that with Serbia, let's take one area, our AP Vojvodina, which also has about two million inhabitants. In Vojvodina, unfortunately, it was 18. One I cared very much about, and that made me very sad and sad, and today, that's our colleague Blažić, which means that for a million, Vojvodina had nine dead, unfortunately. Slovenia 41.5. Is this a sign that Vojvodina, which had more inflows than the diaspora, had five times less deaths than Slovenia, EU member, money, euro, printed, unprinted, earned, unearned? The fact that one part of Serbia, which I measured, and all of Serbia, if measured, is 22 per million. Slovenia has 41 and a half. All over Serbia, Serbia has twice as many deaths per million people as Slovenia. Let's watch, they're nagging us, globally. The whole world has about three million infected, 210 thousand dead -- 7% compared to the infected. Serbia has something below two, but let's count two. So Serbia is more successful than America, Great Britain, France, etc., where the feet move up to 17%, about eight times. In all the world, Serbia, where the disease is still spreading, comes down to us, is more successful three and a half times than all the world's countries average. If we take Germany as the most serious country, let's see, to the 106 thousand infected, I'm talking about yesterday's data, it had six thousand deaths, it had 75, three and four times more than Serbia. The most serious European country, Germany. It also speaks of the quality of our doctors and nurses who went to Germany to treat them. Germany didn't have a diaspora, it sent some of it to us. They're our citizens and it's not disputed. But again, it had a million inhabitants three and a half times greater mortality than Serbia. Is Serbia, then, with the right, at the end of 2019, Mr. Health Minister, according to European international organisations, classified as 18th country by health system, the quality of the health system and that 14 EU countries have passed, and the situation found in 2013 was 35th and last. It speaks of the quality of our health and that we deserve the past 14 countries. The conduct of a group of opposition I call a "jilasoval corona" group is 619 million. So it's an irresponsible group that cheers for the virus all the time. Their goal is, and they were doing it on Dorcolo, to make the measurements drop, to stretch out the disease, and to have the elections there somewhere in November, December, that the elections should not be, that the government should exhaust itself, drain economic resources, economy, etc. That's the opposition's goal. So, by destroying the earth, by stretching the disease, they come to power. This should be clear to all citizens, that Tadic and his 2012 unfortunates have gathered on the staircase with a desire for the disease to last as long as possible, to reach non-discipline, to reach these elections. Their representative is Tanya Fajon. I propose to Mrs. Fajon, here, that we allow her to be the bearer of the electoral list of the "jilassal crown" coalition. Gilas is known for his care of the elderly. Here, his old man can best show it, that care Gilas had for the old people. Out of that worry, he beat him up a little bit, but it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen, lately she's been banging her sherpas. My message to those who pound pots, if this drought lasts, gentlemen, you won't be banging into pots again. You'll have a practical reason to hit those pots. You've never put anything in those pots, and the sherpas have been manufactured. Agriculture has carried out this time, as well as during sanctions, the burden of social measures. We, while they were pounding into pots and boycotting the state's measures, had our military position in the fields. We've proven at the plant that it's more valuable to have a farm than gold and diamonds. It's more valuable to have food and drink water than to have gold and diamonds, because they don't eat. I kept saying that, and this time it turned out to be true. We were doing the set, asking for permits, praying, etc., while others boycotted the state's measures and tried to keep the disease going for as long as possible in this country, in order to somehow get into power without a choice. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest these opposition men not to beat into empty pots. And they didn't make pots, they just used the cutlers to work out. They're banging into empty pots to fill Gilas' pockets again. I suggest they hit themselves in the head. Empty pumpkins are still heard. That'll be the most successful one. In the end, let me finish. Someone here mentioned Pericle, and I think it's my fellow farmer. Here, three months before the prime minister's murder, is celebrated along with the Red Berets in The Tower, the federal and republican interior minister. That's what they denied. This is also the late prime minister, who visited his police station, then called the Red Beretts, here in The Tower, no lies, no fraud, just to support Mr. Martinovic. Pericle said I'm more afraid of my mistakes than our enemies. So my advice to you is to sharpen the measurements, to document this virus, so that we don't receive more goals in stasis time than we've received in 90 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73610	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73611	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, cannot help but point out at the very beginning that I am incomplete for two months, how long this joint fight against Coronavirus is more than proud of my country and my people, as well as that in my own name, but also in the name of the Socialist Movement, the party I belong to and whose policy I represent in this home, express my gratitude to doctors, all healthcare professionals, members of the military and police, employees of the institutions of social protection, pharmacists, merchants, postmen, and not to list more, because I certainly cannot list all those who deserve our gratitude, all those who have made their immeasurable contribution in this fight, risking their own health, as well as the health of their loved ones. As an MP coming from Temerin municipality, I would first of all like to thank my fellow citizens for their discipline and respect for the measures of protection against the virus, health workers of the local health home who, from the first day of the pandemic, are taking care of all residents of the municipality, the president of Đuri Žigi municipality and the entire staff for emergency situations, especially to thank volunteers, municipal col-centers and volunteers who have been helping their oldest citizens and who have been working tirelessly since day one. An excellent organisation that was immediately joined by members of the local police station, the Red Cross, local communities and the JPY, has contributed to the fact that Temerin, although among the first municipalities with established presence of the disease, even though he had one deceased among the first 10-15 victims of this virus, welcomed today with a single-digit number of infected and with no new deceased. We are all aware of how difficult it is and how dangerous the current situation is in which not only Serbia or the region is, but the whole world, and we all know that only with maximum discipline and only by following the instructions of the medical profession can we come out as winners of this unequal but for us extremely important struggles, because Serbia today is fighting for its future, for the future of each citizen, for their health, but above all for every life in Serbia. We have heard more times during these two days the numbers of the sick, hospitalized and deceased citizens of Serbia, and I am aware, as many Serbian citizens are aware that these figures would be much more unfavourable and worse if the government and the crisis headquarters led by President Aleksandar Vukic and top medical experts had not taken the only possible moves since the first day and had taken measures to protect the citizens of Serbia in the best possible way. Often these decisions and measures were not popular and were not at the will of each individual, but most importantly they were always timely, correct and justifiable. Of course, we did not choose the current government of Serbia here just over three years ago, nor did the citizens elected Alexander Vukic as president of Serbia in a bid to court us and to have empty stories cloud our reality, but to take full responsibility for the future of the state and people to make difficult decisions when needed, to implement the policy presented to us in this room by Alexander Vukic, and then by the presence of Ana Brnabic, a policy that saved Serbia and its citizens from the collapse in which she pushed the former government. It is precisely the policy that has raised Serbia from the ashes, which has been more than humiliated, robbed and devastated for 12 years. It was this policy that created an economically strong and politically stable Serbia. It is this policy that led to today, unlike 10 or 15 years ago, that we can guarantee citizens that during this emergency situation we will preserve the largest number of jobs, guarantee employees their earnings, provide economics and agriculture with financial assistance, provide pensioners with regular pension payments, socially threatened regular payment of aid, and all patients with the highest possible level of health care. It is precisely this policy, in the name and part of Aleksandar Vucic, that, unlike the policy in Serbia eight, 10 or 15 years ago, implemented various Gilas, Jeremici, Tadici, that the health system of Serbia did not kneel, as it led to Serbia having sufficient capacity to house all the sick and that the sick citizens do not lie on the floors of hospital corridors, as was the case in some other countries. It is this policy that led to Serbia providing a sufficient number of safeguards and respirators, so that we do not have to, as some countries, choose whose lives we will save and whose lives we will leave to fate. It's because of that and that policy that Alexander Vukic is responsible for them and will never forgive him. It is Alexander Vukic's fault that we have avoided the mass shortages of food, medicine, fuel, which we have avoided endless rows and beatings of desperate people in shops and malls. It is his fault that Djilas, Jeremic and Tadic wanted and publicly called it that. It's Alexander Vukic's fault and he'll never forgive him because he has everything they don't have, which has knowledge and courage, but most of all, they're wrong about what they'll never have, and that's exactly what hurts them the most, which has integrity and that has unreserved support for the citizens of Serbia. Because of this, various political vultures, depicted in the image and in the Sunday of Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boško Obradovica, Boris Tadic, are assisted by a media factory of lies, called – N1, are every day a bunch of insults and lies, attacking both Alexander Vukic and members of his family, as well as members of the republican government, and all those who, like our best infectators, have stood in the first ranks of Serbia's defence and its citizens. That is why, after the state of emergency is lifted, elections are needed, for citizens to say they are assessing whose claim, to tell whom they are giving their support and trust, and to whom it is high time they end up in a political dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73612	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73613	I thank you for the opportunity, just to make sure I'm as short as possible. First, no country anywhere in the world is prepared and not prepared for the Coronal virus or any virus, and there are all countries the same, but countries differ as some are willing to protect the lives and health of their citizens from any kind of disaster, some simply are not. The state of Serbia is. Here, let me speak from the corner of the army. If this disaster had happened in 2012 or before 2012, the Serbian Army would have worked, the soldiers were such people, they would have always fulfilled their mission and would have done it in the best way and then and now, but then they would have come out with only one broken uniform they had, and today every soldier has two sets of M-10 uniforms and one set of M-93 uniforms. Each one has winter and summer boots. If a member of the Military Police or one of the special units, besides everything I've said, has a winter jumpsuit, summer jumpsuit, winter boots, summer boots, winter leather boots, winter canvas boots, summer canvas boots, plus military shoes. That's why his salary is higher today than it was in 2012, much higher. That's why there are bigger journals, which is why there are many other benefits that are bigger and better. He'd do his job forever, because it's people who love their country, because they're professionals, but the state was ready for them, not for this, but for the system, organized the system. If this had happened in 2012 or before 2012, before Alexander Vukic became defence minister, the military would not have 100% of the stock of food and would not have 100% of the fuel reserves, as it does today, and today there are. We weren't getting ready for fuel, uniforms, wages and everything else for the virus, but we were getting ready for the state, to get the state back to be strong. This is where they talk about how the functional campaign, the state's representatives show up, so who shows up? And who's going to tell us what's to be done? Who's going to tell us how the system works? If Alexander Vukic wasn't where he was supposed to be, they'd say he'd been hiding, not having him, protecting himself, caring for his health and not caring about his nation. Wait, Alexander Vukitch got the respirators, I didn't, neither did the opposition, neither did any of you. Well, that's the only fair thing to say. That's how it is. He did it, he did it thanks to his political ties, thanks to authority and reputation. This isn't about money anymore. Everyone buys them and everyone pays them, but it's a question of who's capable of getting to them. He came to them. Should he be ashamed of that? Shouldn't he be here? Shouldn't the whole of Serbia know who did it? Yeah, he needs to know, because that's how he trusts his country, his society. He has confidence in a system that takes care of each and every one of us. And of course it should be there and pretend it isn't. That's right. And so it would be everywhere in the world and so it should be everywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you know, none of us here are exactly a man, not in power, not in opposition. None of us here are by any chance. There are, they say, some who applied to some competitions, no one suggested them, but the citizens chose them because they wanted to be here. That means we have political responsibility, which means that in times like these, we have an obligation to show our political attitude. Who defended the opposition's representatives to organise their party memberships and say we're going to volunteer? Who told them to show up, say, in the Sports Arena and say, "Here we are, we've come, give us packages, we want to share with the pensioners?" Who kept them from organizing it and doing it? Who kept them from organizing it and doing it? Who stopped them from making statements in that direction? Who kept them from being public like that and saying whatever they had to say? Instead, they wrote letters, complained about the EU, as if it were important and as if what the EU thinks of us is the most important thing. Oh, no, you don't. What is more important to me is what Serbia thinks of us, and what Tanya Fajon thinks, so let her think, let her talk to her voters what she thinks. Who stopped them from taking part in this? Who prevented them from, say, following the example of the German opposition who addressed the Chancellor and said - we are at our disposal, what can we do to help? Who stopped them from being such an opposition, to be such a political thinker? Because, I repeat, anyone who deals with politics, and especially the MPs, those who have representatives in the National Assembly, has a duty, a duty to deal with politics. We are all running to one of the candidates here to give the citizens of Serbia the chance to make decisions for them, to decide their lives, because we believe that our idea is worth it. Well, when are you going to do it if you don't want to do it in a situation like this? When are you going to do that if not now? So now you have to organize your memberships, now you have to organize yourself to come and offer yourself to your country and offer yourself to your country. It was said that we made an enemy of our diaspora. Well, if we made an enemy of our diaspora, where did that diaspora come back? How did she get here? They're our citizens. We received them with the greatest and greatest care and joy. I ask them not to go, that they do not return to those lands that have shown them what they think of them now that it is difficult, that they are eager to get rid of them now that it is difficult, that they have longed to be gone. This government and Alexander Vukic provided not only free planes, but provided corridors and opened highways at a time when the whole of Europe was blocked. We could have said, Hungary and Austria have banned you from moving, what we can do, you're there anyway, stay, here, we'd love to, but we can't. No, they were fighting to get in. For each individual struggled to come here. I'm sorry, no one here paid for the cure from the Coroner virus, one single dinar. No chlorokin here is charged. Whoever came to either a temporary hospital or any other facility in our healthcare system didn't ask him about the book, no one asked him about the insurance base, or if he came from Austria, where he might have paid for it, maybe he didn't pay for the insurance and why he doesn't have it here or has it. Do you have any symptoms? You treat yourself like you're the richest man in the world. Well, that's not in the richest countries in the world. In America, they bury them in mass graves if they don't have to pay. In this Serbia, such a poor, but increasingly better Serbia, no one is buried in a mass grave, no one is left without a cure, no one is left without a bed, no one is left without a respirator. We should be proud of a country like that, not looking for faults in that. All those who came from the diaspora were welcomed with open arms. They're our people. They're our people. They're our people. I'm proud of it and I'm asking them not to go back, because they see that this country is better than the ones they left behind. No one here has ever been charged a single dollar. Here, therefore, and yet no one would say so, so it would not be possible that in 2014 Vukic had not taken those difficult reforms, if we had not passed the Labour Act in this House which was then being crucified by Alexander Vukic, protested against me. If it hadn't been for that, there wouldn't have been this country that was able to buy chlorokin and not charge it to anyone, to provide treatment for anyone whether they had insurance or not, a state that was able to buy and provide every respirator. One of the most expensive things in the health care system is the day on the respirator, and that's why it's not in much more developed countries, because it's expensive, and it's rarely used, and our country said -- nobody dies without it, we fight and we fight and nobody asks how much it costs. If it hadn't been for 2014 where the state wasn't about to be stronger, it wouldn't have been possible. Without those difficult measures, without those difficult decisions, without that policy of Alexander Vukic, this would not be possible, and as you see now it is possible and freely swallow your political pride and say - that's good. It is good that the state of Serbia can treat everything for free. It is good that the state of Serbia can give pensioners 4,000 dinars. That's good. It's a good thing he can give every citizen 100 euros. Whoever wills will, whoever won't, won't. That's good. It's a good thing the state of Serbia can make three minimum profits to everyone. That's good. Say -- that's good, we'll do it better, tell everything what's right to apologize -- we'd do it all better, but it's a good thing this is done and what's done like this. I was criticised here for my relationship with the EU. Thank you to the People's Republic of China, thank the Russian Federation, thank Turkey, thank you EU. I thank you for your help. I thank you for the time when she arrived. I am very grateful to the EU for making it possible for us to buy their medical products now. Thank them. I guess they have enough now, they should have, and now they've remembered us, wonderfully, we'll buy when we can, but I admit it was kind of terribly important to me when the Chinese aid came at the moment when it was the hardest and it was really important for me when the Russian aid came at the moment when it was the hardest. Sometimes help is measured by when you send it, not only how much it is, but also when it arrives. Serbian citizens vote for political parties that have a clear European path and there is no dilemma there, and the government, whose member I am, has a clear policy when it comes to the EU. I don't work against that kind of policy. My views are my views, and I have the right to say that I am grateful to the People's Republic of China, and the Russian Federation, and to Turkey, and to anyone who has helped us, and I will not apologize for that. I have no reason to apologize for the truth. That's true. I'm a Eurosceptic. A Eurosceptic like Boris Johnson, a Eurosceptic like Salini, a Eurosceptic like Sarkozy, a Eurosceptic like many Europeans, and a quote on the death of European solidarity is not the first time spoken in Serbia. It has also been said in Austria and in many other countries and ask the citizens of Italy what they think about European solidarity and how this European solidarity has shown itself in Spain. I won't salt anyone's mind. I want Serbia to be so advanced and so strong that everyone wants it, including the EU. Is it true that our first aid came from China and the Russian Federation? Yes, it is. Where did she come from? Is that what we should be grateful for? We should be grateful. Am I grateful to the EU for all kinds of help? Yes, but don't ask me to pretend that no one else helped us when it did help us and helped us when it was really hard and when it was most needed, and help came from countries that struggled with the crisis themselves. I hope the EU is grateful to President Vukic and Serbia for the help it has sent. I hope that the EU is very grateful for the assistance it has received in Italy, for the assistance that President Vukic has offered to other EU countries as well. Here, Serbia is strong enough to do it. Instead, they will write their letters, insecures in Brussels, hoping that some ambassadors will pardon them, hoping that by some miracle they will come to power, but only without the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73614	Thank you. (Tatyana Macura: Replica. To whom? (Tatjana Macura: Minister Vulin.) Minister Vulin? He's been responding to previous exposure. He claims he wasn't talking to you. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73615	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I had to endure the humiliation of dignity in this assembly, wearing these unnecessary masks. The World Health Organization has shown that they serve nothing. I had to endure the humiliation and violation of constitutional rights, like you many who are imprisoned at the Fair, without any need, pensioners who are imprisoned by houses, all citizens who are closed every weekend without any need. Today, I will not address the part of the government that broke the Constitution here, nor will I address the MPs who have been silent for 45 days about the coup and the violation of the Constitution. You yourself will be able to judge from these discussions so far how serious they are in what they're doing. I'll talk to you directly, I won't comment on their stuff. Fear is great and I understand it, fear is also with you, but we must wake up. A state coup took place in Serbia on 15 March. When a man counter-constitutionally assumes the responsibilities of the National Assembly, it is called a coup in theory. All the congregations in the world are sitting and sitting, up to one. By March 21st, they were working cafes, and then they were still doing hair salons, gyms, bookies. So, everything worked, and the Assembly closed on March 15th. It's obviously a big farce out of this. This decision is made by three individuals at the highest state functions who have decided to take over the responsibilities of the National Assembly against the constitution and declare the state of emergency. Not a single word, my dear citizens, in this anti-constitutional decision has any reason to believe that the Assembly cannot meet. What's the explanation for that? Not a single word. This is the material the MPs received for this session. Not a single word of explanation why the Assembly was unable to meet when all the congregations in the world could meet, when cafes work, when hair salons work, when they do gyms, when they do everything, and the Assembly, they say, could not meet. During World War I, the congregation worked, and she couldn't meet now. Let me tell you, that provision of the Constitution that the Assembly is unable to meet means that bombs fall, that we're occupied, that physically we can't come to the O.R., so that someone can say - this is an occupation, we have to do it and call the Assembly as soon as possible. That's the only reason. This right here is unconstitutional. This is where the President of the Assembly answered us on March 23rd and said it was because Vulin had given the order that more than 50 people could not meet. Today he has orders that two people cannot meet. Why were they doing all this? Here, let me show you. Before March 15th, signatures were collected. So these are SNS photos from March 5th to March 15th, 140,000 people pushed to sign on March 5th to March 15th, while these percentages were read by the Prime Minister – 4.25, 11, 12, 17 and what do you know? This is what it looked like. It put 140,000 people at risk, and it was signed for SNS, SPS, Seselj, Šapić, POX, Chanka and Chomić, the Pledges. These are the myths of that 10, or in that period, SNS mitts. In "Arena" concert for 20,000 citizens. Who do they make fools of? We, respected citizens, make fools. On March 18th, the Serbian Palace held the meeting, and the Assembly cannot meet. The cafes work, and the assembly can't meet, this is where they talk about the election. When they needed elections, collecting signatures, then the virus was funny, and then they declared it more dangerous than the plague so it could delay the election. This is all about the election, and now they're in fashion to show how they won. The assembly can't meet, and this is a picture of 300 SNS activists and no, we couldn't apply. My daughter is a student of molecular biology, no one wanted to call her, signed up to volunteer, just called SNS activists. This is two weeks ago a picture of the SNS, this is a quorum for the next Assembly, the Vukic in front of the bridge, and the Assembly cannot meet. Well, shame on you. So, dear citizens, I know you're scared. But what you don't get through a press conference for party doctors is what everyone in the world already knows, which is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73616	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73617	Are you taking my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73618	It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73619	The time was stopped, so I couldn't see him. I only have one thing to say to you all, shame on you either... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73620	I've been informed by the Deputy Secretary General. He followed closely. (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you all together. Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. The word is Maja Gojkovic. (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you all together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73621	Thank you. Well, well, we all knew the MP would come to make some kind of incident and so on. (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you all together. Who should be ashamed or not, I only have to say as president of the People's... Don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73622	Better put on a mask and gloves than you're putting people in danger here.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73623	Please don't let the MP spit while he's yelling, because... (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you all together. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73624	Please don't. You are jeopardizing Nenad Konstantinovic and Gordana Komic who are in front of you, Mr Radulovic. It doesn't make sense what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73625	Vice President, please don't pay attention, give me time to address the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73626	Sign up, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73627	Thank you. So, I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia. The clowns in the Assembly, of course, never much of a show, but I have to inform the citizens of Serbia that they would not be mistaken, that you took someone's word away. I have to inform the MP that he lost his MP club a long time ago, he was abandoned by almost all MPs, and by our rules he has five minutes. In those five minutes, he said what he said. No one understood him, though, but what do we do now? It's his right to say whatever he wants. The way the paper puts up with everything, the microphone in parliament seems to be suffering everything. Just to tell him, since today's a hit statement is that Germany, I don't know, Bundestag ambush, ambush and ambush. But he did not say one thing - that the opposition, along with the ruling majority in Germany, agreed that only a few MPs participated in the meeting, which is absolutely impossible for us in Serbia, because with us the opposition will not agree on anything in Serbia at the time of the crown and we are a unique state in which part of the opposition violates all rules and invites citizens of Serbia to rebel, to pound into pots. So we can't compare to Germany. But if we compare, then let's say it lasts in that parliament to discuss what they're going to do with the quorum now. They agreed to have fewer, but it still takes a discussion on how to find a solution now to have a quorum in the Bundestage. So when Sasa Radulovic speaks he speaks superficially, gets up, yells at all of us, takes off his mask, throws away a mask, we have some sort of game of ignorance, goes away and along with the Two doesn't even cross the censorship for the Belgrade elections. You can imagine what kind of debacle he's going to experience in the next election, because now even the Dwari won't go with him. In Germany 6,314 people died, 160,000 were infected. It is Germany he is calling on and our parliament should do everything the same as they do. It is 37 times more dead than in Serbia, and there are 11 times as many as Serbian citizens. So many experts are saying that a small Serbia should compare to a great Germany that has its own way and way of working. Why do we have to keep comparing ourselves to anyone? On March 15th, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sent a letter and explained the reasons why he felt he could not hold a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but he does not care. I say, a man without a parliamentary club, a man with no percentage of the support of Serbian citizens must find a way to draw attention to himself, and for seven days he has planned to do these few seconds of stupidity and make us less uneasy, because this is not even funny. This is tragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73628	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73629	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic earlier said he did not want to address either members of the government or the MPs, but rather to address the public. Let's remind the public what kind of circus this is actually about. Sasa Radulovic, who says someone committed a coup because a man who was part of the government with people who today claim to have committed a coup. Sasa Radulovic is talking about someone collecting signatures, and I have reported to the team, because in this context he also mentioned the SRS. To remind us that he participated and continued to participate, his MPs, in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and that the elections had been made and that the Regional Commission had allowed them to do so without enough signatures. We also remind that he has formed his MP group in time, i.e. he has asked on Twitter to report volunteers for the parliamentary list, and then they have done some surveys, and then he, you see how smart, broad-minded a man is, and he has determined who can be on that list and today they are also via Twitter trying to convince people who communicate on Twitter, which is absolutely legitimate, against which I have nothing, and I am one of the tweeters, to represent that they are the smartest in the Republic of Serbia, in the National Assembly because they have called on the Assembly, the MPs to meet. I don't really know how he meant to do it. So Sasa Radulovic is a man with so many stains in his professional career. We Serbian radicals are known for thinking that there should be absolute freedom in the National Assembly and that the MP can say whatever he thinks he has to say, but to play, to play round, to sing in the National Assembly, that at a time of emergency when every citizen on the street should wear a mask and gloves, when every citizen in a closed area has to sit with a mask and gloves. There are also members of the Crisis Staff here, and I recommend that in the future it be an obligation to sanction whoever shows up without a mask and without gloves, not because we protect the life of someone irresponsible, but because we protect the lives of responsible people. Sasa Radulovic and his team did what they did today and what they sat in the hall in this way made a serious incident that could endanger all 200 and how many MPs who came here to work seriously and to make political views of their political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73630	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73631	Thank you. Let me tell you, there is political correctness and there is a personal responsibility and a human duty and I must say to this gentleman, although it may not be politically correct, it is my human duty, not as Prime Minister, but it is my human duty to tell him – Mr. Radulovic, your madness has advanced and is out of control. It was my human duty. My duty as Prime Minister is not to let you, not to let you belittle all human victims, all the people we've lost, above all in the Republic of Serbia, and then all the human victims across the globe that you're demeaning by saying that this virus doesn't exist, that the danger doesn't exist, that this all didn't happen. You demean them, their families, insult and demean all our health workers who fight, who are on the front line, who risk their lives, the lives of their families, you demean all experts and all those who have lost in this fight, and we all know someone like that. And I won't let you do that. Once again, Mr. Radulovich, please go get well. So I don't mean this as an insult, I mean as human advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73632	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73633	I'll just have one sentence. Everything the Prime Minister has said is absolutely my position. I believe in medicine, I believe it's only possible to heal if there's a will. I just want to point out one little thing that the citizens of Serbia know. This man, who acted like this, insulted the MPs of the people, of course boycotted the congregation, did what he did. In 2019, it came from the National Assembly, from the budget of all Serbian citizens on behalf of the group of citizens it was enough, and not the water was won by 86,058,002 dinars in parliament. So, as far as madness is concerned, they're not that crazy when it comes to money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73634	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Now the word has Maria Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73635	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the government, Prime Minister Brnabic. All the time, somehow yesterday I expected this list of speakers to start and I was getting ready and I have to admit that yesterday with one feeling I came to parliament, today the second day of the session I have a very third feeling. I hope the viewers who follow this transmission and those who follow through the media won't go with the bitter feeling that mine is right now. It's a feeling that we're not aware enough, all of us in this room, not only of the opposition to what's happening to us in Belgrade outside this building and across Serbia, of course the region of the world. This isn't gonna be a pathetic story. We people are kind of cursed. We have this feeling of expectations, some prejudice. We don't have a problem with people, we actually have a problem with our expectations of people. My expectations were upon arrival during yesterday's parliament that we would really use this story of new normality. It's about the new normality in which we're going to move on. About how both Serbia and the region and the world will no longer be the same, how we will behave differently, how we will be forced to behave differently. Different behavior means that our way of thinking is different and that we are more aware of the dangers and that, in fact, we are aware of the risk of changing behavior. In order to be aware of the risks and to change behavior we need to know the exact data, we need to know if mortality is really as the opposition say in the Hall of the Assembly. Why didn't they come here to talk about it? To say in the face of Lonchar, Minister of Health and to tell them whether it's true or not. I refer to him as a man who reads these data every day. Of course, Prime Minister Brnabic, also other members of the government. But it is not the same as Prime Minister Brnabic said cowardly to speak somewhere behind the back in the media when no one can answer you and when that lie you spilled went to thousands, hundreds of thousands of homes, to millions of people arrived that Serbia is the worst mortality in the world, in the region, that everyone is better than us. Who's going to correct that information? You're going to say, what does anyone care at the end how much mortality is, I'm interested in my family, my neighbors, my friends, my colleagues, we're fine. That's what I'm thinking. I'm looking at these people who are yelling here, who don't want to wear a mask. I'm not just wearing it right now, so you can hear me better. I have to tell you the truth, I'm not comfortable. I'm thinking about us having about 400 employees helping the work of parliament, us 250, about a hundred journalists were in parliament's hall yesterday. Calculate, it's something like 800 people who are in a small space. This Parliament has big spaces and is circulating some air, and I'm not sure if any of us are going to get sick? It's not a story of fear, I'm not afraid, my job is like you said, we're politicians and public figures and we have to bear responsibility, but think about the weight of your statements, have we shown solidarity, support at a difficult time? If we have shown a harmony, have we told the people, and this is the National Assembly, have we told the people, raise your head, be courageous, be patient. Being in a home, not seeing your parents, your loved ones, is the most you can do at this point. I'm not sure how families of medical workers work, people who work in the military, police, different kinds of deliveries, communal services, what it looks like when Dad or Mom come home from work and it takes them half an hour before they hug their loved ones, because they need to fix it. Guys, we forgot what ordinary life is and what it looks like. Here, we've been in parliament for two days, we've all taken off gloves and masquerade masks and Mrs. Gojkovic warns us not to forget each other. This morning coming to work, I see in Belgrade rarely anyone wearing masks and gloves on the streets. We relaxed, and as one colleague said, don't let now that we seem to have made a good result in the first half, on this break until the next step to make bad moves. You know, that number of 168, I'll be wrong, but around that number, the number of deceased victims of the Corona virus, are you unhappy? That's a little bit, so you think the measures are stupid, that they have no purpose, that you're holding people by force there? Have you forgotten thousands of deaths a day in Italy and Spain? Is that supposed to happen so that you say -- these measures are excellent, Vukic suggested well as the President of the Republic. The Serbian government did well, we never arrived, and I hope we won't make it. I don't know, I don't know what's smartest, I don't know if the measurements are strict enough or too strict. It's up to me to follow the information every day, as someone who needs to worry about whether everything was by law and rule. But ask yourself, do you have enough information on how many people in the Crescent headquarters have? I don't think you do, and I don't think that at this moment, when they were entrusted with trust, when they were given confidence that they were making decisions about how the state would function in accordance with our health and health of all Serbian citizens and all those 400,000 who were welcome, as you said with great care, great responsibility and concern for their health. We need to be serious, responsible, support people who at this point have an obligation to make decisions about the functioning of our country. Usually when something as good as it goes we forget that someone responsible for this job is doing a good job and we're not sure how good things he's done, he's made good decisions that preceded the final decision. We're not sure, but we should trust them. This is one of the moments when we showed confidence, I'm not saying that criticisms are not welcome and are not desirable, it is the work of the opposition and I'm sorry that it's not the whole opposition here, but at one point I came to say – is this "The Village worse, and Grandma is combing"? Does it burn in Serbia, and do the opposition insist at all costs on all the details right now? Is the assembly called today, tomorrow, 40 days later? I understand that we have to follow the rules, but nowhere in the world, no one in the world has had a prescribed Rules of Procedure or rules of conduct in this kind of pandemic, so we adapt. For that, when we end the state of emergency, when conditions are created, to the fullest extent possible, we check everything that has caused your doubts, all sorts of tenders, purchases, spending money, all the measures that have been put in place, and if it's too late for you, why didn't you come out today with better suggestions? I agree that you don't like it, it would be weird if seven million people at the same time thought everything was fantastic and couldn't be any different. It's not there, nobody expected it, but I expected it when you say it – this is not good for you, I think you should do this and explain why your proposal is better. I think the pensioners should come out. Well, it's immediately explained to you that pensioners would seem to be out there all the time meeting with the rest of the population and being explained to you in detail. When we said that they now have 18 hours of 01 hours pensioners half an hour to get out, why am I worried about that too? Because in the polls, I heard the pensioners say -- and who's gonna check me out for 30 minutes. No one's going to check on you, I'm sorry you want to cheat on the system, because the system is watching over you. By cheating on your system, you're cheating on yourself, and you're opening up the possibility of infecting yourself. No one's going to control you, you have to say it yourself - I need 15, 20, 30 minutes to walk, I'm coming back. People said, "How are we going to check out any other measure than what was given?" Indeed, it is the story from the beginning – how desperate I am, how in us it has already been formed as a line on how to deceive the system. The minute you cheated on the system, you cheated on yourself. That's the story, which is why the measures need to be sharper, because I'm not sure that every single one of us has this self-control system to respect what... In the end, not every one of us has to know what's good for him, but he has to follow the prescribed rules. That's what society does for a living. It has been mentioned many times that Serbia's mortality is high, but we have also made a contrasting argument. I'll say it again, this is yesterday's data, you won't mind, we don't have a big change, so Serbia 1.93%, Montenegro 2.18%, Croatia 2.71%, Albania 3.85%, BiH 3.89%, Bulgaria 4.15% and more and more, Northern Macedonia, Romania, Slovenia and Hungary 10.84%, the percentage of those killed compared to the number of infected. So Serbia 1.93%. If the number has changed significantly today, I apologize, here we are, waiting 15 hours to hear new data. The insistence on having the session organised at all costs. I agree that we are someone who has to confirm and verify everything that the Serbian government is doing, but you have not convinced me of your presentations so far, that you will bring better suggestions, that your suggestions can improve the lives of citizens and that they are better than those who are now in place. It's that moment that moved me from the dilemma of whether we were wrong just now to organize ourselves. I've also talked about personal dilemmas, possibly I'm wrong, but I hope that just those who came, like Radulovic, just before yelled at all of us here, with no protection, no mask, no gloves, no colleagues sitting underneath, at a metre below, exposed to all the drops that he shouts, in doing so, spits and all the rest of his behavior. All the time I've been an MP, as I speak as a politician, I speak both as a parent and as a man, as a woman. I'm thinking about where life is going on out there, what it is that we can do here in this room to make people's lives better. At this point, since there are no better proposals, it is up to us to support what the government measures are, to support the efforts so far and the president of the state, the Prime Minister and all members of the government, the people who are helping at the moment. I wanted my speech to be even sharper, to give much more criticism to the opposition colleagues who don't like what we're doing, but somehow I only stayed on this call for solidarity and support. I wanted my fellow opposition colleagues to do so in the future, all this energy they've spent on confusing the people, on distracting the people, on bringing lies, on the truth, on spending that energy to help pensioners, farmers, to organize to buy respirators, to deliver aid, to organize financial aid. You can't measure as a state of course, but certainly you can, but it seems like it wasn't your idea. The people look at us, record us, remember us. The choices whenever they are, they will be the result of the behavior of both our and yours during this extremely difficult period for the whole country. I'm really going to end up maybe pathetically, but at this point, the only thought I have is the gap in my head – surrender is not really an option, Serbia lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73636	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73637	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the government, the United Democratic Serbia considers that it is not at all disputed that the Constitution has been violated, do not argue over this, we believe that the Assembly could have met, that it should have met and that, in the same way we are discussing today, under the same conditions, in the same circumstances, we could have discussed this subject on 15 March. There were fewer infections on March 15th than there are today. You didn't want it, and that's how you broke the Constitution. You have decided to introduce certain measures restricting the rights of citizens by means of a regulation. You didn't respect that because by April 9th, you let the MUP determine its own measures when citizens will move and when they won't move. So, until April 9th, the MUP introduced an order to prohibit the movement of citizens, which has no right under the Constitution. It can possibly be done by the government if parliament cannot be drawn up. There's no dispute about that. We are today, putting us in a position to discuss what happened. What does it matter to you? It is important for you to respect, to confirm the measures, to confirm the regulations. All these measures were carried out by Serbian citizens and very well met and have an opinion on it. What we expected, which is why we came to the session today and yesterday, what Serbian citizens expect, is to talk in parliament about what is waiting for us. Understand that we're in a state of emergency, you realize that people are in fear, they're in fear for their health, they're afraid that they'll survive, they're in fear of how long Corona will last and whether another wave is coming or not. Two days nobody's talking about what's going to happen, there's no record of where we are today in writing, not a press conference report, but a report to the MPs where we are today and what are the predictions. We wanted to hear from the Crisis Staff, from the epidemiologist, from the profession, from the expert, from Kon, who could sit in this room today, he could transfer the government's predictions, she could expose it, and we could get it in writing. Guys, is the second wave going, or is there no second wave going, should we be afraid of it, or shouldn't we? How do we behave? The citizens want to hear it. The citizens showed that they were very disciplined, very responsible, they accepted more or less everything that was imposed. They can't accept four days to be in isolation for May 1st, and it's not normal to make the measures easier every day, it's easier, it's getting better, and then they have a re-enhancing in a few days. What's missing here is a plan to get us out of this crisis. That's one thing. Another thing, which interests citizens, is the economic situation, whether we will have salaries, whether we will have a job, whether someone will be fired, which is predicting the government what will happen in the economy and the economy in the next period. It's not there. We haven't heard a word about it. We can't discuss the budget, we can't discuss it because it's a regulation. It cannot be adopted as a regulation and sent for confirmation to the Assembly. It is not the budget to restrict citizens' rights under the Constitution, which can come to the Assembly for confirmation, the budget must be discussed and can be submitted to amendments. If we think the funds shouldn't be allocated to that thing, then we need to know something else. Why did you hide the budget? You put the budget within 44, other measures? Why can't we have a special point and discuss the budget? How much money will we be in charge of? At first there was a story that there was money. There's no money. The deficit is 380 billion dinars. That's what you wrote in the budget. So we have to be in debt for three billion euros, at least. We'll probably have to borrow more. Who are we in charge of, how much money, what interest? You refused the EU to be in debt at 1%. Now we see from what we could see in 24 hours that you're in debt for 1.82, or maybe 3%. So, you're more expensive in debt than you could. Do not reject this assistance from the EU, which is cheaper than the other. Why are you doing this? How are we going to fill a hole in the budget for local self-government? No one's talking about it. You have a transfer of 10 billion and a lack of local self-government of 25 billion. So 15 billion local self-government will get less money. They won't be able to pay off companies that work with local self-government. So, these companies are going to become inequitable. Why isn't it a consulting profession? Why don't I have some macroeconomic projections today? Why don't we have a fiscal report from the Fiscal Council? Why didn't you build a team of economists who would be sitting here today, who should convince the citizens that we'd be able to get out of this crisis unhurt. Understand that people are scared and realize that we don't know what's waiting for us. Not now in July and August, what is waiting for us in September, October, November, December? What are we going to pay from? What's the plan? These are the questions citizens are asking, and they will be disciplined and responsible if they are explained why certain measures must be introduced. We think that you do everything you can to avoid trusting citizens in what is done and citizens cannot support such a way of working. The citizens want to hear the profession, they want to hear it loud and clear, and they want to hear what the plan is to deal with it. We suggest that by the end of the year you do an analysis of who's the most endangered. Those who are more threatened to be given reliefs, as far as the economy is concerned, let those who are at risk not pay taxes and contribute next year, some in full, some 50%. Those who are not threatened should pay. As for 100 euros a month, please don't humiliate people, don't let someone have to turn the phone and answer and say - I want money. That's what you said you'd do. Let these others answer, and let them say: We will not have the money, and it is all right, they will not receive. If you have already promised, and it is clear to all, that it is a pre-election populist measure, which should cause an effect in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73638	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73639	Thank you, Vice President. I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are very responsible. So, over 95% of citizens are responsible, respects the state, respects all the measures, those about five percent may be the whole opposition, that in the next elections that we will probably have in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and provisions that are still in force in our country, because no coup is made, and if you plan to do so maybe, then tell us a little earlier, and let us inform those citizens of Serbia, those 95% responsible and those five percent who are responsible citizens but are completely confused, because Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, every day with their statements blabbering and pushing them into ignorance, to think about what will be in the future in this country. It will be all right, the SNS will win, because Serbian citizens trust Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Here, to remove at least one dilemma that you may have personally, and you are hiding behind God knows how many citizens who have contacted you and said – save Nenad Konstantinovic from this uncertainty. Well, that looks like it, your discussion, as if I don't know, hundreds of thousands of people are behind you as some political factor. Well, you two haven't set foot in this parliament in two years, and now you're asking why parliament, and the election was called on March 4th, as well, to inform you, did not urgently call a session amid the increase in the number of people affected by the crown in Serbia. Unbelievable. As you led the state, you'd probably push 600 people here into parliament, do a big in vivo experiment, see if any of us get sick, and then you might have solved the problem before the elections were held. As for respecting the Constitution, you say, you have no dilemma. You don't have a dilemma about anything, it's an intolerable ease of politics. I think that's the way it is, and now we all need to pass out and agree with you. I will tell you that the state of emergency in our country this year, since we had previously been in place in 2020 under the letter of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all the positive regulations. When I say positive regulations, you may understand me, citizens may not. March 15th, I wrote a letter to both the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister and cited the reasons why I cannot call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the introduction of an emergency at that time. You'll understand the same thing, you didn't ask the Assembly anything when you introduced the state of emergency in 2003, nothing. I was sitting at home watching Natasha Micic. I remember she had some heavy costume, a purse, because she didn't trust people behind her, around her shoulder, and she's like the president of the Parliament and V.D. The president, she was everything at that moment, because as Milutinovic, the mandate expired, and then you decided that it was V.D. Immediately the president, and he is the president of the Assembly, because in the meantime, you have succeeded with the help of some games and associates of various services to eliminate. And so it seemed to introduce an emergency then. Yes, the prime minister was killed, but you know what, often, not you personally, but opposition representatives compare Serbia with Sweden. Well, as compared to Sweden only in some segments, compare it to Sweden and when introducing a state of emergency. They had President Palma killed, so they didn't bring in a state of emergency. They killed the foreign minister, who was the day Zoran Djindjic was killed to meet with him, did not introduce the state of emergency, so they have not introduced him now. Whether it's good or not, we'll leave it to show up when they end up with an epidemic, that is, this problem with Kovid, but we see that they have a large number of dead and infected, but they are such, a liberal society that doesn't introduce a state of emergency, even when the president of the state was killed, or when the foreign minister was killed. Then we can't compare ourselves to countries that have never done anything we've done and what we've been through. Article 200. The constitution, attitude 5, is very clear. We can continue to refer to attitude 8, when the regulations adopted in the meantime are confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a whole sentence is read. It does not come in the case, as one Member read, within 48 hours, but is read still - i.e. as soon as it is able to meet. I still have a dilemma about whether it's a good thing that we're meeting at this point at this meeting, but experts have said we have fewer, less dead, that the epidemic is slowly escalating, and we've taken advantage of the possibility of meeting. I wrote, "In view of the current situation concerning the spread of infectious disease in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that conditions have been met for a decision to declare an emergency." What Zoran Zivkovic would say - I stand behind every decision I make and every sentence. And that's what I'm going to do through history. This saved many lives. "How the holding of a session involves the presence of a large number of people, a minimum of 500, and that number involves not only MPs, you only limit yourself to that when you speak, professional service, administration, technical service, security service, fire department, health service, public information representatives, I believe that at this point this would pose a risk to people's health" - point. I stand behind everything I've written and what I've done. "In view of the current epidemiological situation, the Assembly is unable to meet and I suggest that the emergency decision, in accordance with Article 200(5). The Constitution of Serbia, brought together by the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and the Prime Minister." And we made that decision. And beyond that, I have nothing to say, nor I, nor this messenger, nor that messenger. You speak, of course, but the final assessment will be given by the Constitutional Court. Did he give his 2003 grade, I don't know. I really don't know. I know that Natasa Micic, who was everything at the time, is sorry that she is not present today, to shed light on the circumstances of this introduction of the state of emergency, but I don't know how we compare ourselves with what, and not compare Serbia with Serbia from 2003 and 2020. The media? Only statements from the government of the Republic of Serbia could be read to the media. That's all it could do. That you have a TV that says everything different, a journalist who says that nurses at the Vojvodina Clinical Center don't have masks and gloves, that you have the headlines of the newspaper that this one or what he did, that there are so many dead, that migrants jump on the heads of every Serbian citizen, throw us out of our apartments, a sea of fake news you have. If that's democracy, fine. But in 2003, human rights and democracy views were completely different. It wasn't just two or three singers in custody and two or three criminals. I don't agree with that. There were 12,000 people in custody, almost roughly damages were paid, they didn't get a misappropriation after, and they weren't tried. Nothing was going on. I'm not saying that for some evil reason. My family raised me to respect the state. I was in opposition in 2003, and it didn't occur to me to do anything against the state, against the police, against the government that made that decision, against Natasha Micic. It didn't occur to me. In such circumstances, if it were now such a situation, if the opposition respected their country, we could agree as Bundestag to occasionally ambush us and make us 50. But, of course, not to the harm of the election results, that you don't hope to. Then, as an example of the non-session, we would refer to a member of the European Union. Czech, for example. What's wrong with Czech Republic? Is someone saying it's not a democratic state? They haven't met once. It doesn't even occur to them that they're endangering lives, not just themselves, but anyone in parliament. Even when they come out, the consequences of such gatherings are when it comes out of parliament. And does anyone have anything to say against the U.S. and what both homes don't? They don't even think about it. I think the United States is a democratic state. But there, they don't ambush, even though the Corona bouquets on that continent. Not to say Belgium almost started something, but the Senate isn't ambushed at all. Everyone else, here's a report from the Interparliamentary Union, if they don't hate you, you'll look at it, on their site, and you'll see that all the states seem to be sitting on-line, or now they're studying how to deal with the quorum, to admit that there are 10 in the quorum room, and things like that. Rarely as in full capacity ambush. Neither does the Federal Republic of Germany. A colleague, Radulovic, made this up. They agreed that several ambushes met the form of respect for democracy and human rights. That's what they can do, because they've knocked Angela Merkel down and criticized until Corona showed up. It's the respect of the state that's missing from us. And then they told her - we're here. We're here now, we'll talk about everything when this danger is over. Such democracies are for a great deal of respect, but also the politicians of the government and the politicians of the opposition are involved. We said we wouldn't criticise it, but as an ordinary MP, I guess I can say something if someone's been criticizing me for days. Who's raising a riot now in the state? Dragan Gilas doesn't have any MPs. He didn't make the election. There was an MP, he resigned, he was driven away by the Democratic Party, replaced by Bojan, elected by someone else after Bojan Pajtic, and he can raise a rebellion because he doesn't care, he doesn't have any MPs. He can speak against parliament from the stairs. Bosko Obradovic lost the parliamentary club because of his policy. And he's better off on the stairs than fighting Radulovic in five minutes, whether he can speak or not. Because there are rules, only three who don't have an MP club can speak. So he's better off saying that he, I don't know, says Dwri exists. It doesn't exist at all. Let's politically speak plainly, without these gloves, even though I'm going to hold them, Davery doesn't exist. This is all a joke. It's like now some political force that has something to say there's no democracy in the state. Well, they brought down all the postulates of even parliamentary life, how many times did you run from benches to benches. When they broke up all the MPs' clubs, they decided to go outside and then recommend not to go to the polls. That's ridiculous. And Vuk Jeremic, who also doesn't have a parliamentary club, he wasn't even on the list for two or three weeks, he just didn't run. These are leaders outside the parliamentary opposition, let's say openly. They have nothing to do with this House. Not at all! With what right do they now say whether parliament should have a session, no session? Let them run, let them go to the elections, and at the next call let them talk about the work of parliament as much as they want, but don't make fog for the citizens of Serbia. They're calling on citizens to bang pots. Is that in the Federal Republic of Germany? Is that what there is in the United States, that someone's banging on the pots? Is it in Belgium, where we get messages from, I don't mean from the state of Belgium, but from some institutions? Are they banging on the pots over there? They're not banging. Is that in Austria? Is that in Croatia? Is that in Slovenia? In which state are the opposition during the infection, pandemics, severe diseases, that while we're banging some of them there are banging on pots? People fight for life on respirators, other families have other problems, they can't bury their loved ones the way they might not be pandemics. They're pounding so you don't hear applause to doctors and health care professionals, that's the purpose of that slamming and banging. What are they banging at? With what right is Dragan Gilas the one who invites Serbian citizens to knock? To protest what? Against a doctor who doesn't raise his head? Imagine what it looks like to them when Serbian citizens tap them, and these come out and bang on the pots? I'll let them know right away, the sherpas that are broken are carcinogenic, so I suggest they throw and ask Dragan Gilas to buy them a new set of sherps. So much for that fantastic political move. That might have made sense in that time 30 years ago. What's the point now? None. I call on the citizens of Serbia, I urge all MPs in this call to go out on the terrace every evening at 2.00 p.m. and a thundering tap to doctors and health workers. It is a response to the pounding and beating of an out-of-parliament opposition that will enter parliament almost never again. Well, that's my answer to them all. They all know what's been in parliament for two years, and they haven't set foot. They write a letter in Brussels? What they write letters about, that's what I'm really interested in and who they find for the conversators. MPs who are opposition in their countries and we faint when they say something. We faint when the opposition MP says he sees what is happening in Serbia in his country? We've really become a society that doesn't appreciate us as MPs. Well, Zoran Zivkovic is not quoted as much as some from other countries, I feel sorry, really, or Nenad Konstantinovic, who wrote the Rules of Procedure, so justice for Zoran or the Rules of Procedure, in which there are no provisions that we can sit online. How did you miss that? Well, yeah. How did you miss it, Mr. Konstantinovic, so you don't put in provisions that we can be less during emergency and that we can sit online and the quorum counts even if someone doesn't come? Now, I ask you to exert yourself next time a new Rules of Procedure is made and to enter all these possibilities into this draft Rules of Procedure. I now have to do just as you wrote and because I respect the state and respect the rules, I also respect the Rules of Procedure of Nenad Konstantinovic. I say, "Session assembly," "sessions," "and we're the ones who own to end the state of emergency." So you know we're going to have a session when the conditions come, when the profession says it can be lifted now, we're going to be sitting down and we're going to talk about it, and by then we're going to be sharing messages with Nancy Pelosi, we're going to criticize her why she's not ambushed, with the President of the Czech Parliament. We'll also see with these and Bundestags how they chose 10, 20 MPs from so many Bundestags and we'll also talk to Boris Johnson who first went liberal, they were all on the streets, and then he got sick and saw that experiment live in his country and didn't show good results. But, I say, when we compare ourselves to someone, let's compare not only to the introduction of strict measures, but to compare ourselves with anything that is desirable. As for help, there was criticism of yours why the Republic of Serbia did not thank everyone. As far as I was following the statements of our country's leader, and the president of the state, and of the Ministers and Prime Minister, we thanked anyone who helped Serbia in these difficult times. Of course, the People’s Republic of China helped first, so we thanked them first. They helped, indeed, in every sense of the word, and the People's Republic of China is our strategic partner, a steel friendship and of course we thanked them with our full heart more than others. The Russian Federation has helped, indeed, in a certain way. The United States has also helped and, behold, if no one has taken advantage of this opportunity to thank the President of the United States, Mr. Donald Trump, here I thank you for sending a considerable number of masks and a certain amount of money to Serbia. The EU has also helped. Thanks for that. Our strategic commitment is to one day become a full member of the EU. We will not give up on our foreign policy goal, and they themselves have exchanged messages to each other that there is no solidarity with each other. They forgot about Italy, and we're not the creators of those statements, but they accused each other that in these difficult times, they're simply not solid to each other. We are grateful to the EU and to everyone who thinks of Serbia in these difficult times. Once again, I call on you to love Serbia as much as everyone in these moments, to do what everyone in the world is doing, which is to solidarity, to leave the criticisms when everything goes away and then to watch that, in both economic and political terms, and political impotence, we will leave political inadequacy to those who have been outside Parliament, the rest, and it is obvious that they will stay out of parliament a little longer because the citizens of Serbia are never wrong. Serbian citizens vote the way they feel they should vote. This time, they will vote again for the SNS and for the parties that make up the current ruling majority. Someone will also vote for the opposition who thinks this is the right place to talk about every topic, and for those who call for a boycott, only one message -- they're boycotting themselves. Once again, I invite you to touch the doctors at 2.00 p.m., to touch the doctors, to touch the nurses and all those who in these difficult times are trying to get over this period. As for May 1st, so if we're going to compare ourselves to the world, and we're one of the few countries in the world that this is an unworkable day, and we're uniquely unique that these are some relics of the past, but if I choose health and the life of myself and the people I care about, then I choose to be at home, to read books, to prepare an apartment, to watch television, some movies, and I don't even want to have a barbecue that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73640	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The right to replica has Mr Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73641	Thank you. A respected colleague of mine did not understand or understand the Constitution, and there is no discussion that the state of emergency is being introduced by the National Assembly, and if the Assembly cannot meet, then someone else can. Is that the Assembly can't meet, as the colleague said, that's what she's estimating herself. We believe that the Assembly could have met, that at the moment when all the malls worked, the Assembly could have met in Serbia, that at the time of meetings at the Federation Palace, where there were more than 250 people in the building or 500, the Assembly could have met, and the Assembly had to discuss it. But why did she have to discuss it? It is not disputed that an emergency would be imposed and no one here objected to the introduction of an emergency, but was to be debated in front of the citizens, that they could see it, that they would get an explanation of the experts and that they would accept it. I am sure that we discussed this in the congregation at that time or not after 48 hours, as the Constitution says, that these measures would, on the one hand, be more humane, and on the other hand more acceptable. What you said about donations, what a united democratic Serbia asked for, is to publish a list of all donations and to know how much China donated to us, how much EU, how much Russia, how much America, and these donations should be announced, as well as all EU donations to health care should be announced. We mentioned that the health system survived, and that's good. He survived thanks to doctors, but survived thanks to EU donations. Over 100m euros were donated by the EU to our health system. It is indisputable that our future is in the EU and that we must turn to the EU both in these difficult times and difficult times and in our economy. I'm sure the finance minister knows better than anyone else. We trade exclusively, minors, with the EU and with our region. So we are facing the EU and we cannot exist without the EU as an isolated island in the middle of Europe. Secondly, we want our children to have opportunities and a future like children in the EU. Our citizens tell us that they are leaving this country to go to the EU, 85% of those who go to the EU and do not go to China and the Arab world.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73642	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. The word is Maja Gojkovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73643	Let me tell you, I don't know where you were at the time of the emergency, the malls didn't work, the schools didn't work. I don't know where you live. Maybe some private schools, I don't know, but we live in two different states. You have made another mistake, and that is the problem that you are moving in a circle of certain people who are obviously leaving and sending children to school only in EU countries. I have nothing against EU countries. And I lived in the Federal Republic of Germany for a while, and I had schooled there, because I didn't know any other languages. I knew German, so that's why I went to school there, I couldn't go to school in China or Russia when I don't know anything, I don't know the word of their language. But many of our citizens are now going to the People's Republic of China to work, I must inform you. The Arab world, you say, is not going to the Arab world. God, Nenad Konstantinovic, where do you live? I know at least 20 people from your environment or you know who are going to Emirate, going to Qatar to work, etc. A lot of them are going to the Russian Federation to work. It's not that time 30 years ago when you've been uplifting the story -- our only alternative is the EU. Our commitment is as countries to be a full member of the EU, but that does not mean that we will stop working with the People's Republic of China, so the whole world is working together, so everyone in the EU is working with China, everyone is working with the Russian Federation in economic terms, and they are watching as to how to avoid and to eskiculate economic sanctions, so they're winding up, they're all working with them, not to lie. Of course, we cannot refuse to cooperate with the United States because we want to go to the EU. Whether we will be admitted depends on the decision of the EU, that is, the Member States and their future as organisations. But I am convinced, when the citizens of Serbia trust you, personally, to lead the country, that you will solve this problem of Serbia's membership very quickly. I'm convinced. We have done a lot to cut you short, so that you will end, as you have in 2000, working with all other countries of the world, closing all embassies, except in the EU, and if the citizens of Serbia trust you, it will be very easy for you. I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73644	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The right to replica has Nenad Konstantinovic. Mr. Konstantinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73645	I wish only people in my environment were leaving this country, all leaving this country, 60,000 people leave Serbia annually, 60,000 people according to OECD data, 60,000 people are constantly living in OECD countries. China is not one of the OECD countries. If you say they're going mass to China, it means that a lot more than 60,000 people left in 2019 and 2018 and 2017. I think citizens know where people are going and I think they know where doctors and nurses are going, and I think that's the subject that we were supposed to be dealing with today, but you didn't let us, because that's how you set the agenda. It's important that we keep these doctors, these heroes to stay in the country. It's important that we talk about raising their salaries so they don't have to go abroad. It is important to say that 250m euros from the EU have been helped by our health care. It is also important that you admit that we are more capable than you and that we bring this country into the EU much faster than you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73646	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73647	When you came to power, it went on an average of 38,000 to 45,000 people a year, and it lasted a long time. (Nenad Konstantinovic: 60,000) You made that up. So nothing's changed here. But what is good in these unfortunate times, that 400,000 people have returned to the country, 400,000 people have returned to Serbia, have returned from the EU. A very small number has returned from some distant geographical areas. They're back from the EU. They're working on some contracts, they don't have health insurance. They're back here. And now the state will work to stay. Unlike you, you've been working on getting them as far away as possible. We will prepare a report for some next discussion on how many people have left Serbia, Yugoslavia, Serbia's state union, since 2000, to change power. And to tell me then why did they leave such a fairy tale Serbia that you led, what were they leaving when they didn't have to? They didn't have to. Now, we're this close to getting into the EU, this big, so you can realize their dream of staying here. So we're going to take out the exact data from 2000 to 2013 and then we're going to talk from 2013 to today. Fortunately, 400,000 people have returned under these unfortunate circumstances. We all have to work together to stay, because it's obviously better here. It's a better health system, they're secure here, unlike in those countries where obviously something didn't work out, so they had to go back to Serbia, which you say they're running from. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73648	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73649	I don't understand the need to bring up lies, especially at a time when it's easy to verify. Now anyone can, doesn't have to be very smart and educated, but he goes to Google, so check it out. About the appointment of the Assembly and the declaration of state of emergency. To hear it, President of the Assembly, since you obviously don't know it, and that was your job, the state of emergency was declared by the triumvirate chief and two other escorts on March 15th. Coffee shops, banning the operation of cafes – March 21st at 20.00 p.m. Thus, at a time when cafes could work, five days after the state of emergency was declared, she could not occupy the Assembly. Of course, that Assembly would make a decision as Vucic suggested, there is no doubt about it. Those who react here to the effects of Paul, or bells, would vote in a second and everything would be okay. It was fear. Was he afraid of what would happen in parliament or, which I think is different, a reshow of haughtiness and primitiveism, even if it was legal, constitutional primitiveism? I quote: “Now I’m going to show them that I can do it counter-constitutionally. ” So let's be serious. As far as quoting is concerned, who is quoted depends on what you read and what you watch, if you watch "The Cooperative" there no one will quote me, and if you watch some scientific papers about "Sabrelja" you will have in one 100 places where my statements from that time are quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73650	The People's MP Maja Gojkovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73651	Let me tell you, there is no comparison between the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the cafes. I can't do that. I can't do that, but let's go in numbers. Over 500 people are now in the system so we can discuss agenda points here, and there are only 30 people in the cafe. Those who do phenomenal work thirty at the same time, but we can't really compare one serious work here and the free time that we all like to spend in a cafe. I don't know what to tell you, you say the president of the state and two escorts, and that's probably the Prime Minister and President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and two escorts, I guess. If you have anyone else in mind, you feel free to say so and deny me. Fortunately, in 2003, when you were introducing a state of emergency, Natasa Micic was herself a doubler and companion. So it didn't exist then. She was everything. She was the first companion of the National Assembly, V.D. The president of the country is also Natasa Micic, about the pace, about the seas. After that, she would have given herself the Nobel Prize if there were no choice and then read that Natasa Micic was awarding the Nobel Prize to Natasa Micic, and she would shake hands like this. That's what democracy looks like when you conduct it, and here was the president of the state and, as you say, it's probably because we women are in these certain state positions of two escorts. You never said that about any man who performs important state functions, but when women are there, then you have to knock us down to the level of some escorts who have nothing in their brain, they don't know how to write a memo, they don't know how to evaluate the situation, they're reading the Constitution, they're some ikebans, they're escorts and they're standing next to the president of the state. It's an honor to be icaban next to President Alexander Vukic and you can't really insult me, but you've offended women. You've offended women who do business... Here, I've been doing 30 years of this responsible work, indeed, for 30 years, Zorana Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73652	The People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73653	First, I said boss and two escorts, if you recognized yourself in that, then that's your problem, and you yourself said it was an honor, so I don't see what the problem is. Once again for 2003, since, I see, there is a crowd of genius lawyers, according to the 1990 Constitution, which was in force in 2003, the state of emergency, listen to me well, to remember once, was introduced by the president of the state, and since he did not exist then because he was not elected to the elections, because there was no majority, that function was done by the President of Parliament, and it was absolutely on the government's proposal, under Article 83 of the Constitution, introduced by the state of emergency and it had nothing to do with this now. So now the state of emergency is instituting parliament, and then the state of emergency was introduced by the president, in both cases on the government's proposal. It's here on a proposal from the Secretary of Defense, as I recall, a triumphate, self-elected, in that sense, although there is a member of the 200th current Constitution that can be interpreted one way or another, that I don't get into it, but the point is whether... In 2003, there was no need for parliament to meet to introduce a state of emergency, and at a time of emergency parliament was sitting and passing laws, and now it was necessary for parliament to meet, or conditions to be called. You put parliament below the bar level by making cafes work and parliament not. If it was a matter of security, it could have occupied parliament in the Sava Center, in the Arena, to sit 10 meters from each other, the microphone today has as much as you want, to sit 50 meters from the government which is good and for health, spiritually and physiologically, and all of this could have been done in one day that there was no haughtiness – now I'm going to show you what I can do. That's what we're different about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73654	The People's MP Maja Gojkovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73655	I'm not exactly known in public as a boastful person. Maybe I should start after 30 years. It's never too late to become arrogant. I don't know, here's the thing. Let me tell you something, the assembly isn't just us, so let's sit in the arena. The congregation is this building, fortunately there is, no one burned it. We have come to the Sava Center, as I recall, to attend the swearing of President Vojislav Kostunica because this parliament was burned, stolen and burned. I know, because I was coming to try and find a work book. It was all in the water to its knees because the firemen here put out the fire. So we have a parliament now and no one burned it, and I don't know where all these people would work that let us have this session. They can't even be in the arena in chairs. It's your idea of how the congregation works or doesn't work. After all, the Constitutional Court will tell. Maybe you know the Constitution better than I do. I'm really restrained about that. The Constitutional Court and there is to assess the constitutionality of a political act. Don't call yourself in 2003. The Constitution speaks only in part of the territory. Only if you ripped Serbia apart at that time into multiple pieces of territory, but how ingenious it was to understand your democracy. Not only was Natasa Micic president of the National Assembly, so she was V.D. The president of the state, you've always had some reasons, then she, Natasha Micic, is now I don't know, like V.D. The president, where it even says so in the laws, the Constitution, suggested that you, as a federal envoy, be elected prime minister of the Republic of Serbia at the time. Fantastic interpretation of the Constitution and the law. Natasa Micic, I apologize to Natasa Micic for mentioning her so much, was the person who at the time, democratically, with respect for all the principles of democracy, constitutionality and legality, all of this is done because of the burden that you have burdened on the back. It's not her fault. I would have amnested her, because she didn't know what she was getting into. The shivering, there's footage of her reading like this, her hands shaking, her purse here, her hands shaking like this when she was reading what someone wrote to her. No one has to write to me, no one has to shake my hands. I wrote this under full responsibility that parliament cannot be ambushed. The Constitutional Court will say whether or not he could interpret the legal provisions and whether this is in accordance with the Constitution, and not what you and I and, I don't know, those on the stairs, the parliamentary opposition thinks of that act. I'm saying, in 2003, she simply opened up legal aspects that anything is possible, that the president of the state, the Prime Minister, could be anything, you just say V.D. and proposed Zoran Zivkovic as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73656	The People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73657	It's sad when someone who is undoubtedly a lawyer, I don't get into a dilemma about it, like Mrs. Gojkovic is making herself up, so now you figure out what word goes logically after what I said, and says things that have nothing to do with life. Of course the President of the Assembly is at a time when there is no President of the State, V.D. The president. She made a decision on the government's proposal, absolutely according to the Constitution. A state of emergency has been introduced on the 12th night. According to Article 83, which says – if the state of emergency is introduced in the territory in the country, the president shall bring it. I won't explain it to you, since you're pretending to be ignorant, very successful. The government was elected, I think, just one six, seven days later, if I'm not mistaken, March 18th. That's who he was then. I was then the deputy party president whose president was Dr. Zoran Djindjic and I was his closest associate. It wasn't a proposal by Natasha Micic or I don't know who, but a logical proposal from the assembly majority who should unfortunately succeed the murdered president. It has nothing to do with the twisting of the law that's happening today. That's what I'll talk about when I get my word on the agenda. So let's not play this jurisprudence and not say things that are unworthy to a student of law, a freshman at law school, let alone someone who has undoubtedly been a lawyer for thirty and a few years, but let's do what's on the agenda today. I'm saying this in your favor, not because I'm running away from the subject. I can talk about "Sabreya" any time you want, any time you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73658	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73659	It's not even a problem for me to look stupid in society. I always admit when I'm wrong. I just don't get it - why didn't the president of the state do his duty at the time, Mr. Milutinovic? I know, you'll tell me - as his term of office expired. Wait, when someone's term is up, I really don't know and it's in an emergency... So, what happened to Milutinovic? You haven't answered anyone yet in the O.R. when your choice was made, so with respect for human rights, democracy, the possibility that the National Assembly of the Ambulatory, etc., why didn't you hold a session that would have a direct television broadcast like this now? You have no answer to that question. Why in parliament, while you were elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, why were people armed, men in vests, men in masks? Why did the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia take place in democratic Serbia in 2003? Where was democracy? Where is that respect for human rights? Where is the respect of Serbian citizens to watch, to enjoy choosing a new government, to hear what the opposition will say about your appointment? Let me tell you, under the Constitution, I suppose that Constitution, the president of the state proposes the prime minister and supports him by voting or not, depends. The president of the state is the one who trusts the mandate, not the parties. That's what happened. That's how it is now. Now maybe I'm stupid. You're saying I don't know anything about these 30 years, but it doesn't stop me from interpreting the Constitution like you interpreting regulations and not having to be a lawyer, it can be any other profession, it has the same rights. I say Milutinovic was president. You're saying his term of office is up. We can talk about it, but it was all very tense, but now the citizens of Serbia can watch this transmission and hear the diversity of opinions, whether the state of emergency has been introduced in accordance with the Constitution or not. In 2003, I am responsible for what to publish and what to do. That's where the announcements went, and it just had to be made public. Everything else was punishable, so everyone else wasn't even trying to say anything else. (President: Bringing the end. I'm just making statements. The police were armed with masks. In such an atmosphere, MPs discussed here. They didn't know what was waiting for them outside when they came out, so they tightened up and commented on your choice. I don't know what you have to say now. It's a democracy you're conducting. This is the democracy we're conducting. You have to admit that there are big differences because Serbian citizens are following this. There's no police around this building. No one's harassing the MPs. Human and civil rights in this country have not been compromised. They're limited for certain reasons. Let me explain why you did not act as Sweden in similar circumstances when Sweden is a borderline call for comparison with Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73660	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73661	That's why you didn't act like Sweden. I didn't really hear a stupider question, but what do we do? Because it's another state, another constitution, other circumstances. I don't know what kind of connections. When you heard me mention Sweden in any way. I don't remember if it was the Parliament's transfer when I was elected prime minister. If it wasn't, I admit I don't remember, it was probably part of the measure. I don't remember when it was mandatory to carry them around. I don't remember that, but the choice was such that the MPs of the opposition, were exposés, were discussing it. Everything's been published. So there's no doubt about it. The president of the state was not because Milutinovic had expired earlier. If I remember correctly, in October or November there were elections, according to the Constitution and the law at that time, more than 50% of the citizens were to come out so that they could succeed so that they could gain 50% of the citizens' trust, the one to be elected president. If I'm not mistaken, Labus entered the second round and if Kostunica, whether Nikolic and no one got it, so for constitutional and legal reasons then, according to the 1990 Constitution, which brought socialists, radicals and I don't know who it was, it couldn't have been. So it has nothing to do with that. Therefore, it is true that V.D. The president or president of the state proposes a candidate, prime minister for the government's composition, but of course he only does it formally and that the fundamental proposal is made by those who will vote, who provide the majority in parliament, which was then the coalition. So, I really don't understand the need for so much falseness at the time... First, it's been 17.18 years since then. There's been a lot of time to question all this and I don't see that anyone filed a criminal report against me, not just for that, but for the other barking I hear almost every day. You've had opportunities and the regime at the time, and even a new regime, and even in these seven, eight years to reevaluate it, of course you haven't done anything because it's all clean and because of course I have nothing to be ashamed of from that time, or from any time I'm business or social or politically involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73662	Mr. Zivkovic, to inform you, there was no transmission. I was an MP back then. There was no transmission after the state of emergency was lifted. Zoran Zivkovic throws. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. No breaks. [[Zoran Zivkovic: Is there a break?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73663	I offer my condolences to the members of the families who died the closest and those who died because of the disease, because of the Coronavirus, and everyone else, if for no other reason, what because of these extraordinary conditions could not have been properly buried in the usual manner because of the restrictions prescribed and the act of burial itself. I would ask the Minister of Health to announce how many citizens were tested on March 15th on the day of the decision to declare their state of emergency, how many of those tested have been infected. I would also ask him to say how many people died in this period, regardless of the cause of death, of which Coronus and of how many over 65 years of age. I would also like to ask the third question for the Minister of Health – since less than 1% of citizens have been tested, how many respirators have been obtained for Serbia's health period in 2013- 2019? Finally, Minister, I believe that you will not be able to do so at this session, but it would be good to prepare and, at least, provide written information to all MPs – what is the strategy of getting out of the pandemic of the Corona virus for more than 99% of non-tested citizens who will eventually be hit in the return cycle of the epidemic? I would also like to ask the Minister of the Military, if he can declare - why is there no proposal to introduce an emergency in the materials we received, as an explanation, since there are no letters of reasoning in the Decision, as you yourself know? I would ask the Prime Minister to tell the public if she has sent a request to the National Assembly to declare the state of emergency, when and where that request can be found. Another question for the Prime Minister – did she send a request to the National Assembly for an invitation within 48 hours of the declaration of emergency? Also, I think it is inappropriate that within this 44 plus one package that is not present, because it has ceased to apply, and you should have led it, with a note that it is not valid for information, to introduce both the regulation and the budget rebalancing of 50% of the total budget planned for 2020. It's a really nonsensory that I don't think should be accepted. Also, I would like to ask myself why, on the proposal of eight MPs who asked for the National Assembly to be convened, no MP, nor the assembly majority, accepted the proposal. Does this mean that MPs of the congregation’s majority also began boycotting work and boycotting the work of the Assembly during the emergency period, thus practically joining the opposition? That's why I propose to the citizens - Corona warns us, change the system, this patriotic system, and I'll list the data. Furthermore, why are MPs older than 65 years of age discriminated and unable to perform their duties, even if they come to a press conference, if they do not have permission from the restoring competent ministry to move during the emergency? I asked the police department, I didn't get permission. Furthermore, why couldn't the older than 65 have been able to walk at least in the time of curfew or an hour since the start of curfew, when the dogs could move? Why couldn't an animal of devastated villages at 70 and over have been able to do agricultural work, when we know that about 120,000 owners of family holdings are over 70 years old, according to the 2018 survey on agricultural holdings, and according to the 2012 census, 42% of the owners were over 65 years old? Furthermore, why are the owners of livestock on agricultural land, excluding dairy cattle, dairy cows, discriminated against the owners of puppies in cities because they could not during the curfew feed goats, sheep, feed cattle, etc., other than what is related to the production of milk? Furthermore, why were the markets closed and reopened even though the state of emergency was not lifted, although at the time hypermarkets in the closed area worked with imported agricultural products? The village has fed us through centuries to defend and preserve the marks of the Serbian identity and identity of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73664	You're bringing the end, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73665	Please, just one more sentence. I don't mind social aid with 100 euros, and if it can be more, but I don't think it's appropriate to give it to voters. If your slogan was – for our children, let us give children, give social cases, give pensioners who do not have minimum personal income and all others who do not have minimum personal income, including employees with a secondary school in the National Assembly who are paid for every month 600 dinars to a minimum salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73666	The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73667	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I must, first of all, react for one thing that has been said, that the faces older than 70 in the villages could not move. Since the first day, all farmers over 70 years of age in settlements that are below 5,000 people have been able to carry out their agricultural activities without a problem, and please, it was written in the first decision made by the government on the first day. This is, if on one business activity it was trying to do everything, and you know that then there was a set and all the other necessary agrotechic measures, it was about agriculture, and there was a maximum tolerance for everything. For one simple reason, because today he showed what Mr. Risticevic was saying, that agriculture, or food, is one thing that in a safe sense did not present to Serbia at any time a problem. The fact is, we don't have the oil to the extent we'd like, if we didn't have the gold we wanted, we don't have the sea. We do not have one of the resources that we would have to use, which has proved this time that many shelves in many countries and in our environment have been empty and that we as a state have helped and helped anyone who needed this help. On the other hand, as far as green markets are concerned, they were not immediately closed. Especially those in the open, but, as the virus was taking the wave and as this percentage of the test was increasing to those infected, so other measures had to be taken. The drinkers, as that percentage began to fall and as it entered into its lighter form, gained conditions for their opening and with the application of all the health measures that the epidemiologists had stated. I'll just have one thing, let me take a colleague of the Lonarch for Freedom, but I heard it first from an epidemiologist at the Crescent Headquarters and Nis, when we had the Crisis Headquarters. The first days that we keep talking about, whether it could have been the Assembly or couldn't have been the Assembly, that first attack of the virus said it was a second or third generation virus that was incomparably stronger than what we have today. I don't want to comment on things about medicine, but then the situation with the infected was much more delicate and much more aggressive than it was later, or in the last few days, because today mostly, except for a few cases we have easier cases and we have asymptomatic cases. Don't forget how those first days were. Here, there's a colleague named Vulin who can confirm that the soldiers are in the first stroke that was in both Sudotica and Batrovci, what are the symptoms and what is the condition of these soldiers. Don't ever forget that thing. That he tested perhaps at that first moment 300 or 400 and what a percentage he was, which one of my colleagues will surely say, never forget what it was like on those first days. It's easy to be a general after every battle. Anyone can do that, but they have to get inside the whole problem and then draw conclusions eventually. As for agriculture and what you said about the dairy sector, that is, that they could have been on the basis of a pass to leave, and at all in livestock, everyone who worked pasture could have applied and could have gotten that pass at any time, and because you don't know about it, that doesn't mean it didn't happen, but you also know about one situation that you tried to show that a man drove sheep to the pasture around Paracina, and you know where his sheep were at that time at 18 hours in police time? Six hundred yards away from there, he had nothing to do with those sheep, but he was doing another activity, so the police had him legitimized at that point and what happened happened happened. You know that, the police announced it first thing tomorrow, and the police did their job right. Please, what you think is that within 30 kilometers of there you know what's going on, get in the shoes of those who have been with people who needed help every day. It's easy to talk after 60 days. Anyone can do that. I understand your need at this point, like every time, that in different colorings, no, it's perfect for me, there's just one other thing, a hat is taken off when it's in a closed space. That's how I learned about what I was learning, and now I don't know what school you were studying at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73668	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73669	Do you agree that I should answer this... ? Miladin Ševarlic, throws it out of place. If it's no problem for me to answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73670	Comrade Chevarlich, you asked for answers and asked questions. So please be patient to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73671	I'll go first, your question was how much was tested on March 15th and how positive it was. There were 283 people tested, 48 positive, so slightly less than 17% positive. The trend was to increase the number of positives. Your second question, I'm going to answer this question that you specifically asked me to give you, so I'm going to answer your point. Absolutely incorrect by the number of tests, 78,942 people have been tested in Serbia so far. According to the number of residents, Serbia is better by the official table, sir, according to official data. You said it was the worst in the world or in Europe. We'll see in the stenogram, no problem. If you could just listen to me. So, better than Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, Hungary, Northern Macedonia, Romania, BiH, Croatia. Sir, official data. I would move on to the essence, not only for your sake, but also for Members of the Parliament of Constantinović and for the Parliament of Macura and for everyone. We're here for the Coronal virus, due to the current problem in the world of number one that isn't solved. But since I see that there is no understanding here and that we have come, which I am under strong impression, but of course I will not comment on anything, I am sorry that Ambassador Konstantinovic left, who said that he would have introduced Serbia faster into the EU, but that is my impression, perhaps it is not relevant, so I will return to the crown. Dear sir, as far as emergency decisions are concerned, the Corona virus has been a major health problem, if we agree, which they say, caused such a reaction that has not been in the last hundred years or more. It can't be compared. If something is a health problem, if it endangers people's health, if it endangers people's lives, I say it in the first place, but it doesn't only endanger that, it endangers a lot of other things and the economy, and the economy, and everything that it expands into when a person gets sick, when you have one serious threat. I would ask you now to listen to me, to settle this question for all time, which I am responsible for and I am responsible for. When all this happened, when we had data from Serbia, when we had data from Europe, when we had data from the world, when you heard our doctors, our experts, I personally requested, here is the Prime Minister and President of the Health Services, personally I asked to introduce an emergency to prevent all the consequences that could have happened. I'm behind it. Don't call anyone else. I was at that point at the head of the Ministry of Health, that was my request and I'm standing today and I'll always be behind it. I think we've managed to save a lot of people's lives. Those who say you didn't save all lives, I won't even comment. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, I am also standing, it was the same decision and my proposal for one reason only, for your sake and for everyone else. If you think you can compare the Assembly with the cafes, where children of 20, 15 years of age come out here, serious people, some serious diseases and all, I thought there was no reason to risk it, there's absolutely no reason to risk it, and that at that point, we were in danger of your health, your life, and that the equipment we would give here, that we needed more for hospitals and medical workers to treat people. So that's what this is about, and I'm behind it. Everything you have, there will be time, nothing can be hidden or anything, so charge me with whatever you want. Wait for the analysis, do them and charge that it could have been different, that it could have been better, that it could have been like this. Now I suggest you focus, the problem isn't solved, it's not just us, it's not solved in the whole world, no one's returned to that period that was before the Coronus virus. You show responsibility for how we behave today and many of you have asked a question here how we're going to behave, what's the plan and what's the strategy. Gentlemen, if we behave the way I heard it here, then I'm not sure what justice we're going to be in. Is that what the result will be, and how we behave, depends only on us, depends on the citizens of Serbia, how much they want to listen. So it's directly proportional, it doesn't depend on anything else, there's no other possibility. I'd like them to understand everything, we can get out of this, bring the end, only if we're responsible, if we follow the measure. It's no problem for me to repeat them for a hundred thousandth time -- to keep our distance, to use the mask in a closed space, to maintain hygiene more than usual, to wash our hands more often, to protect all the people around us, to protect us too. It's the only philosophy that exists. Everything else at this point is absolutely less important. Don't waste our energy, don't waste our energy, don't waste our time on other things. Let's concentrate on bringing this problem to an end. Every responsibility we have, every one of our adherence to these measures, will be less ill, less deceased. Guys, just keep that in mind and nothing else. For all there will be time, for all the analysis. Analysis can't hide, you understand. Today you can only get a cut, which doesn't mean anything. Let me read you the number, how many years have died, but that's right now. Sir, it will take time for everything to be analysed, and in previous years, and past periods, and cardiovascular diseases, and other diseases, and malignancies, and chronic illnesses, and all others. Maybe now it's popular to say and to see that they're dealing with something. But it's not helping. Coronavirus with these things will not be eliminated. He'll be eliminated only by this, if we stick to this. Please understand that. Let's solve this problem. He can't get rid of it any other way. It's not time. We're here, we're here because conditions have been created. The waist said it. But the profession did not say -- this was not safe for Parliamentarian Konstantinovic, the behaviour of MP Radulovic, who was less than half a metre without a mask and acted as he acted. I mean, clearly, we've laid down what rules they have to be. We have to stick to the rules. Anyone who doesn't want to stick to it can't participate in the process. That's the point. Nothing else will help us but our behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73672	The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73673	Just for a little while. On the basis of Article 88(2), The law on defence, I delivered a risk assessment and threats to the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens to the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Supreme Commander of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The evaluation has done, by my command, the Department of Military Health, based on all available information and has done a prediction of what can happen in the future and what measures are needed to prevent the worst and to protect the lives and health of our citizens. So the procedure is absolutely respected and decisions have been made in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73674	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73675	Thank you very much. Mr. Health Minister, I didn't say the worst results were. That's what you heard, or you meant someone else to answer. I agree that an analysis should be done and I agree that there are far-reaching jobs now, but I do not agree that you as Minister decide whether or not the Assembly will declare a state of emergency or not when it will declare it. If she couldn't do 15, then she could have at least 21 or some other date. Minister of Agriculture - I'm sorry, Minister, I never speak out of my mind. I have a copy of the court's ruling in Kragujevac, which says he was guarding sheep and being punished with 50,000 dinars. You have a number of other data to follow. I can print it for you and deliver it to you. And you can get that solution from the court in Kragujevac. So there's not a single word there about him doing other things, no matter what anyone said afterwards. At the same time, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, let me ask you a question. It is good to allocate two billion and 600 million dinars for agriculture, but that, Mr. Minister, is 22 million 33,000 and 898 euros. Or 0.43% of 5.1 billion euros, the budget rebalance. If you divide by 400,000 just registered, not to count unregistered holdings, that's 55 euros per land. Because you think agriculture is enough compared to 31 thousand dinars, how much is given to entrepreneurs in other sectors? Why can't agriculture have some privileged status once? If there should ever be, it should be in these conditions. Mini hydropower plants have a guaranteed price of 50% higher than the price of kilowatts in the long term. Also, I expect here from the Prime Minister, I commend all the energy companies that worked, but no one during the state of emergency is talking about the fact that most of the energy system is based on coal, thermal power plants, in Kosovo, it came out of Serbia's energy system. What does the government do about it? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73676	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic, right on the line for up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73677	The respected chairman, honourable MPs, measures adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia and related to agriculture are absolutely proportionate to how much of the problem there was in agriculture due to Kovid. I stand responsible behind this, first of all, for three sectors that have been particularly affected. It's the first sector of early vegetables. We have a lot of people around Leskovec, Jablani County, where we have a lot of plastics, a section around Žitoraj, Samarovac and those villages around, Machva, those people who couldn't take their goods out to green markets, which were their main market. We tried some alternative methods, organizing so-called. electronic markets and there's a part of the problem we've solved, but they've been given the right to receive 90 thousand dinars in accordance with the size of their cloak. The second sector that was exposed to the closing of catering facilities was the small dairy sector that produced cheese and milk, pardon, cock and cheese for these catering facilities, because they did not work and had no place to place their goods. The other large dairy farmers neither reduced their price nor stopped the ransom, nor had they had these problems. In one part of the agricultural producers, we compensated the dairy producer by taking over the milk immediately, the rest of us, as financial support, which is included in these measures by the Government, they will be compensated, none of them have to apply for anything, nothing to bear, we have registered them, these agricultural holdings and, in addition to what they themselves reported in the previous period, they will be paid these material assets, funds. The third thing, these are beekeepers who are over 70 years old who are 7,484 on the basis of the register, will also receive financial support, because they were unable to carry out their activities, and for one simple reason only, for the same reason that you probably didn't get a licence, which is because your health has been taken care of. First and exclusively, I would quote, or paraphrased one MP who said yesterday – public health, i.e. the health of the inhabitants is the highest law and has been treated at all times. Everything else, what if it were, I saw this verdict myself, because my ministry immediately contacted that person, absolutely familiar with all things, only that apparently someone didn't read the verdict well, there's a statement from that person that he was guarding sheep, not what really happened. But that's not the point at all, it doesn't matter, so it tried to politicize another case that happened in the Vojvodina area, but what to do. And this story about 400,000 landlords, they won't get all the landlords, the warlords didn't have any problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73678	Thank you. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Chevarlich. Why don't I have a right? () To explain, you have received an answer to the question. Now that answer might suit you... No, I really don't understand you. The word has a People's MP, Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73679	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Ministers, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, above all respected citizens of Serbia, I will try today to be as brief and more concise as possible to bring out everything I really had in my plan for today and to allow my fellow Members of the people who have really been reported for a word, to bring as much information as possible to the citizens of Serbia, because we see that basic and elemental things are not known because they obviously did not follow the situation, and I believe that there was indeed an obligation for each of us, no matter where we are, whether we are sitting at home next to small screens, we respect the measures, to follow really what is happening to the situation in the Republic of Serbia and what is happening to the crisis in which we are, because certainly Parliament is in one way of this crisis. It is important to hear as many MPs as possible, my colleagues, because only with the truth can we overcome political scavengery and attempt to deceive Serbian citizens. And that's what this House of People has to go through as a message to the citizens, the truth and only the truth. I want to get into any discussion for a short while and just really look back at all those people who are in front of this monster's front row, these are, first of all, our medical workers, our doctors, our sisters, and all the other nonmedical staff that works in hospitals, then cashiers, cops, drivers, volunteers who have been so many, who have allowed that first aid, indeed when it was most critical and comes to our oldest citizens who have been and respected the measures of isolation in their homes. I would also like to thank the educators in particular, given that I have two daughters who go to school, high school and basics, and I really had the opportunity to see what online classes looked like on-line. Indeed, during a very short period, we have made it possible to teach very well, and I think I can and can almost confirm that no one in the world has managed as quickly and as good as the Ministry of Education and as Serbia. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the citizens of Serbia for staying at home and for showing that together, unitedly and vigorously, there is much we can really do. Thank you to the oldest, above all, who are in the most difficult period of isolation because they fully understood and supported the measures brought by the Crisis Headquarters. Special gratitude, of course, to the Health Crisis Headquarters that leads Serbia through this epidemic, still tactically, without false steps, responsibly, professionally, above all, even though they have suffered everything that is not in their job description. It's their fault that in these days, we hope to lead the last days, practically battles with the Corona virus. I am grateful, Serbian President Alexander Vukic, as well as you Prime Minister, ministers, because for Serbia at these most difficult times there was no insurmountable obstacle. And if no one in the world, even though they've lost a single life in battle with the Corona virus, can declare victory over this virus, even when the epidemic ends, we've managed somewhere to resist, work day and night, care for every life in Serbia, we keep the situation under control, which really wasn't easy. We quickly came to terms with knowledge, abilities, we managed to get what's most important at this point, and these are fatal outcomes, and we're bringing their numbers down to a measure that I really don't like and I won't even try to compare it with other countries, but it's really much smaller than in other countries that have faced a large number of deaths in Europe, even in the world. Respecting the profession, but also the enormous effort and concern for every life, as I said in Serbia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, with his team, with the government, with the prime minister, in addition to health, also cared about the economy of the Republic of Serbia, about the strategy as far as tomorrow and how it goes, and we heard here that only today we are looking for answers that we are going to do so tomorrow. We have already given these answers, and we already have the goals we are going towards to make it more painless for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow. Given the scenarios of empty shelves and different rows in shops that indeed Serbia has survived in the past probably could have expected, but it is not, at any moment we were supplied and personally seems to me with more attention than in the regular state. And everything we've come across, on the obstacle if there's been a lack of certain resources, a lack of certain products, we've come upon very quickly, but we haven't asked, I'm very grateful for that, the simplest solutions. We've been looking for very effective solutions. What would permanently solve our problem. That's why we came to the situation that we were setting up factories where they weren't yesterday, that we were adapting production, that we were successful from yeast, masks, necessary testing laboratories on COVID - 19, chloroquine, alcohol, disinfectants, and all the way to improvised hospitals, we get very fast, in the shortest, almost impossible deadlines, Serbia actually, without any modesty, got everything that was necessary for the citizens and for life and for the fight against the epidemic. We looked at these pictures, we were witnesses, while citizens of some of the most developed countries in the world took literally toilet paper, Serbia welcomed the measures of isolation prescribed in those other countries. Despite a large number of our citizens who have come from abroad, and that figure is more than 400,000, I don't think we have mentioned it, and we really owe a great debt of gratitude, because we really now understand Serbia's great importance at this point, "Er Serbia", which has indeed shown that none of these 400,000 has been left in any other country if it had a desire to return to Serbia. So, Serbia has indeed received into its laps and anyone who has had a desire to return to their country and to spend either this part or to stay here, hopefully, in the future, working and living, Serbia has made it possible. However, let me not forget, of course, the part concerning "Er Serbia", every honour to the brave pilots and staff, the stewardess, who went to get help wherever help for Serbia in terms of medical materials and equipment was necessary and drove back. The biggest battle, however, we had this opportunity and several times to hear from President Alexander Vukic himself, had and led to... the purchase of a respirator. This was the biggest challenge, and it was also the most significant, because the purchase of each respirator actually meant life for several people, and we found them in a minimum number, regardless of what we invested in our health system in the previous period, and we had a far-reaching number already than we found in some previous years when we found a broken health system that at this point was now able to respond to COVID - 19. So it was necessary to get more respirators. With his personal pledge, the president paid particular attention to this problem and managed to provide enough respirators for Serbia and its citizens. And with a lot of emotion, I'm talking about this because there's a tendency that this problem that we've had and that we've overcome, no matter what the jag for world-level respirators has been terrible, somehow this topic we're trying to actually try to relativate. Unfortunately, from experience, many people I know who have COVID - 19 and who needed this respirator, who fought literally for air, and from the experience I have as a health worker, I know very well what it means when a man lacks breath and what it is like to fight for air. With COVID - 19, you have, in fact, had the fear of a patient fighting for air, so that's one scary picture that every medical worker knows what it looks like, but now fear for life and breath had doctors, because with the disappearance, or lack of a respirator, when there aren't enough we have to make different decisions, those decisions that maybe in regular states we wouldn't make and that's the essence of the problem of getting a respirator, because the struggle for life at the moment when the respirator doesn't have enough, is no longer everyone's right, and Alexander Vukic has just made it possible for his struggle in the field of respirator procurement that we all have this right to live. Thank you all, President, thank you Prime Minister, for not forgetting absolutely no place in Serbia, that all residents and citizens had absolutely maximum care and help, the same care and help, thank you for visiting the most vulnerable areas, thank you to the President who has been so resented that he has succeeded and in these difficult moments to be with his people at all times, thank you for Nis, thank you for Kosovo and Metohija, thank you for Kikinda, thank you for my Panchevo who has received a large number of respirators and where the hospital, the new hospital we had the opportunity to open up a while ago, has managed to become a COVID hospital and answers and still responds to all the health challenges we are currently struggling with. Thank the president for showing by his example that Serbia must not kneel, that Serbia has the strength and that Serbia cannot stop. We are aware that the day after that will certainly never look like the day before, but I am sure that the strong economic pillars that we managed to build in the previous period, in the years behind us, the measures of severe fiscal consolidation, the measures that the opposition at that time, of course, attack most heavily, I am sure that we will be far easier than the rest of Europe and even some of the perhaps far-developed countries manage to get out of the global crisis in which the world has already declared the epidemic undetected on the first day. So, all of this is possible and all of this allows for the economic results that we have achieved and thank those, also, who at these most difficult times showed their true face, showed by who knows which way their ugly, greedy, hypocritical face is certainly not and does not represent the face of a healthy and strong Serbia. Thank them, because Serbian citizens have managed to see again who they are and have managed to see this ugly truth that we, unfortunately, see much more often than they do. It is therefore important to send from parliament real messages, true messages and real data. It is true for them that they have managed to relativize human life, that they have managed not even to have human life as an obstacle to this struggle for power, to fight for kidnapping, to fight for everything we have the opportunity, unfortunately, to watch in the hall of the Assembly for some long time, here in the O.R., we have seen, not so much, because they don't enter the O.R. As usual, Alexander Wolf is the theme. Alexander Vukitch is the target. They're attacking doctors, standing. So, we just heard, doctors are heroes. We applaud them at 8:00, but that's why we show up at 10:00 in the morning in the Assembly to hold a press conference where we attack them most horriblely and then organize at 8:00 p.m., and even so little we can give them support to steal from them. It is the Alliance for Serbia, and that is how the one who leads them behaves, which is Dragan Gilas. So while doctors continue to tremble over every life in Serbia, they see it as an opportunity to attack them once again and to deal with it through doctors in fact with Alexander Vukic, because to the empty public register they see only him as an obstacle. Even if every normal man stopped, when Danilo Vukic was sick and in the hospital, they saw it as just another chance for an even stronger attack. In those days on small screens, I saw a president who had literally whitened overnight, but he was not at all hesitated in the fact and in his goal of winning life and overcoming death. Although he himself asked us to, at this very moment, so decisive for Serbia, when we keep the lives of our citizens, try not to conflict politically and to focus all our energy in this very direction, I really cannot without condemning the beastly political play by Dragan Gilas and his speakers and his plaything, especially with our oldest citizens whom we have agreed precisely with these measures that we will not allow to sacrifice. We're not and we're not going to sacrifice our parents and that's the main message. This is what needs to be explained to all those who invite our oldest citizens to continue to go outside for May 1st, to barbecue in all kinds of centers, parks, etc. that people are gathering. Just hang in there a little bit longer. For Easter we sat at home, I don't see why on May 1st we wouldn't respect the same thing and try to bring to an end what we started? I would ask only one more time, Dragan Gilas, and his bulument, which daily disturbs, in fact, the public, how much and how much has it helped the citizens of Serbia? Did he donate, buy, make, sew any masks? If I didn't ask about the respirators, that might be too much. You might even answer me if there wasn't enough money, which I would hardly believe. Besides everything, when they say you didn't do this right, you didn't do it right, and what would you do? What would your opposition in Serbia do in our situation? I have not seen any opposition leader take hold of Alexander Vukic's hand and say - wait, wait, I want to help; wait, wait, we all want to join together and help, because at this point we are all on the same task, to save the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No, from a safe distance at home, with phones and computers in their hands, Twitter accounts have succeeded and managed to attack citizens of the Republic of Serbia, doctors who fight for their lives and power that certainly is no good to them, not in their regular or extraordinary state. So today we are talking about the urgent measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced during this fight with Kovid - 19. I will certainly support each of these regulations, because this regulation has brought responsible, safe authority, on the recommendation of the profession, in just one goal, which is to protect the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73680	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73681	So, February 26th, the doctor and state officials sneezing. They say -- well, that sucks, go to Milan to shop, send the women there, wherever the virus goes to the Serbs. One of them says -- well, this is a good opportunity, I read somewhere that alcohol kills the virus, so, since I like to drink, I'm going to spread it a little bit more. That's where I quoted the president of the state. A few weeks after that, Dr. Con said they didn't know where they were, that there was nothing from the protective means, and that panic was on an invisible level, and this one was happy that he sent women to Milan said that he was a collateral victim, that someone had to play the fool, so, well, he had to act like one. On March 4th, elections were called, and on March 1st, according to Dr. Kisic's memory, he was the first to suffer, and later he said it was a lapus. On March 5th, the Egyptian Health Ministry and the World Health Organization reported their second infected who returned from Serbia several days ago. It was broadcast on RTS. Therefore, everyone, including the state administration, could see that. On the fifth, the SNS handed over the election list. The sixth, when the list was handed over, was the first case of infection. On the 15th, the state of emergency was brought to the edge of the Constitution. In any case, without unnecessary obstruction of parliament, parliament could meet here, outside, anywhere, but it could. The cafes work until March 21st and not only the small ones, but you and the clubs are held by some of your officials who are over 300 people and they were working at a time when parliament couldn't work. On March 19th, I proposed to the Serbian government a supervisory commission, which would be composed of the opposition and the authorities who would be there to control it instead of parliament, if it can't be every day, but to give legitimacy to what is being done, not to be after doubt whether this was true or not and rejected. I thank all health workers, soldiers, cops, postmen, people at the market, all those who do something now, volunteers, and especially those from the state administration, because they do their job professionally, even though they have such directors, ministers, government and president. In the last 15 days, Serbia has been the first in the Balkans for the number of newly infected, whether it is seen as an absolute number, whether it is seen as a percentage, and that is the consequence, that is, it happens after a month of disgusting measures, where the people were kept home in police hours and we are still the first. Think about it. Buying a respirator. You say you found 400 and some of them right. As far as I was concerned, one day there was no need for more than 149. So that 400 was enough. How much was bought? At what price? Fifteen thousand euros each? Three hundred thousand euros, 200 grand, 800 grand, five grand? What plane is he flying to pick them up from what warehouse? It's melodrama at the most primitive level. Economic measures, the part that is well prescribed is well prescribed. One hundred euros per capita, it's a pre-election toy, and that's what the Fiscal Council told you. Exactly, he said it was the biggest and incorrigible mistake, and the introduction of a hotline phone to apply for it is another insolence more. I invite all citizens to take that 100 euros and give it to someone who needs it if they don't need it personally, but don't leave it here. The main problems were gastarbaters, journalists, opposition and Ana Lalic, Zoran Kesic, Ivan Ivanovic and Žaklina Tatalovic, but also 400,000, says Vucic, the worst people who came to him at the most difficult time to return, and then, I see today, ironing against that statement. So neither are you the state as you present yourself, nor is everything done in a good way, because if it were done in a good way, Vukic would be here today defending those decisions, and he wouldn't send you, who you say is your boss. It's explicit evidence that, of course, with all the efforts of serious people, who have done their job seriously in hospitals and all around, that what the government has done, that it has nothing to do with something that can be called the best, that we've had unseen happiness in what a relatively small number of people have died. Every life is important, of course, and I don't know how many more there will be, but it could have been done much better, much more efficiently and in a way to see that this is a government that does its job properly. (President: Bringing the end. ) Therefore, the citizens of Serbia, be careful, sit at home, otherwise you will be in a position to be treated by people sitting here on my right. A question for the Minister of Health... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73682	Mr. Zivkovic, it's been a while. (Zoran Zivkovic: Let me finish the sentence. ) The time has passed, and I refrain from giving you a warning, and now I will tell you why, my colleague Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: Answer the word, then... No, no, no, you should know this. Your crown, Mr. Zivkovic, is not happening on another planet. A friend of mine passed away from Corona. A colleague has passed away, a former MP whose mandate has been verified in this assembly. And you're playing and you're saying you're keeping these people sitting on your right side so they don't treat them. (Zoran Zivkovic: So what's the problem? You're just showing how much you respect all of us and your colleagues and that your condolences to the victims and minutes of silence when this session began was your simplest farce. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73683	Thank you. You're really talking and talking to people here in the best democratic manner in that democratic manner that you've shown so clearly while you've been in power. It's that democracy and how you address your colleagues here in the Assembly, but it's an honor to you. Yesterday you announced "Sablja 2". We know that you are extremely strong, that you are extremely dangerous, and we know that you will certainly have the opportunity to fulfill this threat of yours. We're not scared, we're not particularly impressed, even though we know how strong you are. No, because we know what we did, how we did, because we stand behind our words and stand behind our actions. You can certainly continue, and I'm sure you'll continue to threaten people who are doing their best, who are here to file a report, who, unlike the state of emergency you've introduced, have organised a press conference every day, that they can inform the public in good time and exactly what we're doing, what is the situation and that all media representatives can come and ask all the questions they want to ask. Okay, threaten us, keep going, but let me tell you, don't insult the doctors, don't call them happy, unhappy, don't talk to them that way. Don't insult the profession, because you're probably much more expert in epidemiology than they are and I believe you're the most professional in everything, because I see you know both the rights and the infancy and the epidemiology and you know everything. And you were the Minister of the Interior, and you were able to do everything in life that was given to you and to grow vineyards and make wine. You're an expert on everything. But don't insult the doctors or insult the profession, don't insult the people who just do their job. Don't call them ugly names. Don't talk to them dirty. One more request, don't insult the women. Don't insult women. Do not insult women by the fact that if a female person performs a function, she must automatically be a companion. It's not right. It shows your personal attitude, shows your democratic potential. It also shows your attitude towards women. It shows all your misogyny. But here, I'd ask you to try to hold back, even though I can imagine how difficult that can be for you personally. Don't defend the press. Don't defend the press, you who, as Prime Minister, have called journalists at press conferences with marginal phenomena. With marginal phenomena you called media representatives and now you've found yourself a big Democrats to defend them. I don't think there's any need. For those of you who don't have amnesia, I think it's an insult. Don't defend the media, or the journalists, you who as one of the main people, I think, at that time, during that state of emergency, explicitly and strictly prohibit public intelligence, ban the breaking up of the press and ban all other communications and information regarding the state of emergency and measures related to and during the state of emergency, except for the transmission of official communications from the competent state authorities. Such censorship Serbia has never seen before, and has never seen it before. This shows your democratic potential, which you really show here, and every time you answer the word, when you get the word, and when you don't get the word, with all the names you honor all of us here, both the government representatives and your fellow MPs. Again, it really shows your face. I thank you, as I thank the MP with whom you were in power until 2012 on proposals and on how we can treat the media and how to treat journalists and suggestions, you did not bring it up, but did some of your colleagues, on how we can change and how we should implement economic measures in the post-crisis period. Unlike you, the announced economic measures, which have already started to apply, have been welcomed by absolutely all businessmen and business chambers, both the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and foreign chambers of commerce, both domestic micro, small entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises and large foreign investors. I think he's saying enough about it. You will allow me, as Prime Minister, not to accept your defense of journalists and not to accept the economic measures and criticisms that come from people who, while leading the country in an incomparably smaller crisis in 2008 and 2009, managed to be so successful in managing this country that 600,000 people were out of work, 600,000 families found themselves in suspense. Today we're talking about the biggest crisis since World War II, and as far as the economic crisis is concerned, we're talking about a deeper crisis than the one before World War II. And so far, we've seen about 6,000 people lose their jobs, but in absolute numbers it's just over 2,000 people, because in other sectors, some people get jobs. You will allow me, with all the respect or lack of respect I have, personally, to you, to disobey your advice on the media or on the economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73684	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. It's a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73685	Thank you very much. You've got it all wrong, but it's good for you and your inexperience and your ignorance of matter. You don't even know that my responsibility to the government ended in late 2003, and I'm responsible for it. There were 200,000 more employees at the time than there are in Serbia today. In those two, three years, as far as I was responsible, the authorities have all the nonsense and all attempts to destroy Serbia in the 1990s have been ironed out. What makes you uncomfortable is that I tried to do agriculture and grow vineyards, so I would never grow ficus, a vineyard is one useful thing. There's no need to insult me, because you can't insult me from afar. By the time I got back, I'd like to ask you or the Minister of Health. You first. The Gerontology Centre in Nis received a new director who until yesterday was the director of the Gerontology Centre in Kučev, and otherwise in 2017 the Anti-Corruption Agency sought her shift from Kučev because she hired her family and her hat and hand. I'm asking you -- is that supposed to be a substitute for 38 dead or 40 something, according to new data, from that gerontological center that was a state institution, is it, which you're responsible for, that Vulin's army was allegedly guarding, and that's where 40 people died in the last months and a half? Now you're putting someone in there that the Anti-Corruption Agency has driven out of Kučev. What good would they do next to a military hospital in Nis go into making Chaira a temporary hospital? What did you do with the VMA to fix that vent, so there'd be a place where patients could be admitted? Why in Nis patients are staying in a new clinical center that also has a central ventilation system like VMA?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73686	Thank you. National MP Vojislav Seselj has the right to replicate and to present the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73687	Mrs. Brnabic, you're right when you say that you've hired prominent medical experts in this fight against the virus. Indeed, there are a lot of prominent people, smart people and people with scientific work behind you, but in some way you set yourself up with these attacks, because you put the most ridiculous virus in the world, and now it explains to the people that based on the invention of Nikola Tesla, he will find a universal cure for God and ask what will help him and that naive people who have a lot of money will help him. There, that's the funniest man on your team. You should have read it. Who was the assistant minister at Dosmanli's, how can he enjoy your trust? Once a dosman, always a dosman, showed he has no brains, no patriotism, no knowledge, nothing. In that government, we also had a minister of enlightenment who asked to be kicked out of the textbooks based on Darwin's theory of evolution, so that it was written that the Lord created the cosmos and man in seven days, but did not explain what seven cosmic days were, because the earthly ones didn't exist, I guess. We had the same thing in the Dosmanian government, and it's for everyone's science. It was the government with a stake and a rope and that's why Serbia suffered a terrible death under it. Our regime, if nothing, has preserved the factories under sanctions, and they've destroyed it all and sold it out for a bagatella and money abroad. That's why you have to make sure that you don't set them up with a slow move. Don't put people like that on your expert teams. He can't be an expert who says he's against the vaccine and he's running the campaign and he says the crown is the funniest virus in the world, and now he's pulled Nikola Tesla out, and now he's remembered after almost 100 years to carry out Tesla's inventions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73688	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73689	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm not used to sitting here talking, and honestly, it bothers this visor a little bit, but I'll try. I'd like to ask for a little silence. I've been listening to the presentations very carefully, and I'd start with that famous state of emergency. There is one serious difference -- the state of emergency today and the state of emergency that was introduced during the "Sabbe" action, because the state of emergency was introduced for political calculation with opponents, and that was the essence of the state of emergency, also counter-constitutionally introduced. Some say that the Constitutional Court did not report back then, so it did not exist, at the time of their democracy there was no Constitutional Court, you had no one to complain about when you were being violated by some elemental human rights. This is a state of emergency to avoid spreading the infection. I have to admit, I'm shocked, I've been reading all kinds of articles in the paper for days, and even a group of people who were in front of parliament yesterday, they're holding a protest against the dungeon. Watch out for the dungeon. Dragan Gilas tells us we are the biggest prison in Europe. Looks like someone's bothering to sit at home. Whoever doesn't seem to like to sit at home seems to like it much better on the street to be, his street house. You know what? It's scary, I have to admit, it's not a little naive or easy, especially for older people who can't get out, but somewhere, maybe this crown, let's say, reset it, or sense it, we started spending time in a better, better way than we did before, we came back to the family, we came home, we came back to some original and normal values. After all, we have been shown, as powerful as you are, that you have money I don't know how much you're not stronger than God's will, to return you to something that's natural and normal, because it wasn't normal for you to be able to boast so much money because right now you've been shown that money is worth nothing to you, but it's worth anything to you that you've planted somewhere, did you produce something and whether you have to afford to eat. We have to go back somewhere, and that's why I say that agriculture, and that, Mr. Nedimovic, I agree with you, is the most important thing, because of that food and that peasant, we live. You can have hundreds of megamarkets and we all like to go there, but the mega market, when this kind of situation comes, can easily be closed, so they're empty shelves, and that's what you have in Western Europe. If you have a garden somewhere or somewhere to plant something and eat, it's an extraordinary thing. We can't all live in cities, nor can we all live in buildings, but someone has to come back to the country. I think this is a very good thing that maybe it'll change our way of thinking, just like in health care, Mr. Lonchar. I think Serbia can become a serious force now in health because it has shown excellent how it reacts and has excellent knowledge. Our system has proved to be very tough. He can talk whoever he wants, but we're helping other countries today. Serbia has welcomed it to assist Italy in health-related material. I think that we can even export our knowledge, in terms of really some innovation and be a serious regional force, as far as health care is concerned. (Vojislav Seselj: Take Nestorović out. I don't mean humane, Mr. Seselj, I mean generally about knowledge, I think we have great doctors. You know, to us today when someone tells us what our health care is like, I'll remind you how it was in their time. Eleven years, you correct me, Mr. Lonchar, have not given a single specialization. Eleven years, they didn't give one special. We had a mass-running doctor, so they say, often now they call, so he says, "We treat children via text messages." Twelve or thirteen times as many children are being treated today as in their time by a fund that separates health care from abroad. Twelve or thirteen times, I think. Here, you'll tell me exactly. There's another problem, which is that nobody, and I'm only criticizing the government, you can't present it to the public. You're constantly on the offensive, I don't understand. People, and our party and everyone, we're constantly defensive of these lies, and we keep pulling something back. Mrs. Brnabic, this is a criticism for you. You were not allowed to accept when Alexander Vukic asked that regulation be abolished for false news. You had to accept, answer him, to say, no, there will be a regulation, there will be arrest anyone who spreads false news, everyone, because in Germany you give such false news, that there is no material in the clinical center somewhere, you've got jail time, and only here is it coming out to some quasi journalists who do it on assignment and then like here to be democracy. What democracy at a time of emergency? Do you know what their democracy was like at a time of emergency? They arrested journalist Dragic Petrovic from Kragujevac. The man never even got a solution to what's in custody, never found out what's in custody. After 25 days he came before the prosecutor, he told him – you are free. He got a man 550,000 dinars of compensation. Gradisiqi Katic gave 4,000 and some euros in compensation, because the man was in custody that he had no right to an attorney, had no right to do anything. He never knew what he was arrested in his life, but that's how they got arrested. They shut down the media as it occurred to them. That's what Mr. Seselj knows very well. That's how it was in their time, that's how the media worked in their time. You shouldn't have pulled that regulation. That regulation had to exist because no one, especially now, must cause panic. Tomorrow they're going to write how people in hospitals die massively. Shall we say this, "So do not, please, let us get lost?" We're constantly on some kind of offensive. It's really not normal anymore, it has to be cut off once. You have the right to be a journalist. You have no right to lie. You know how it was in their time, too? What they wrote to you from the Serbian government was a communication, a statement you had to have in the media, and no one else was allowed to report. Try to dare to report differently how the Serbian government gave you, they immediately shut down your media. That's how it was in their time or they arrested a reporter. So there's another very serious problem here. There's no cure for this virus, there's no cure right now, and that's why he's a problem. I claim when the cure is found, I'm not a doctor, but when the cure is found, it will be at the level of the cold, but until unfortunately, older people die. This is where people have to be explained, because someone is inviting them out to the street, people here have to be explained that by going out on the street, especially the older people at the time of that most difficult blow, one leg is in your grave, and the other one will join you if, God forbid, you get caught by the virus. That's the point, and that's how it's supposed to be said. Look, since they usually say it's not scary and dangerous, tell it to those in Bergham, there, tell those in Breshi, Milan that it's not dangerous. They had nowhere to bury people. They say, "We have terrible measures." Look in Spain. You can't go out in Spain today. Do you really think that someone is crazy about destroying Real, Barcelona, Atletico Madrid, etc., because, behold, they want people locked in houses? Do you really think we're all assholes here, that we're all idiots and lunatics here because that's why we want to destroy our economy, that no one goes out on the street? What kind of fool would do that? What kind of fool would do that in the world? Please don't accidentally let something go on May 1st. Really, don't give in to anything for May 1st because for May 1st, if they didn't feel so bad about Easter, they can stand for May 1st and not eat oranges. So here's the question of people's health. If we're going to let everyone go in oranges and hang out and make love and I don't know what they're doing, I'm sorry, then you shouldn't have kept anything out of shape or anything, but for May 1st, we're going to have to keep everybody away from everything so we can try to keep this right and, of course, live with Korona, as Minister Lonchar said. I think it's one of the most important messages. We need to get used to living with Corona. She's something that's inevitable and will exist for how much longer. As far as false news is concerned, there's really more to be taken care of. Why? Because there are people here all the time right now, so Mr. Seselj mentioned it, and they're telling us how they're going to put chips in our vaccines. They already know, it's not even on the trail for that vaccine to be made up, they already know that Bill Gates put the chips in the vaccine. There's a serious mix-up going on here. Why? Because I'm not saying now about this vaccine, but I've received a vaccine before as a small vaccine against Variola, you've all, I believe, also received a similar vaccine here. If it wasn't for the vaccine, do you know what kind of death the population would have been? They're here against the vaccine for the children, but if the children don't give them God they get meningitis or something like that then they're running into our health system – protecting my child because it's hurt. The state gave you protection. I agree, you shouldn't go under mandatory because it's certainly your individual right, but it's also the right of the state to tell you – well, well, you had a chance to protect yourself so you didn't want what you want from the state to pay for your treatment. So here somewhere it has to be made clear that such can't really spread any more false news and that for this spread of false news these Google doctors, Twitter doctors respond here, because this is really something that's serious. This threatens the safety of the population. Guys, the world is changing. Absolutely the world is changing. The forces of those who were will no longer be forces and we need to figure out where our place is. I see here they're always talking about the European way. I don't mind. We can be as much as we want, we can be most of all, but the EU, the people, after this crisis, will no longer be any force and that is clear to all. It is known that there is a trimovir – the United States, China, the Russian Federation. This remains, with all due respect, including the EU, but something that is irrelevant, and we need to be extremely realistic about where our place is. Yes, co-operation with many EU member states, both Hungary and Italy, etc., but objective to be – there is knowledge of where power is in the world today and where force is and who we should co-operate with, and this is great what we do with China. We need to have even better co-operation with the Russian Federation and also try to have the best relations with the United States. These are three forces where Serbia should find its place. I can't understand that I'm destroying applause for doctors. That's not normal. If the purpose of your policy is to pound into pots at eight and five, bang as much as you want, but I'll do it tonight because I don't want the criminal, the robbers, the mob that ruined this country and who now wouldn't have 80 respirators, I don't know if they had everything in common, I don't want them to come back to me, because if they were in power to kill the population we'd have today. That's why tonight at half past nine, at 20 and 30 o'clock from my terrace, thank God, it's big, and I'm out loud to play through my own voice something that goes against them and I'm calling on all people to do something similar at 20 and 30 o'clock through a real civil reaction to this nonsense. I'm glad that call goes through social networks. So from 20 to 30 hours – stop the tycoons, stop the thieves and stop the bandits who destroyed this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73690	I am aware of the mistakes Djukanovic made. You have the right to a replica. I'm aware of that mistake he made.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73691	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with great care to Vladimir Djukanovic, and in much of his presentation I agree, and here, I accept this initiative, it would be best tonight at half-nine from all the balconies to hear the song "Get ready, get ready for the Chetniks". It will be the best answer to the new world order and to those Serbian traitors, and the patriotic spirit of the population will be strengthened. But there's something else I wanted to say here, to say something that I don't agree with, and you, the advancers, have the credit for making this big now google around May 1st. If you had ended that communist holiday in time, if you hadn't led your coalition partners, the Socialists, now you wouldn't have any problem, May 1st would be just a day like everyone else. But what you're celebrating, about 150 years ago, the strikers in Chicago, the police killed some of them, and now we're celebrating it as a holiday of work. Who knows who she killed and what she killed and why she killed. As far as we're concerned. They won't celebrate in America. Do you know who else but the communists celebrated May 1st? Adolf Hitler. Adolf Hitler was on left-wing traditions, his party was socialist. Don't celebrate the whole world. A lot of people got rid of it, and they know there's nothing to celebrate here. The Russians will stop, too, slowly and they're on their way to free themselves of all dogmas. It's about time we got rid of it. Don't take the socialists for granted. If you need them as a coalition partner, there are better ones than them, you can take them as coalition partners. Right? But stop celebrating May 1st and you've solved the problem. On the other hand, vote in favour of our amendment to end the state of emergency at midnight on 3 May, and all these problems are solved, we move on to a state of emergency and solve problems in another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73692	Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73693	Thank you, here, I have to agree with you. As far as I'm concerned, I speak for myself, completely opposed to the May 1st celebration as a holiday. First, the holiday is just what's in the church calendar, which is in the red letter. But especially around those uraniums, it used to be a Djurđevdan uranium, someone to ruin Djurdje's day, took May 1st and celebrated those pointless dates. Let him mark whoever he wants, but personally, I accept, here's what you say, I agree with you, it's a completely pointless marking. And what's the only thing, if we're already talking about the rights of workers, well, the elemental order I guess is that some unions are organized, so I don't know what they're doing, and not that they're going to eat on oranges and that sucks, parks get dirty. So, for these reasons, I absolutely agree, you're not giving in to any pedals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73694	Wait, what did you just say? About the suspension on May 1st. That's in the bill, so let's discuss it. Don't discuss it now. Ambassador, if you talk about May 1st, it's not in the Rules of Procedure. I'll put it to the vote right away and we'll cancel May 1st so we won't discuss it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73695	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I understand that political commitment here should be manifested, but this is how we humiliate the rights of those of us who celebrate for a reason on May 1st, respect the holiday of work in every way, respect the idea of the left, respect the idea of communism, how who, too, respects the rights of those who are Orthodox believers, the rights of those who are Roman Catholic believers of Muslim religion. It just doesn't honor this home at all. While this looked a bit like a joke and a political comment, it could be accepted, but that from this home these messages go to citizens of Serbia who do not celebrate 1 May to grill, but by respecting the idea of the left, is something that is inappropriate and you were obliged to stop this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73696	I'm sorry, but you can't force your ideology to other MPs. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Find me where there is disrespect for one political option, that the other must accept. That was until the early 1990s. After that, it fell apart. There is no one-party system, and I have no duty to accept what my left hand commands. Tito's dead. I have to let you know. Therefore, I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and everyone has the right to express his political position on May 1st. Seventy years, people who haven't kept quiet about these fluids on their left. Now you don't have to keep your mouth shut, whoever it is, whatever the political options are. So, you're wrong, and I won't be on your side, so you vote I hurt the Rules of Procedure. No replica, but I hurt the Rules of Procedure. What article says that all of us must be delighted with the celebration of a holiday that some leftist option has established in Yugoslavia. We don't have to. So we'll put it to a vote, and then we'll see... (Jorge Komlenski: Rules of Procedure. ) Can't hurt the Rules of Procedure's answer, it doesn't exist. It's been four years and we've learned so much already. I can't give a word to the Rules of Procedure. To discuss that we must respect the ideas of your party. We don't have to, here I won't respect, I have my own opinion, as well as the other MPs, most of them in this House, just to tell you. It's not correct, and I've devoted one session to saying that there's been a lot of harassment of those who don't think as parties that existed until the 1990s. Let others say something. And we represent the citizens of Serbia, not just the left, the left, and the rest of us to keep quiet about the peace in the house, not just the left, but the rest of us. So I put it to a vote. When the Rules of Procedure are injured, let's see how many votes you get that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, which every MP has the right to state his position on any holiday or topic in this House. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica, mentioned me. I don't know, did you mention Vojislav Seselj? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73697	Mr Djukanovic and President Putin said several years ago that a totalitarian regime ruled during communism in the Soviet Union. He was against the collapse of the Soviet Union as an alliance of brother states, but he was not against the collapse of totalitarianism and is always being fenced by this totalitarianism. And you who want to join the EU, you various left-wing people, all of you who are in a coalition with advances, should know that it is now one of the conditions of the EU that the Member States condemn communist totalitarianism, communist ideology. You'll have to give up your communist past once. And for the record, more Joseph Broz Tito killed the Serbs than Adolf Hitler, and that's an irrefutable fact. You have stopped the excavation of mass graves around Serbian cities, it will have to continue soon to determine the exact number of Tito's victims. But I am glad that Djukanovic agreed partly with my remarks, but I would be even more pleased to have supported the release of "Prepared, Prepare, Prepare the Chetniks" from all the balconies tonight, to be the answer to this advocate of totalitarian communist ideology, who think that communism was something positive in our history. No, it destroyed us the most. That's what broke Yugoslavia. If Yugoslavia had remained a unitary state, there would have been no decay. The communists introduced federalism, the communists invented various nations, and now every nation of fiction wants to rock, want to prove itself, goes their separate ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73698	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73699	As for the song "Get ready, get ready for the Chetniks", I don't mind, it's a song from the Balkan wars. Jovana Babunski was first and foremost sang, so I don't mind, as well as her processed versions for General Mihajlovic. So let's let whoever he wants, mostly let that protest tonight from half past nine be an absolute protest against the tycoon's return to power. I have one request, first of all, to the government addressed here, and it refers to what Mr. Seselj was saying. You know, this is where people get arrested if they break curfew. And all right, that's the way it's supposed to be, and everyone has to answer for who doesn't respect regulations and laws. But, I'm sorry, what they did on Dorcolo last night, they all have to answer. And you can't let someone gather people and protest in the middle of a curfew. The law is the same for everyone. They have to answer for it. They're gonna infect someone. Maybe it'll remain an epidemic because of them. Maybe it'll spread somewhere. I'm sorry, then who's going to bear that responsibility? Again, the state of Serbia will have their irresponsibility to pay. So what was done at Dorcolo last night was a crime and the state had to react and process each one. That's an objection to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73700	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73701	Thank you. I'm very sorry that I didn't get a chance to become a member of the Communist Union at 16 years of age, and I'm very sorry that I didn't write a doctorate -- the Marxist concept of armed people, but I just want to say one thing. I have no intention of going into controversy here with those who view Serbia as their own country and who really have a state-of-the-art relationship with all of this, I want to say the next thing. Gentlemen, you've got left-wings, most of us, here you go, break the holiday law, and then we can discuss it like that. And I suggest to you, both of you, even though I sang "The Marched King Peter Guard" and "Prepare, Prepare, Prepare, Chetniks", before many of you could think it, that tonight from the balcony goes "The March to the Drin," because that's something that we all share, if we want good Serbia. So, my dear colleagues, I think we should spend more energy on something other than the fight against neoliberal capitalism, than we should be exhausting ourselves here on some sort of banal thing. It's not Tito Communism, and it's not just Communism that happened after World War II. Communism is a good idea, and since you as a very advanced man, smart, young, at the age of 16, you became a member of the Communist Union, I don't know why I wouldn't have reason to respect the communist idea as an idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73702	Dusan Bajatovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73703	Honored Chairman, Article 27. You're my friend, and I have great respect for you, and that right-wing commitment of yours, and even a Chetnic, I mean a friend in the sense that we know each other, that we're neighbors in Novi Sad, sometimes we've had coffee and opened a bridge together when they didn't give us, but what do I mean? It's not good for the president to have an MP. That's why I called. Secondly, Mr. Duke, I might be singing with you at some point, "Get ready, get ready, Chetniks," but you'd never be with us. And I don't want to talk about tombs. Vojislav Seselj: What? ) Sing Partisan songs. I don't want to talk about tombs. It's not a good topic. But if you'll excuse me, there's something I want to say. We, leftist and socialist were and being. And there's no reason to deal with that fact. When we go to the polls, we'll count the political options... (President: Is this a breach of the Rules of Procedure? )......................................................................................................... Don't make it look like the Socialists aren't supposed to answer because there's a primate of right-handed people. We're not going to war, are we? Just one more idea, if I can. (President: Ambassador, is this a violation of the Rules of Procedure? ( b) Article 27 — insult of dignity. That's what I'm talking about. (President: That's right, but you're talking to everyone. If you want to get into the middle of the night at half past nine... (President: I don't understand you from the mask. I'm sorry, you're right. But I got scared. So, if you want to unite tonight at half past nine, based on anti-globalism, based on what we're looking at differently in Serbia... (Zoran Zivkovic: To burn yourself... Never mind, Zivkovic. Don't do that with the song "Prepare, Prepare, Chetniks". There's no unity about it. There is unity about Serbia's future and how we view it. And the day-to-day political opinion... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73704	You turned yourself off. The emissaries are getting it. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because Article 27, if you're interested, or did you just want to give some kind of lesson to all of us who think differently from you? So, no injured Rules of Procedure, Article 27, since the Parliament's dignity cannot be hurt by the fact that there are MPs who represent a large part of Serbian citizens who do not think like you. So it's not a violation of Parliament's dignity. Or do you want to prove to us that the dignity of the congregation is only if we, who do not think as left-handed, are silent and patient and admire your ideas. I'm tolerated, I'm with you in the coalition, because we all work well together for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, but it's normal for us to differ in many things. So I ask my distinguished colleagues to learn to be tolerant of a different way of thinking. It's time. Serbia is not what it used to be and we have to tolerate each other, to like or like each other, whether or not we love 1 May, whether someone loves these or those songs, and by being together in the coalition, we have shown that we respect each other, that we work for Serbia and that we do not share our country. In that spirit, Bajatovic, we will vote for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I mean, I'm gonna put it to a vote, and the fact that we're not gonna vote, nothing. Let's move on, to discuss measures that Serbian citizens are particularly interested in, that is, regulations and the introduction of a state of emergency. Djordje Vukadinovic has the right to speak to me, just to tell me exactly, since there have been some changes to the parliamentary clubs, as is called your parliamentary club, that I may determine a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73705	There was no change in our club. Where it was, that's where you were informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73706	You want to meet other MPs, just so we know the name, I'm not kidding.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73707	I'd love to, Mrs. Gojkovic, just don't book it for me as a time, don't count it as a time of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73708	No, I won't take your time, just help me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73709	To save Serbia, New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73710	Thank you. So you have the salvation of Serbia, New Serbia, you have six minutes and 33 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73711	Thank you. So, as far as yesterday's debate, she agreed or disagreed with what was heard, she seemed, at least to me, and it was possible that someone else saw and seriously and to a large extent or significantly resembled something like how, when I'm speaking in total, about all the discussions and in some way a rather appropriate situation that brought us together, as well as that situation that had previously separated us for months and a half from this home, it seems to me that today we look more like what the Assembly looked like before and which is why one part of the opposition MPs, which I don't support, but which is why it boycotts these sessions. I have to admit that the good part of this discussion seemed like a ace at ten or eleven, I never know how much, for arguments of that, or in favor of them. Of course, we should also learn, as the President said, to tolerate opinions that we disagree with and that we do not like, as well as to conduct civilised dialogue on them. That's exactly what I tried to do. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to answer to Minister Lonchar yesterday. Of course, we should also learn, as the President said, to tolerate opinions that we disagree with and which we do not like, as well as to lead civilised dialogue preferably. That's exactly what I tried to do. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to answer to Minister Lonchar yesterday. Anyway, the fact is, I want to go back to it, talk about these measures, the fact that it was more appropriate that this emergency measure was brought by the National Assembly, the fact that it would be appropriate to the Constitution, the fact that it carried certain risks with it, but my God, every profession, every profession has some risks. They usually call and criticize the MPs, because I don't know how to live a comfortable life. In that sense, there was a reason, I would say it would have been better if we had done it this time at a one-day session, as it would have been good if, at least by the model of any European Parliament, we had sat down and considered these measures. It's not right now that we have 44 points, actually 44 points, to adopt one vote, and one of them is the budget rebalance. I think at least the budget rebalance should have been, Mr. Mali, to be excluded from that package. More important than that, I remain on the stand, I am not convinced with all that I have heard from both the representatives and the ministers and the Prime Minister and the ruling majority that there has been no underestimation of the problem at first. I also documented it with quotes, yesterday as much as there were statements in just seven days, meaning in late February and somewhere long ago, somewhere in front of the escalation of the epidemic in Serbia, how much the guy's statement was that it was the funniest virus to not come into Serbia at all, so that the statement from the very end of February, that 25 times more people die every day from mosquito bites, to the fact that the Corona virus is weaker than the seasonal flu and so on. That schools should not be closed for just two days but have been closed and said by the representatives of the profession, those who were visible at these press conferences, the highest representatives of the government and the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and the health minister as well. In that sense, therefore, I remain in the belief that there was an initial understatement, and then it moved on to dramatization. If only only a week earlier these measures had been put in place, surely the consequences would have been milder and perhaps there would be no need for these radical closing measures that have been taken. That's my opinion, and I'm not lonely. On the other hand, I completely agree, and I never said, even brought four compliments and compliments to what was well done within these measures, but I also said what I think is bad, this kind of closure is counterproductive, not just from the human freedoms point of view and every state restricts for some human freedoms, it is clear, but also from the point of view of a successful fight against the epidemic. It is only China that has taken more radical measures. There were no such measures in Europe. Serbia is not China, with all due respect and respect for the Chinese model, both in the fight against the epidemic and the economic model. Serbia is not China, and neither is North Korea, and we just have to figure it out. And trying to make it in any form won't work no matter how good it used to seem, no matter how attractive they may seem. Even in that China, not even, but let's look at it this way to look at China how many times did the president of China address himself during the crisis with the Corona epidemic in China? Once or twice? How many times has President Putin spoken? How many times has Angela Merkel spoken? How many times has the British Queen called? McCron? So, what I'm saying is that no one, especially in Europe, and here outside Europe has had that case that we have, that the daily address of the head of state, just floods the entire media space. It is clear that there is a need for something to be said, not to mention when it was 1999, it was the first emergency, or war situation these generations have experienced, how many times has President Slobodan Milosevic addressed? These everyday occurrences may seem to be good, propaganda, effective and useful, but they exist counterproductive. And it's starting to irritate these whistles that I see so much in the way of some, these whistles at 20.05 o'clock, so this slamming into pots or whistles have become, in part, a partial reaction, a respected colleague and dear gentlemen to that exaggeration with the appearance of the head of state, no matter how much support he has, it's not controversial, and no matter how much he loves a part of his supporters. I repeat and stress, it would be more useful if he showed up more rarely, if he had appeared once with some representatives of the opposition or had completely retreated to another plan and only discussed representatives of the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73712	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73713	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I'll try to be brief because there's a lot more of our colleagues who want to talk about this. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I would like to express my condolences to all those who have lost someone in the battle with the Coronary Virus, the state of emergency in which we are located and who we are working, without doubt further giving us the seriousness of this session because we have before us government regulations that we are discussing under the draft legislation on the validation of these regulations. Without a doubt, all the measures were in favour of the preservation of life and the health of citizens, all the measures that were relevant to the health of our population, but they are equally important, I would say those measures that followed a little later, and they concern economic support to reduce the negative consequences caused by the coronary virus. Yesterday, we could hear from you, Mrs. Brnabic, something that is very important for all of our citizens, which is to talk about, that is, five billion euros. And, as a country with five billion euros, we fall within a circle of the most developed countries that will implement measures to help the economy. It is important for citizens to know that our state reacted quickly and appropriately, that all resources were put into the role of protecting the health and life of citizens and that the safety of citizens was a priority when all measures were taken. Given that all the steps the state has taken, I would say that we have responded very well to the challenges and problems that we have encountered for the first time. It is evident that Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government have done absolutely everything the profession has done, primarily in order to protect the population. While on one side we have absolute commitment to the fight against the virus by the highest state summit, by the state authorities, I will remind you that the SNS immediately interrupted its campaign activities and the SNS officials agreed with the president that we are not involved in politics, that we do not comment, even if we do not respond to the attacks that we are being directed at, but that we are all fighting for human lives together, each in our own way. On the other hand, we have those who used this period to continue a dirty campaign against the authorities and now, of course, finally using the epidemic of their political action. Some have been eager to say that they may now be participating in the elections, although no concrete election actions are yet to be discussed, the dates. In that sense, from that part of the opposition gathered around the Alliance for Serbia, we will undoubtedly have these self-proclaimed political leaders who are now lagging for the armchairs, wanting to take over only and solely for that reason. If this was wrong at a time when Serbia was fighting for health and for the lives of the population, the citizens will tell them about the elections that await us. Still without the programme, to turn exclusively towards insulting Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government, who struggled day and night to create conditions, to preserve human lives, even doctors and other medical workers attacked how they work for the government, how they work for the SNS and now instead of supporting the doctors, applauding them for banging into the sherpas. Of course, in a perfidious way, fear is used, the nervousness that is being used among all of us, of course, is very normal if we consider the situation we are in. Finally, I would like to call on all Serbian citizens to have a sense of responsibility, to protect their health, to keep people around them healthy, to help the state, to help themselves because we can only win this fight together, only as Serbia. There will be time and opportunity to enter a political struggle and ultimately check the election will of the citizens. So, I don't know what the anxiety is or what the impatience is. In any case, and in this period of a month and a half, we may have been able to see one thing, which is that Aleksandar Vukic has shown that the best statesman Serbia has ever had, and that the Serbian government has shown that it can deal with just any situation, that it is capable of doing so. The seriousness and responsibility, Mrs Brnabic and the ministers you showed at a high level, could not at such times be praised for such responsibility and at such speed and taking measures and solving problems as Serbia. Of course, Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian government, the Serbian Progressive Party and our coalition partners have shown for who knows which times that citizens and states are first of all, therefore, ahead of some personal or any other interests. And right now, the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia have failed the citizens' exam again in the solidarity exam, because while the health of citizens has been compromised they have plotted, dealt with politics, some kind of campaign, instead of providing support to their fellow citizens in their own way. In the end, I would like to say that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will fight even more in the coming period and sit in a state of emergency if necessary, we will support these proposals that we discussed in the voting day. Since my esteemed counterpart Djukanovic has launched in parliament an avalanche of the proposal that we can spend in time tonight, since tonight's curfew is at 1800 hours, and I call on citizens to honor that curfew, but I can also watch a show that will be hosted by Aleksandar Vukic, so yes, here I also contribute my contribution with suggestions on what for tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73714	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73715	Thank you. I'm sorry you didn't give me your word as soon as I called to respond to another wave of hypocrisy and politics that we heard from the MP and to ask if you could see what you were doing. Doesn't that seem like an obvious hypocrisy to you? Now for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. See what people do when you need to think about a state of emergency -- why haven't you introduced a state of emergency yet? A planet in quarantine. Serbia is waiting. No state of emergency will be worse than in Italy. Close emergency schools, don't worry about our children, don't worry about the citizens. Why are you letting the economy work? When you introduce restrictive measures, why did you introduce restrictive measures? There was no need for such restrictive measures. I've heard this countless times before by several MPs, so here's my personal opinion that you were able to allow older people to walk, no matter what the experts said, no matter what the doctors said, no matter what the epidemiologists said, no matter what they said, you think the measures didn't have to be so restrictive. We have not made political decisions, but we have listened to the profession and I am glad that we have done so and I am proud that we have done so, because we have good results behind us today, we have the least mortality rate in this part of Europe and one of the smallest mortality rates in the whole world. Now, that insufferable ease of irresponsibility and insufferable irresponsibility, so perhaps you can, but all happiness is not by you who decide the lives of people in the Republic of Serbia. This whole story is pointless to you, it all comes down to how to attack Alexander Vukic and it all comes down to how to attack Alexander Vukic, no matter what the price, no matter what the moment, whether it's an emergency or a regular state, whether people die or not, no matter who can be your ally. Corona virus, you found him as the best ally in the fight against Alexander Vukic, rooting for Corona, celebrating the Korona, only if he could weaken Alexander Vukic and no principles there, no principles. You're talking about the daily address of the head of state, so President of the United States, Donald Trump talks every night, McCron talks to his local audience or abroad, Boris Johnson talks to him every day, and he talks to the hospital every day while he's in the hospital, and what bothers you is what he does as he does, and more, much more than that, it bothers you that Serbian citizens believe him so much. Thank you for admitting that's true. That's right. The only thing that bothers you is that it works so much and that the citizens of Serbia trust him. He spoke not every day, every day he spoke to the profession, and there we saw an incredible amount of hypocrisy where it was first -- he kept talking to Aleksandar Vukic and talking to Ana Brnabic, why we want to hear the profession when he was talking to the waist every day, and we didn't show up, then there was - where they ran away. There have been criticism at press conferences -- where are they now missing to answer our political questions? And that politics, and that hypocrisy that you think we can never win because everything we do was really supposed to do the other thing. I can tell you with great certainty and certainty that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognize it to the greatest extent possible, that each time it was necessary to do the other, that why you did not introduce an emergency, why you introduced an emergency, why you introduced an emergency, we alone do not have restrictive measures, these measures are too restrictive, but it is good that you acknowledge that the whole purpose of this attack on Alexander Vukic. Two more things. When you talk about those sherpas and whistles at 20.05 p.m., and yesterday you talked about it and said - the medical profession deserved applause. I agree with you. The medical profession deserved a round of applause and a lot more than applause and they owed us, well done, thank them endlessly. But what the medical profession didn't deserve is the political abuse of that applause. It's those pots. When you know that there will be no percentage of citizens who will go out in a state of emergency while people are losing their lives or others are fighting for their lives and while you see that someone is working day and night to fight against something that can't be fought by America, Spain, Italy, or much richer countries, and we're fighting, richer, strong and good results, when you know people won't support it, and then you get on something that's good to use politically and try... And you don't care about doctors and health workers and teams of people who put their lives at risk every day to save ours and you don't care about the gratitude of those people and you don't care about the people who lost their lives and the people who fight for their lives. The only thing that matters is that you're exorcising your political agenda, and that's a shame. I'll tell you one more time, that's a shame. He who remembered to use applause to health workers at eight o'clock in the evening, to protest against dictatorship at eight and five, all those who sought restrictive measures are now protesting against dictatorship, which is the unbearable ease of irresponsibility. It's this hypocrisy that has been shown in full light during this crisis. They're those people. Finally, as far as this is concerned you're trying to explain and find excuses and excuses for those who are boycotting the Assembly at this point, who are criticising for two months why the Assembly doesn't meet, but for two years, they've been boycotting without boycotting wages, that you're trying to find excuses for them, explanations and excuses, that you're trying to invest in them by probably being their spokesman here because God forbid they attack you on Twitter, there's no worse curse in Serbia than that they probably attack you on Twitter, so don't try that. No, there's no excuse. There is no explanation why someone who is a MP is not presently in the National Assembly. They're not like this, they're not like that, they're liars and cowards. Liars and cowards and there's a point on the discussion of what they are. They may be a little less cowardice when they come here and tell us all the lies they've been putting on social networks for two months so we can answer them and we can discuss in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whether what they're saying is true and true or not. Nothing further than liars and cowards these people are not. Thank you for admitting, you said explicitly that the only thing that bothers you is that citizens have confidence in Alexander Vukic and that the whole struggle is how to use the Koron virus as the best ally in the fight against Alexander Vukic. You see, that's what citizens recognize and I'm sure they'll be able to reward and punish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73716	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73717	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, allow me to say a few words on this subject. In fact, yesterday and today, there was a lot of news in the congregation, and I must honestly say that I was in doubt what should be said on this subject. Apparently, the matter is very simple, the decision to introduce a state of emergency, but listening to some colleagues yesterday and today I have to tell you that I remembered one thought of the famous German philosopher Jørgen Habermas who said something to the world about Kovid who now told the world about something that could be applied, unfortunately, and the discussions that were heard in the National Assembly both on this subject and on other topics, and he said – so much knowledge of ignorance was long gone. I have the impression that certain discussions are very consciously placed, that citizens are misinformed, that the real significance of the danger that Kovid – 19 carries with him and everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the President of the Republic of Serbia, has made the virus stop. In fact, we can say, here, I'm going to use this thought of Jyrgen Habermas, to know all about the virus, and only a few things are unknown. It is not known how to beat it, because the fact that 165 medicines, if they trust the media, have no reason not to believe it, test at this time, to see their effect in the fight against the Coronus virus or 66 different vaccines, says that the world is seriously trying to find a response to the Coronal virus, but there is no answer and then the logical question is whether Serbia, a small country, has done everything it needs to protect its citizens. My deep conviction is that it is. I read the words of the CEO of WHO a few weeks ago, when he said this virus was ten times more dangerous than the virus that was in 2009. As a citizen who was in self-insulation, I regularly followed the news at 3:00 p.m. and a report by the Crisis Headquarters. I also heard Dr. Cono mentioning, and I remembered that in 2009, unfortunately, that's when 135 people died, and about 6,500 people were infected. The virus was ten times weaker and there was a vaccine as a way to solve the problem. Should we then question everything our government has done, or the Crisis Headquarters, but also the Government? The crisis headquarters is because they're people who've been directly referred to all of these things related to the fight against the Coronus virus, but also to the Government. The government is creating a general environment and, of course, the President of the Republic. He doesn't need to be forgotten either, because a lot of work fell on his back, because he runs one crisis headquarters, and the Prime Minister runs another headquarters. When you put yourself in the position of an ordinary man, what's he interested in? An ordinary man is interested in seeing if there is a country that knows how to fight a threat like the Kovid virus. 19. Yes, we have such a crisis headquarters and we have such a state leadership who knows it. The second dimension of this relationship is whether we have taken the right measures, whether we have a relevant professional health system and whether the measures we apply are appropriate. Yes, no offense to anyone, only self-insulation has proved to be the most effective method of suppressing the spread of the virus due to the length of its life, or limited duration. All other measures give results, but this is the most effective. I'm also saying this in the context of the measures that have been taken. What is the third element that interests citizens? Of course, it's whether at the time when freedom of movement is allowed, if I can find what they need in stores. Yes, the stores were full and that's part of the government's work. Could the drugs have been found in the pharmacy? Yeah. It could have been possible that part of a day or one day some of it didn't exist, but the shops and the pharmacy were full and people could supply themselves and they could beat this dangerous virus, or find a solution to what they needed at the time. What else is there to say? We know that on February 26th, the first meeting was held on the occasion of Kovid – 19th. I have to say that the WHO world crisis against the pandemic marked the 30th of January and then the order of events that followed are saying that our country has done the largest number of things that can be done in this situation, because a lot of things are not known. Did we pass the exam? Yeah. I wouldn't want to bid the numbers, because the figures are, let me say, a relative thing and we should wait until it passes, and that's just what we're talking about. But I've been looking at all the data on the spread of the Coronal virus these days, and if we take the fact today, for example, the figures that say that over 31,000 people are infected. I won't talk about the dead, because every human life is worth it. But, let's say, countries that are approximately our size or population, like Belgium or Switzerland or Portugal or Sweden, they have three to four times more infected, and unfortunately the deceased have 5, 10, and more times. It all makes sense, it has meaning. I think the best thing that the Crisis Staff has done and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia is that it has given people the opportunity to speak and their position, their opinion, to define all those decisions that the crisis headquarters has made. What was important, could be heard in public, is that these are competent people, that their opinions were relevant, that they respected the reality, that they were trying to make our country's capacities, our health opportunities, which proved to be far better than they thought, let alone what was said, to have found a solution to many open questions. I can't help but take this moment to say a few words about a subject also mentioned by the Prime Minister yesterday, which is solidarity, help. When our President, Mr. Vukic, said there was no solidarity in Europe, it turned out to be heresy and that it was the EU's criticism. When someone from France or Italy says that, it is considered normal, because it is then exchanged opinions within the EU. To avoid being misunderstood, I am absolutely in favor of our country being an EU member and I look forward to the day when it will happen, but I fear it will be a long job. Why? Because EU countries also have different interests in relation to us. That, after all, was seen and now about this thing about Kovid. It is not known that China is our great strategic partner. It is not known that this friendship lasts very long and that it is very rich. It is forgotten that when the virus appeared in China, it is forgotten that the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, first sent a telegraph of support to China. It is forgotten that the government of the Republic of Serbia has begun to collect assistance to the People's Republic of China. It is forgotten that foreign minister, Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, left in January of this year, when no one wanted to go to China, left, met with his colleague. He was the first and only foreign statesman to go to China and then show that Serbia supports China and that support is given to what China is doing. Then why are you surprised if China came to our aid first? Why should I be surprised if President Vukic says he's a brother? You know, in our terminology, a brother is someone closest to you and will always help you. They helped us. That help is both great and important. It's not just medical equipment. It is extremely important for the health system, but it is an important and moral dimension to help. You know, when doctors who have been fighting the virus in the cities of China come to you with their experience, it has far more meaning than it seems formal, because people who have fought and won the virus speak. Then that means our country, too. And when they say that this hospital can be used as a Kovid hospital and when they say that we can't and why we can't, when they say that another kind of hospital, like the Fair or the Chair or Spence or something else, that makes a lot of sense. Thanks to the rest of them. Thank you, and the EU. Thank you, and the Russian Federation and the United States. Thank you all, because Serbia deserves to be helped. But first of all, thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thank them for their, if I may say, effort and attention and willingness to accept these measures. These are the measures needed by Serbia to protect the health of Serbian citizens. As difficult as it may seem to someone, measures are being taken to protect their health, and it must be repeated over and over again. Thank you to health care professionals and doctors and nurses and technical staff, all those who have, since the virus appeared, done everything possible to save the health system. Because the health system is one constant that is extremely important and if we hadn't saved the health system, then it would have been some traumatic images, as we could see those videos from Italy, Spain or other countries. Dear President, we must speak objectively of what awaits us. I don't think the dangers are small. I'm not sure everyone understands the dangers of the Coronal virus. The measures must be gradually mitigated to ensure that the effect of these measures is correct. Anyway, there's going to be an opportunity to talk. What has to be said is that the crisis staff, that the government, that the President of the Republic, is that they passed the exam and that's the most important thing. For what? Not because of them. There are elections, so citizens will decide on the political dimensions of their engagement, but here is the point, it is Serbia. When all these numbers are taken and compared, then it can be seen that the decision to introduce an emergency was good, that the measures that were taken were timely and that they had given effect and that, for now, thank God, with a very small number of patients and a very small number of those who died. I think that's the best news you can hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73718	Thank you, Professor Obradovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73719	Thank you. During today's and yesterday's discussions, we heard an opinion that the alleged introduction of the state of emergency was unconstitutional and that, apparently, as one of the MPs on this side said, it was uncontestable. Well, that's only controversial, because it's not true. What is not disputed and in no way can be doubted are two facts. First, that we have preserved the health system, that it has remained stable, that we have not experienced the fate of Italy, America, France, Spain, etc., even though what we have in us is incomparable in terms of what they have, both in terms of economy and in other terms of words. The second incontrovertible fact is that we still have the virus, like a monster that's gone over the globe, very, very little we know, certainly more than a month ago, a month and a half ago, two, maybe more, but still very little. When something is unknown, it always appears, and it's natural emotion, fear of the unknown. But, distinguished ministers, fear is not just big eyes. Unfortunately, there is something in fear that is often said – lack of knowledge, and a lack of confidence, and then we come to various healers, prophets, conspiracy theorists, many other things, which appear as invited and competent to comment on something they cannot comment on because they do not know. I will return to my discussion on what is a purely legal focus of emergency. What I'm about to say to all the lawyers, without exception, are looking at the same way -- the ipso facto ipso chasing. What does that mean? Both factual and legal. We are not the ones who will assess whether something is constitutional or unconstitutional, because we cannot usurp the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Only the Constitutional Court can say whether the decision and this body is constitutional or not. But what I'm sure and what I'm going to agree with my colleagues in the profession, the government's decision to ban the movement cannot be the basis for an emergency, because if it were allowed, then the government would have a compromise over the Assembly, not the other way around. But that in no way means that the introduction of an emergency was unconstitutional. Why? Because we as a congregation make a decision that confirms the introduction of an emergency. We're Validating, given the three circumstances. I ask you, dear colleagues, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to consider them carefully in a very short time. First, was there an epidemiological analysis of the situation in which Serbia was still present? Second, the consequences that could have occurred that the state of emergency had not been declared. Third, most importantly, the results that have been achieved and in a causal relationship are with the introduction of an emergency situation. Dear Ministers, let's start with the essence of the truth. Was there an epidemiological analysis? Yes, it is. Did this analysis indicate a huge virulence, a huge level of contagion, and at that time the calling of the Parliament of dangers? Are we all aware here, are we at this point, one of us a virus bearer? What can, God forbid, happen in 15, 20 days? Who's going to be responsible in that case? The one who called the assembly. What happened back then, when the state of emergency was in place, was based on the results of the profession, which is an epidemiological analysis. Second, the consequences. Well, it's not just the consequences that we've heard here, they're much wider, you know them much more, but the fact that among MPs there are those who, unfortunately, have compromised diseases, impaired health. Should such people be exposed to dangers? It's a question of which the answer is clear, perhaps even unquestioned, but I asked it exclusively from the legal focus. Thirdly, the results that have given the state of emergency are immeasurable, because we are coming into a situation to ease the measures, to slowly start getting out of the crisis and to see that not the light at the end of the tunnel is present, but that we have already stepped in the direction of solving the problem. When it comes to measures, respected ministers and prime ministers, the legal measures must have two functions. The first function is to be in the function of removing the cause of emergency, and the second is that these same measures that involve certain restrictions, the excessive limitation of movement, are effective. Are these two functions fulfilled? Of course they are, and there is absolutely no dilemma. Is there any measure beyond the function of removing the cause of emergency? None. Are the measures effective? It's already showing that they're effective. Gentlemen, these are facts that cannot be questioned. This is what's called an ipso facto, in the legal sense of words, and these are the reasons and facts that are subdued under the appropriate norm, under the appropriate provision of the Constitution. This is Article 200 of Article 5. The constitution, which says: "When the National Assembly is unable to meet, the measure deviating from human and minority rights may be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by means of a regulation under the signing of the President of the Republic of Serbia. “ What is unconstitutional here? What's against the Constitution here? What's here that would be a violation of this norm and the facts I've pointed out? What is it that can be used as a counter argument without being qualified – no, absolutely false? The only thing that's true is that in these three branches, the government can't be more than legislative. That is true and there is no single dilemma about it, but there can also be no single dilemma about the constitutionality of the introduction of an emergency. In the end, I want to point out something else that is very important to say. We Socialists in the SPS parliamentary group, as regards May 1st, call on citizens to respect for their health the measures that are in place, to protect themselves and to protect others, and we are absolutely sure that all free-minded left-wings will define citizens and how well they know that this holiday celebrates in the way this situation requires, and the symbol of May 1st will remain larger and it will never change precisely because of the holiday dedicated to the huge number of citizens of the whole world who celebrate it. I call on all MPs to support all proposals of the Government, when it comes to our obligation to confirm the validity of the emergency situation and to confirm the correctness and legal regularity of the regulations, i.e. the measures taken because of the state of emergency. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73720	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73721	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Nedja, what's her last name, Jovanovic, first of all, as a lawyer -- how can he say he can't dispute the Constitutional Court's decision? He, as a lawyer, had to be in a situation many times in his practice to challenge the Constitutional Court's decision. This country has accepted without our participation that even after the Constitutional Court's decision, legal protection can be requested from the European Court of Human Rights. I have a class to teach you what you had to study in a judicial exam. How did it not bother you as a lawyer that people are being tried through a video link, that guards are sitting with a man in a prison cell and he's being tried in a courtroom? How could it not bother you? We also had cases that some regulation had been completed, and Nebojsa Stefanovic, and he had no right to do so, so that later, as it is said, was convalitated, is that correct? That's what the government fixed afterwards. It seems to me that Zlatibor Loncar has made such a mistake, so people should have gotten used to the government only with the signature of the President of the Republic, as the official head of the executive government. By definition, the President of the Republic is the formal head of the executive. They could've brought it in, but it's gonna take some time to confirm parliament. Here is the basic question – who has found that parliament cannot meet? Who's to say that? Where is this act to say someone - we tried to call, couldn't?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73722	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73723	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, I'd like to take a look at the transcript of my exposure. In one single word, I have not said in a single letter that I cannot dispute the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I only said one single sentence behind which I stand firm. We cannot usurp the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is the sole authority to assess the constitutionality or unconstitutional nature of the individual act, ultimately, and the decision of the Serbian Parliament. No one else, and no one else can even have that submergement legally. Those were my words, and behind those words, I am categorically standing. As far as the measure is concerned, I also said, and I'm going to do it exactly again, the measures are in function of removing the cause of the emergency. They must have some efficiency. If they have it, they have, some results show, time will show to the end. Most importantly, there are legal circumstances around which the waist is divided. It was just commented on the Skype trial. As a lawyer, I agree that there is a possibility of breach of the principle of directness in the procedure, the possibility of breaching the principle of justice in the process. Did she maybe need a change of pace in that direction? Was it time to make changes to the CAP? What matters is it important to say whether this measure was in the function of removing the causes of the emergency? Yes, it is. Does this measure have its effectiveness when protecting those present from the possibility of contagion? Yeah. That's what the waist says. Could the congregation have met? In Article 200, point 5 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not prescribed anywhere to determine the reason for the inability to meet, nor is it given to the Parliament's jurisdiction. But that is why I have said very precisely that there are three circumstances that must be considered when a decision is made by the one to whom the congregation is empowering to take these measures. It's done in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73724	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. Mr. Seselj, we're finishing a circle of replicas. Please, you know that I gave you a chance even though it was more for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There'll be an opportunity. (Vojislav Seselj: He meant me. Please. He didn't mention you. I don't have any basis now. (Vojislav Seselj: Let me just say this. Doctor Seselj, I don't really have a basis, I can't give it to you right now. (Vojislav Seselj: There is a man with me. There'll be an opportunity. But he didn't mention you. Let's move on. Milena Turk has a word. (Vojislav Seselj: I have to give him a fresh answer. I'm asking you for your understanding. You know I always look to respect everyone, even when there's no 100% chance I always give a word. Thank you, Professor, for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73725	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say at the very beginning that I am really proud of the response of the state of Serbia to the pandemic of the Koronavirus, to the response of our health system, to the work of all health workers in Serbia, to the work of all employees in the Police and the Army of Serbia, to all those citizens who have followed the recommendations of the Crisis Staff with extreme discipline. We owe our special gratitude to volunteers who, without saving themselves, risked their health and made themselves available to their fellow citizens in an effort to provide them with daily supplies, medicines, so that they would not miss anything during this pandemic. The Republic of Serbia's response is better than many more developed countries, because we have indeed made certain measures in due time, responsibly and resolutely, listening exclusively to what the professional members of this headquarters say. A good response from the Republic of Serbia lies partly in Serbia as an economically stable country, which could also bear the budget of the Republic of Serbia as we have so far taken, and of course the measures envisaged for the future in support of agriculture and economy. Also, the good answer lies in the fact that Serbia truly enjoys the world’s reputation and that it can rely on its friends. A large amount of assistance from China, Russia, the EU, aid in terms of protective equipment, in the form of a respirator when we really needed it, but also help that came from experts who were willing to share their experience and knowledge with our doctors. So, Serbia has made all decisions with extreme responsibility and timely action to protect human health and life and has made a great effort to establish capacity and resources in order to make this fight as effective as possible. At the same time, parallel to this fight was worked to prepare a package of support and economy and agriculture. When it comes to the economy, there is really great support for all those employers who have not fired more than 10% of the workers because we want to preserve every job and this very support is being viewed in the delaying of tax and contribution payments. Therefore, economic support measures relating to the postponement of the payment of taxes and contributions during the duration of the emergency situation, but also to the provision of three minimum earnings to the staff of three months. Indeed, this shows how important every country is, how important it is to preserve our economy and to continue to develop and recover after the end of this pandemic. Also, to support farmers, 2.6 billion are envisaged, which is indeed extremely significant and will be of great benefit to them in the future period, and parallel to that, during the duration of this epidemic, it has never been questioned whether pensions will be paid in time, as well as social contributions to all users of the Social Labour Centre. Of course, not only has this not been questioned, but every local self-government has brought certain measures to support its citizens, so local self-government has organised the preparation of packages with food products that have just been intended for pensioners, the users of social work centres, which have been delivered to their home address to help them get through this period of the pandemic and to show solidarity and unity during this really difficult period. In addition to all that the Republic of Serbia has been doing, Kovid ambulances have been established, remote teaching has been organised, volunteer centres have been established. All the time, the stores were well-provided. Production and alcohol and protective equipment and respirators have been established. So we were trying to ensure that each segment worked, and I really have to point out that during the first days of the epidemic, the decision was made to support health care professionals and to be grateful for their hard work and wages were permanently increased at 10%. So, a special accent after this pandemic will be put on the support of business and agriculture, but what is very important is that the finance minister has stated that capital products will not stop, that is to say, to continue at full capacity and to build corridors and build hospitals, schools and me very much rejoice that the construction of the Moravski Corridor will continue at full capacity because it is our future and that is the pace that we have become accustomed to our country in the past few years since it has led SNS and Aleksandar Vukic to develop Serbia. During that time, part of the opposition stood on the steps of this high house and called for days to convene a session of the National Assembly and not even show up at the end of that session. They have thus shown to what extent they are hypocritical, to what extent they are willing to abuse this subject, to what extent they are willing to deal with politics, to deal with certain petty, personal interests, and have indeed shown that they are willing to deal exclusively with foreigning and politics without responsibility. Without any responsibility, they call for a violation of the measures they have proposed and prescribed doctors and it is very comfortable from the comfort of their home in a comfortable chair with access to the Internet simply to look for blames and mistakes for those who work daily on the ground, to measure the distance of whether they have done everything by regulation, to insist on looking for any mistake and grudge to those who are trying to provide everything necessary for the citizens, to those who are trying to make this fight with this virus as successful as possible and to come out of this fight as winners. These are truly unscrupulous people who have not appeared during the course of this pandemic. They didn't show up to offer help, or to offer funds to pay, to volunteer. From the comfort of their home, they only knew that they were criticizing and that they were dealing with the collection of cheap political points. So they're politicizing this entire pandemic, instead of representing the interests of the citizens who sent them here, who have delegated them here to fight for their interests. During that time, they attack those who risk their health and who are on the ground every day with their citizens, attack the president, attack his family, his children, and that's the only means they can use. The danger hasn't passed yet. We still must not relax because we are questioning all these measures that have produced the results and success that we have achieved so far. So we have to keep in mind that we follow the recommendations of the profession, the crisis staff all the time and simply keep in mind that our only goal is to preserve people's health and lives. Serbia has fought so far. Serbia will continue to fight. And out of this pandemic fight we will surely come out as winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73726	Thank you, Mrs. Turk. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73727	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Ministers, honourable Ministers, fellow MPs and, above all, citizens and citizens of Serbia, two full days to discuss the introduction of an emergency resulting from Coronavirus, whether the Assembly should have met before or not, and all claims are a little bit accurate. What I did not expect to listen to in the Serbian parliament for two days was one political upgrade that was not prohibited, but somehow it seems to me that at the beginning of this pandemic, Corona was such a threat that we were all in fear. I asked myself, as someone who was also perhaps a critic of the way things were done, or someone who didn't agree to the end, what exactly would I have done if I had been in someone's place? That fear for human life, no matter whether it's his or his or her family, his children, his parents, he can prevail. I don't know how all of us as MPs would feel if someone invited us on March 14, 15 or 18 to sit on these terms, I agree, this could have been done maybe then. I guess the waist we've been listening to for 40 days has estimated that it's not smart, that it's not safe and, in the end, it's not necessary. One of our colleagues said that Corona taught us a lot, and I agree, and she made us do something else, which is that we read a lot. So one percent of us who deals with politics finally read the Constitution. We didn't have that habit before we came to this stage that someone should be criticized. Maybe there were comic books that were read, so time was killing, it wasn't a bad interest, but what I was going to say was that it had nothing to do with comics and that I wouldn't make comedy of myself, or this discussion, or that I wouldn't fit in, is that, you all said, we owe thanks to the medical workers and I think that as a nation we'll never repay to that system that we didn't know, I have to admit it. We didn't realize how hard it was. But we don't owe thanks just to them. We owe gratitude to the working class, because only that group of people worked. Whether or not we're talking about miners, whether we're talking about people who worked in electricity, supermarket workers, workers in the South Stream, or Turkish Stream, on a few kilometers section that didn't stop, people who risked their lives, and thanks to which we won't have an economic problem that others will have. Nothing after Corona will be the same, that's for sure, not in Serbia, but globally. What brings us tomorrow, I guess, tomorrow, since we've been dealing with yesterday. What's for sure is another one. The parliament will support a decision to introduce the state of emergency. Should that have been criticised and looked back, I agree, but I still say we spent a lot of time on something that was yesterday. I wish the Serbian Parliament would invest more energy in what is tomorrow. The government of the Republic of Serbia has worked in its full capacity, as much as each of the resolution ministers has been assigned or won space. Some of us have had less and some more opportunities to see in the media, but that doesn't mean that some have worked higher and some have less intensity. I think every one of them had a mission and I think he answered his mission. If we were to start collecting political points, I could add something else to this statement, but it's really not our intention. It is my intention to thank the citizens of Serbia who understood above all the circumstances in which the whole world is located, and our small Serbia as part of it, I intend to welcome all citizens of Serb enclaves in the southern Serbian province, who also followed the recommendations of the Serbian government, although I must say that what is so-called. Kosovo introduced measures, not measures for any humiliation, but were highly recommended. So it's all our country and it's all our people. First and foremost, I'd like to congratulate Minister Lonchar, it's on a video interview with the so-called so-called. Minister of Kosovo, because I think that's how you first encouraged people who live in conditions that are not human at all. We should have stepped out, and thank you for that. That's why you have my deep affection. Besides, as far as the profession is concerned, I don't understand myself, nor would I criticize you, nor would I praise you. I could respond to these throws, but I just won't, because I don't have any need for controversy with you, even though you're infinitely dear to me. What's important and what I'm going to say in the end, relying on Ned's statement, and about the May 1st debate, about the International Labour Day, kindly please, the International Labour Day is a working class and everything else is our habits. We adopted them all... (Vojislav Seselj, why do you slaughter lambs? ) This is what we have left of those who, against May 1st, they say, loved the lambs. The most important thing is to remain conscious of yourself. So please, nor did Corona pass... Chairman, would you allow me to speak without having tossing, I can't hear myself? (President: Please allow the MPs to speak. So, if I understood the profession, Corona didn't pass. If I understand the doctors, we are in one straight line and in the hope that it will all end. But our tomorrow is still uncertain when it comes to the Coronavirus. In that sense, it may have been smarter if we had cut our discussions short, it would have been safer for 500 people, as much as it participated in this Parliament's work. In the hope that we will still defeat Korona, because I believe in Serbia and the Serbian people, I will end my discussion here and support the government's measures and decision to impose an emergency, although at the very beginning I may not have understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73728	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The word is Mr. Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73729	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, I hope you're all well. Not being in the congregation in days of such extraordinary circumstances means deeply not understanding the role of the MP and running ahead of responsibility. And this relates equally to a government that only after 40 days and more decided to sit down in the congregation benches. Three topics are most important on today, as managed by the crisis, what is the damage, whether there are those responsible for its increase and what we do the day after we survive the virus, survive the economics. The constitution of the declared state of emergency is as you said yesterday, of course in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, if you take your job, free of political pressure. It is doubtless that at the very least constitutional indetermination has been misused to curb democracy and criticism that is necessary for society's progress. If the Skype trials are possible, the Assembly had to and could find a way to start its activities early and do something in these historic days, so that citizens would better respect and understand the situation and take better measures. Even if the tide was not safe to organize, why didn't the online session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee to clarify the declaration of state of emergency. If last week he could have occupied the Administrative Board to discuss the rebalance of the Assembly budget, why yesterday and today did not meet the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economy, to discuss the economic package and budget rebalancing, but to discuss all this only here in the plenary, together with the package of pet walking measures and we are making this Partisan Chetnic concept of what it really represents to the citizens on May 1st. So, the shortened version of the budget rebalancing has as many as 54 sides and here as there is much to talk about, so that citizens understand whether there is a plan for economic survival after surviving health. Why is democratic debate avoided, if this is an opportunity for the authorities to make their brilliant arguments, let's say it explains why it is justified by budget rebalance to abolish nine billion dinars to the Ministry of Health and the health center in Jagodina, as citizens are concerned by the state of the health system before the possible second wave of the pandemic. The beginning of this crisis has already marked this famous press conference we're talking about today, which we learned yesterday that it was the crown of the first meeting of the Crisis Headquarters. That meeting must have been very good if it was so crowned. There we heard hits like, shopping in Milan, the funniest virus in history that only exists on Facebook, and we heard it's being treated with brandy. Afterwards, we heard that we would make the vaccine very quickly, as if it were just about as simple as cooking that brandy. And, the profession that was negligently looking at all of this, but at that time a plunger was thrown into the wheels and it was difficult to explain the necessity of the measures taken to the citizens, her credibility was undermined and her subjection to political pressure was questioned at the press conference at the time. Later, the propaganda of measures, the distraction of fears of insufficient cemeteries, the apocalyptic text messages, the illogical accusation of citizens who had been disciplined at home for an epidemic situation, created the impression that we were actually not living in the fight against the epidemic of the profession, but that we were living a propaganda show with the political motives of the German "Spiggle" the other day in his article called the presidential horror show in Corona dictatorship. The consequences of this confusion are that today many citizens on one side think that the measures are more severe than the epidemiological situation requires, while at the same time they think the epidemiological situation is worse than the government in public. It's a public perception. So, in Serbia, there are no foolish and unreasonable people. If they are well explained, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel did on two, three occasions, people will understand and behave rationally and there will be no need for the president to address them every day from television, even though we know that he likes to do so. It remains unclear whether we are a secular state as the Constitution prescribes or we have a state church that is outside the law, before which the president must kneel, that he prays to behave reasonably and that at the same time to tolerate calls for violations of the law by church dignitaries and violation of the ban on movement in church gates for Easter, while our parents themselves imprisoned in their homes marked Easter by disciplined adherence to the measure. This pandemic has also been used for its kind of foreign political propaganda one, I'm afraid, foreign policy turn. So, that double propaganda China has come to, I'd say, Dutch-level danke. We have asked as a United Democratic Serbia to announce donations. They haven't been published to this day. Here, I will now provide data from the Serbian government's database. In the last five years alone, the European Union has donated 1.8 billion euros to Serbia, 44 times more than the first next donor, which is the United Nations. For the health system in the last five years, the European Union has donated 160m euros, 12 times more than China. It's just data for the last five years. In the same base, 1.2 billion are Russian development aids, but these are loans, donations are not recorded and it is unclear whether they are recorded anywhere. I don't have much time, since it's all united, I'd like to delegate one topic that's important, and it's missing in the government's economic package, and that's the retail price of oil derivatives. So, the calculations we've done show that there's no reason for the retail price of oil derivatives to cross 120 dinars per Eurodizel liter. It is currently in Serbia 140, almost 150 dinars. This is the price of Eurodise at the OMV pump in Tristerstrasse in downtown Vienna, 1,099 euros, that is 129 dinars. I am free to say, the delusion is that retail oil prices in Serbia do not follow the decline in the price of crude oil on the world market due to excise duties. The excise is fixed, it does not depend on any variable imputence. The reason that retail prices in Serbia do not follow the decline in the price of crude oil is a dominant, almost monopoly position that one oil company in Serbia has for political reasons and the fact that all other oil companies are monitoring that price policy and we have a kind of cartel association on the market of retail oil derivatives. This is very important because the fuel price is a key cost-imput in the economy that needs to be the basis for economic survival after we survive the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73730	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73731	Mr Marinkovic, first you should not have given the word to Vladimir Djuric, because he is the thief who stole Sasa Radulovic's mandate and is illegal in the National Assembly. Secondly, you kept your mouth shut when he told a lie here that we had a state church outside the law. Serbia is a secular state and has proved it, but has special respect for seven traditional religious communities. All these religious communities, Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Islamic, Jewish and others, have complied with a public requirement to avoid mass gatherings of the population during religious holidays to prevent the progression of the epidemic. At the same time, this man here in the National Assembly claimed that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. Instead of being held in prison for 20 years, he's coming here, you give him your word if the MP, as if he's enjoying the trust of the citizens, as if the national tribunal, doesn't exist for him, stands only the traitorous sector to whom he belongs, here acts as the worst traitor, attacks our friendly ties with the People's Republic of China, attacks our brotherly ties with Russia, acts like the worst traitor. This is an objection to you breaking the Rules of Procedure. You shouldn't have given him your word, and when he said we had a state church outside the law, you should have taken his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73732	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73733	I congratulate you, you also managed to run, run, and you figuratively kick the president of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. I guess that's the most important thing right now and this whole debate about fighting Kovida-19. I don't know how, I really can't understand how you've all personally come to look back at the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who at the beginning of this fight said he wouldn't politicize things, that he wasn't going to deal with politics, that he wasn't going to respond to political attacks, lies, criticisms, threats until all this went away. He didn't mention you, or your party, or any other party, in any single word throughout this struggle, but you all had to express yourself, to say something negative about Alexander Vukic, while, of course, forgetting all the other things that man did and calming down political tensions in the Republic of Serbia by calling on all the people from all the political options to dialogue on further electoral actions and all that man did as Serbia, we get respirators, protective equipment and be prepared during this crisis than many other richer countries. It's amazing that there's not a single word about it, but that you've managed to run to make one of your contributions, just so you don't say by accident, don't be criticized tomorrow on Twitter for being with Alexander Vukic, because you're sitting in this assembly, because of course, we all know how dangerous people are with so many resources and so many media, so God forbid they're criticizing you, so it's a good thing that you did. It's okay. It's okay. Now, as to the measure and whether they were like this or were like that, whether they were too strict or not, they were not strict enough for you. What's the effect? I'll tell you just like this so you don't have to go any further. The World Health Organization estimated that Serbia has managed to do its job very well, and since there has been no exponential growth, the epidemic has been under control since the beginning. I'm proud of this, we did it in that sense. Is everyone in Serbia more expert today than the epidemiologists and infectologists we've worked with and the professions we've been listening to? Yes, as is the best selector, such as the best finance minister, as he knows better than the president of the legitimate elected state, so somebody always knows something better. I think we've been listening to the profession, the most professional and professional people in this country, and I've said it many times and I've done a good job by the World Health Organization. I am particularly pleased that we have done so by the figures that say that we have the smallest mortality in this part of Europe, therefore, not in the region, but in this part of Europe, one of the smallest mortalitys in the world. We saw foreign political propaganda, and I said, "We've seen it so far," I mean in Serbian history. We have seen Dragan Gilas, who writes secretly to the EU and complains, sues Serbia, sues the president of the Republic as he welcomed Chinese experts who brought medical aid, so he assures in the official letter and that President Aleksandar Vukic welcomed Chinese experts who brought help. Such foreign political propaganda, such a courtship, we've never really seen before. I don't think those EU officials who received this letter have ever seen such a courtship either. And I think it's probably a shame for them too why people were invited to read such things at all from a man who is the president of a political party and founder of the Alliance for Serbia, as signed on that letter. Now do we have a controversial relationship with China? Well, I wouldn't agree. I think we performed as partners and friends and thanked you for the great help and support they gave to the Republic of Serbia and to all our citizens and we said thank you. I wouldn't say it's a courtship, I wouldn't say it's a courtship relationship to China. I think they deserve more because they were the first to give huge, truly invaluable help at that moment, to help both respirators, and protective equipment, and tests, and to donate even two of the most modern laboratories and medical experts. Does this mean that we are reducing everything the EU has given so far? Absolutely not. I don't know why you're mixing these two things. You've been talking about EU donations in the last five years and we've received all these donations with pleasure, thanked you and our trip is a European trip, but we haven't talked about donations in the last five, ten, twenty years or what's going to be behind this. We thanked you for the support we received during the fight against the coronary virus. On these donations we thanked them earlier and thanked them endlessly. As I welcomed the plane, a cargo plane with the support of the EU. I've had two events with Ambassador Sam Fabrizia to thank you for all the 15 flights they've paid for. So, it seems to me that we all thanked each other for the credit, all this rest, there was time for that. After all, we haven't been in power for ten years, so those who were before could thank you if you didn't think they'd thanked enough. I don't know, it's on them, you can discuss here, your colleagues are. Again, Serbia has done a good job. Everyone's a general after the battle. We all have the right to think that we are more professional in every area than the experts who have advised us. Personally, I think it's a good thing we listened to the profession, not the quasi-struct and anyone who thought he knew better than that profession. Don't join those because I really don't think you're hypocrites or politicians. Don't, because you're afraid of Twitter attacks and tycoon media attacks, don't join those who consider this virus an ally just so they can attack Alexander Vukic for any reason. I don't think that's right, and I don't think you're just that kind of guy and generally, so don't lie, talk every day, he didn't talk. Some other world leaders are, and that's totally fine. Do I think he should have spoken every day? Well, I think he's found the right measure and he's been talking every day about what would be bad and in that. But people said, we want to listen to the profession, so you listened to the profession, and then you said why we don't listen to politicians. So we don't play these games in circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73734	You have no right to a replica. You have no basis for replication, we have another 28 MPs. I have to listen and spread the MPs, not just the same ones. There are MPs waiting two days to turn around. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73735	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Minister, Prime Minister, when you're dealing with the economy, then learn one thing, when the crisis comes, you have to be effective and effective, so I'm going to try to discuss today what's going on in 20 minutes in the budget debate expensive in three minutes, because hard time and hard time means we're doing it quickly and clearly. Serbia is entering ten countries in the world at the level of isolation, practically speaking in the thesis. You listed them yesterday, but you forgot to say that these are countries that have loose monetary policy, have the right to pull, finance from the primary emissions of their programmes, we finance from fiscal funding. Five point one billion, 50% of the budget or 10.11% of GDP is the pure income this generation has made since 2014. We have no consequences, the IMF says for the measures we bring, there will be no consequences. We don't have an inflation of expectations, we're going to have a small decline in social gross product, we're going to have a seven percent growth, almost the biggest after the crown. Alexander Vukic, 2014 is the anchor of these measures. If it hadn't been for that, in 2014, if there'd been a crisis in 2014, in 2012, in 2000, we wouldn't have had any gloves, we'd be looking for money, we'd be borrowing, we wouldn't have survived this crisis. Alexander Vukic, you say fiscal reform, I say change in the economic system. Aleksandar Vucic, SNS, the Assembly has changed the economic order in Serbia since 2014 and has changed society. We were right when we warned you about the budget debates, that there would be an economic crisis and that it would not be challenged from Serbia. The economic crisis has come to an end, and it's not due to the Coronal virus. We all knew who we were seriously dealing with macroeconomicly that we would have an economic crisis. In 2019, Germany ended with -02.00 per quarter economic growth, Italy was in technical recession, America had a growth in social gross product and a level of unemployment that grew due to deficits. Kristina Lagard, says 2018 - The crisis is there, can occur every day. This is a house without a roof, it's nice weather, but the clouds are here, it's falling, there's gonna be a storm, and everyone's gonna get hit. Countries that have a large territorial sector, which are much closer to financial markets, will be hit much more. Countries with a real economy, such as Serbia, will be affected less. Serbia's government is as rare as when in history it has welcomed this crisis because we have had measures and deficits that do not exist for four years. Public debt rate 48%, average debt in Europe 80%. Some countries, 110%, 120%. That's our trunk. When they say you'll have a deficit, we'll have one. So says the classical economic theory – when it's a happy time you earn and prepare for a crisis, when it's a crisis, you're in debt. We're lucky we have 40% of the room to borrow and President Vukic is right when he says, we're going to... 60%, but 80% should not be avoided because European countries will grow faster. We don't know what's waiting for us. The government measures are the measures for today when we sit at home. They're forgetting the first measures we've taken. When we get out of the house, when we see how the economy breathes, when we see what the global economy looks like, who knows what's waiting for us, new measures will come, fiscal and monetary. There will also be changes to the system laws. I hope they don't, but they might come because the world after this crisis probably won't be the same. When they say there will be no globalism. Well, these gloves, China's here for globalism. If it wasn't for globalism, we wouldn't have these masks. Globalism will survive, because it's a normal thing. Today it is in change, today it is not in balance, but the balance will be established in five, 10 years. What players? What kind of power layout? Who's gonna be in this situation to dominate? That's another thing. What are the rules? Probably changed a little bit. All major changes occurred by starting social or health, ending economically and eventually leading to a change in power. The Serbian government is in principle discussing three things I would like to mention. The first thing - the wages we paid for a minimum of three months. I've been five minutes, I'll hurry. When did Serbia do that? When did Serbia do that? They say we don't have to pay 100 euros. Well, we should pay. Well, look, we're against the quasi economists who tell us -- you don't need to increase pensions, you don't need to raise salaries, you don't need to give single help to pensioners, you don't need to give 100 euros to citizens. Well, people hate Serbia. Whenever we want to do something for the Serbian people, for Serbia, to tell them – thank you for being with us, for fighting, which is what we make of this country a different state, they say – don't. Well, it's not 2008 when everything they had was given to the tycoons they worked for. Another measure, no one mentions it, and it's corporate bonds. To say that I understand that it is an easier procedure, a cheaper procedure, but the Prime Minister, my advice is, you are probably in that position, a mechanism for keeping jobs, when companies that are currently in trouble because of the global lack of global demand, are in trouble, it is a mechanism for the Serbian Government to buy non-proliferation companies and provide jobs. It is a mechanism that the Serbian government can finance good Serbian programmes. One more thing, we in this congregation have this privilege of sometimes opening up difficult subjects and opening them up. When no one said there was going to be an economic crisis, I was saying, you were following, you were talking. No one's talking about inflation today either. Watch out, nobody talks about inflation in the world frameworks, inflation in Europe. In Serbia, it won't be, we have fantastic macroeconomic indicators, but inflation is just one thing that we lack for a complete economic storm. We are not talking about 20% inflation, 30%, inflation in the EU is 1.6, if it is at 3.5 things change dangerously, the government of Serbia, Jorvanka Tabakovic, you, of course, should come up with the Prime Minister and be prepared at that time to react. I said I'd talk for three minutes, apologize to my other colleagues, seven minutes. But, ladies and gentlemen, when the weather comes this hard, the first thing that matters is health, the economic crisis comes, passes, damages us, but health is the most important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, when you have a strong state, when you have a strong president of the state who heads the country, when you have a government headed by a prime minister who's following and leading the country, then an economic crisis, and a health crisis isn't easier, but we can survive it more easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73736	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73737	Thank you, President. All of us, the pandemic, of course, heard this today and yesterday, cannot be predicted, everything that will happen in the pandemic cannot be predicted, but every country, as recommended by the World Health Organization, must pass laws concerning infectious diseases and various pandemics. In 2016, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. In Article 9, this Law defines the creation of a programme to prevent infectious diseases, and Article 14 defines measures to protect the population from infectious diseases and how they are implemented. I wonder if the Ministry of Health has formed commissions and if these commissions have developed this programme and have developed measures to protect the population from any infectious diseases, or pandemics. The Minister of Health under that law is the one who runs the whole story and is given the exclusive right to take care of it. Today, the health minister is constantly asking the profession, I simply know that epidemiologists and the profession in charge of these diseases should decide, but I still think that all the story of today's pandemic COVID – 19 in the Republic of Serbia should have been perhaps a more visible health minister. I ask myself, have we done in these ways and in this programme, and have we educated the population in how they should behave in the pandemic, how medical workers should behave, not only in their jobs, but in their environment, because they still have much more knowledge about what this disease is doing? The second law to be mentioned is the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters in the management of emergency situations, and the Law was adopted in 2018 and provides for a re-design of a disaster risk reduction strategy and emergency management strategy, and Article 12 provides for an assessment of the risk of disaster. Do we have all this done? I'm not from the medical profession, but I'm interested in whether the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Health, the Government, in some way, the Commission, formed it all and did we have it done? I also ask the question – were these documents available to our population to educate those who are already interested in it in some way? So in today's discussions, we see that when the pandemics appeared, when we found out what it brings, how countries in the region or countries in the world, in our environment, first and first Italy, reacts, what happens, in our population it prevailed in the first moments of fear because we didn't know how to behave and what awaits us. I said at first we don't know what we're up to, but maybe it was supposed to be working on that population education earlier. I ask the Minister of Health – how does he plan to solve this problem? Because I think there might be some lawsuits and people's dissatisfactions, 400,000 people came, to say, from the world, at the borders, when they were coming in, at that moment when there was an emergency, they didn't get instructions about how they should behave, they even came home, so they found out after three days that they needed to be in isolation and so on. So why aren't they immediately at the border taking these measures and it's not told people what they should do when they get home and where they should be and how long, etc.? We talked very little about budget rebalancing today because we're in this pandemic situation, and in some ways we all want to get rid of it as soon as possible, and hopefully it will be soon, but somehow in our subconscious, we all know it's going to take a long time. We didn't talk about that side of the rebalancing. I'll look back on the budget rebalancing that's being brought to the AP Vojvodina, which is being reduced. The biggest loser in the 2020 budget was the AP Vojvodina, because we know that the AP Vojvodina budget was almost half the Belgrade budget. Today we're talking about the AP Vojvodina budget of this rebalance from 77.8 billion dinars will be reduced to 73.6 billion dinars. This means that the AP Vojvodina will receive not only less funds, but cannot count on the transfer funds it needs over time. Local self-governments cannot count on their resources to spend on agricultural land, on culture, etc. We are all aware that, simply, now we cannot talk about some spheres of life that concern sports, culture, etc., that it is most important that part of the population that is poor, which is sick, etc., to help it, but I don't think that all of this should have been broken in some way in Vojvodina, and in particular I think that in all of this, part of the population that the whole country is dependent on, and that's agriculture, that in the AP Vojvodina's greatest blow will be felt by farmers who are anyway, to say, in some way, all of these killed in terms. First of all, they couldn't put a certain amount of money into garbage in this plant. It's a big drought right now. A lot of orchards are frozen because we know what time it was two weeks ago, so we certainly won't expect that kind of gender that could help our population in some way in the fall. The fact that agriculture and farmers are being cut off, I think it's very wrong because we're going to see in the fall that in some way we're going to depend on that agriculture. We see that America has been saying these days that there isn't enough meat. I think our people will see more and more in the fall that we should have helped agriculture more and more, because in agriculture it doesn't take as much to invest as in some other branches that might start after this pandemic from some zero. Agriculture needed more help, because, I say, we're going to have a big problem one more time. The province also reduces the amount, which is the planned funding for a 288m dinar policy. We know what that means, we know how many people move out, our families are small, how many old people we have, so I think this measure is very wrong. The mother's allowance will continue to be 15,000 dinars, but the amount is reduced again to families that are meant to improve housing conditions for families with three or four children, from 300 million to 100 million dinars, so the 100 euros the government will give to residents, I don't think it will help at all, that all those funds... I don't know where they're going to get that 100 euros for every resident. It is better not to reduce the budget and not to reduce the funds to agriculture and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73738	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73739	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, dear Minister, dear fellow MPs, this is not a session like the others. I feel like I'm in the movie "Day After". Same place, same people, but we're not the same. Some of us lost dear people, some of us friends or relatives got sick, but what's for sure, we were all afraid of the unknown enemy and worried about the ones we love. There are many countries in the world that have not immediately taken the gravity of the situation and could be resented by their governments, in slow reaction. Have you read or heard the opposition from these countries to exploit this emergency situation and to do nothing but promote, to muddle the government in that country? The answer is no. Serbia is not the only one who is unthinkable of power. I'm not deliberately telling the opposition, because that means some idea, some plan, some program. There's no such thing as insolence, criticism, ridicule and assault on everyone and everyone. This, of course, does not apply to all the opposition, but to those loud individuals who have commented whether someone is too sophisticated or too little in this situation when saving people's lives, and that measuring me as a woman is extremely disturbing, whether someone is professional or not, whether someone is more or less pictured, and not saying that the press conference is just every day and that the data is presented daily to the smallest details. Do you know what it's like to have your kid get sick? Your arms and legs are cut off and you're not working. Only extremely strong people continue without saving themselves. That's the case with our president. His son's illness was the target of ridicule, but, thank God, he's strong and young and he's been through the virus. To ask ourselves, Serbian citizens, who are these people who have given themselves the right to know better than doctors, experts, when it is known that a specialist doctor has been educated for ten and more years to be expert in an area. There are very wonderful, high-quality journalists who have gained a reputation during the years of work, who do their job with honor and honesty, but who are honestly much less likely to muddle the profession because of their own hatred for SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. That insolence and conceit is amazing. These journalists or, I'd say, nadrinovers, quasinators with no qualifications, because they've only finished primary and secondary education, they're smirking at our top experts. Those who are far ahead of the profession have neither worked nor labor nor the brain, because in this situation it is not done at all. We need a style, not a confusion. The state of emergency, as the word itself says, is something unusual, specific, to which it is approached in difficult situations. Citizens of Serbia, we must be aware that we are very fortunate to have President Aleksandar Vukic at the head of this country. He could be said to be a workaholic, but he doesn't just like to work, he knows how to work. He makes us become winners of the losers and has raised Serbia's reputation that many now look up to us for many things. He knows how to make friends and to be valued by great and powerful statesmen. To be clear, that's what anyone would want to be, a friend of the successful and powerful in the world, but they can't. Only honest, quality, charismatic people can do that. Do you think this size of equipment, machines, entire labs can get anyone if they have money? He can't. Some things get a friendship and a reputation. It is a shame to say anything to the president of Serbia, Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia except – all honour and thank you, but many envious cannot break through their poisonous tongues. I'm proud of you, Prime Minister, and of our ministers, our crisis staff, experts, doctors, medical staff, educators, who were very quick and quality organized and conducted teaching at a distance, police and military level, which made us feel safe and safe all this time. In co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the finance ministry has prepared an excellent economic programme to help businesses, so all this time of emergency we haven't felt food shortages or drugs. I am proud, too, of our citizens who have respected all the government's measures and trusted her. I am proud of our President Alexander Vukic, because we have felt safe from day one in what is being done and knew that this is as possible at that moment and best for the citizens of Serbia. We learned a lot from this situation and when it comes to this global epidemic, it's that we have to rely as much on our own strength as possible and never forget who our friends were when it's hard for us. In the end, I have one proposal for all of them, and especially for my colleague Radulovic, who thinks they are immune and don't need protection from the virus, that masks and gloves are meaningless, that they must report to volunteer without protective equipment, because they say they don't need to go to the Coronal virus sufferers, to find themselves in their hands, to help them. Thus, they will also test their immunity and immunity to their loved ones and may be useful as guinea pigs in the ministry of science. I also appeal to discipline that citizens do not buy false information from Obradovic's mouth, Gilas, Radulovic. Trust in the president of Serbia, the Serbian government, these people who run this country, because they have shown works that they know it and that they are successful at it. I thank you for your attention and wish everyone good health, as well as your families. Vojislav Seselj: I listened very carefully. I listen to you very carefully, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73740	Thank you very much. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73741	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, the distinguished prime minister, respected ministers, people on the entire pattern of this planet are obsessed with fighting a viral infection caused by the Corona virus which, appearing a few months ago, really scared the professional public and announced cataclysm, since we didn't know much about it and we didn't know how it would behave. We knew that it was exceptional virulence, that it was highly pathogenic, but we didn't know if it would mutate and whether it could lead humanity to cataclysm. Fortunately for us, nature has done one part of the job and the pathogen of this virus is limited, and on the other hand, responsible governments and responsible rulers have been able to do much and to protect their population, above all, the old population. I'm going to start by saying that this government with one energetic and determined struggle and the measures it has really protected its population, and that best shows that mortality or aviation from the virus is 1.9%, which, once again, is said many times, but we will repeat, one of the lowest rates in the environment, and even from what we have so far known, because it is estimated that 3% of the smallest limit has been so far, and we see that in some countries it even exceeds this figure. A good organisation of health services, the formation of Kovid Hospitals and Kovid Hospitals, quick tests, then the purchase of equipment, and, above all, by social distance, we came to this result. I have to thank the Prime Minister here for allowing and initiating the establishment of a temporary Kovid hospital in Novi Pazar and thus really respecting our cultural and religious specialities and thus encouraging the people of Sandzak and that of Serbia to be treated, because we were in great danger that a large number of infected people were hiding from us and practically avoiding coming to Belgrade because it was some unknown to them. They had problems with religious rituals, eating, etc. Once again, I thank you for getting this hospital after the four major centers, which is a big deal. The city headquarters, headed by the mayor of Novi Pazar, has really done a lot to promote and introduce people to the danger of this virus, which, once again, is really big and we've managed to stabilize the situation. Today in Novi Pazar, the situation is very stable, it is similar in Sjenica, Tutin, so I can say in Raška. We have, for example, one patient yesterday who was positive of 65, I think, as far as it was studied. However, I am very concerned and extremely irresponsible by irresponsible politicians who often say, we hear, above all, opposition politicians, that the Corona virus is not dangerous and that, above all, what I hear is that they say and stress that mortality in the countries that are at the heart of Corona and in other countries is practically nothing greater or equal to that which is during the epidemic. Well, that's not true, gentlemen. The Italians did statistics a few days ago and I will show it to you, it is available on the Internet, in which they compared the mortality that existed in the countries of the hotspots in Europe, primarily Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, France and Sweden, and to Switzerland, where they compared mortality from 2015 to 2019 in March and April, and compared it with the percentage of mortality in March and April 2020. Total mortality is 38% higher globally, and in some countries, such as Spain, as much as 70% of people died than they normally do in these two months. Gentlemen, if it's 38%, it's in your absolute number of 322,720 people more died and it's certain proof that this virus is extremely airy to certain groups of people. We are, and we liked it yesterday, the nation, we are, I say, all Balkan peoples have one high respect for their elders and in this way we have really shown special concern for them. It is not correct that such an infection is misused for political action. There, you see, one Tadic says and criticises the integrity and expertise of the people of the Crisis Headquarters. I'll remind you that the same people who committed his crisis staff. It's at least incorrect. But irresponsible politicians say something else, and it's to me, as someone who comes from the profession, extremely bad to hear, extremely negative, that we are the only country that has introduced curfew and strict measures, which is not true. Yesterday I came up with information that is absolutely certain that in the UK in the last six weeks only one hour is allowed for people to go shopping, and in shopping they can buy a number of items, two breads, two liters of milk, etc. Not to mention medical equipment, they dream of medical equipment as many as we have. They count for one glove or mask, which is proof that this government with this team, listening to the profession, has really done a lot and saved this people from a really dangerous disease like this infection. In France, the prime minister announced because of the seriousness of the situation and announced that he would propose to parliament to vote on a law extending the measures in this area until July 23rd. Now I read on the Internet new information, where the Germans practically announce that they could tighten the measures from which they came out mildly because their viral reproduction rate rose from 0.7% to 1%. That's what we call in medicine number R, or how much one person can infect others. They're scared. They're scared. This isn't the end of fighting this virus, gentlemen. Understand, listen to people of profession and integrity, such as one Kon and such as other of our epidemiologists and infectologists. This is no place for politics, and please don't let yourself be abused. There's no room for protests, there's no room for this moment when we're still hunting and we don't know what's coming. Maybe there's a new dot coming up. A little patience is necessary. Think of the medics on impact. Think of those young workers. I commend the minister who hired the youngest workers, just finished medics, specialists, and I ask him, at this time, to reward these people after the end of this infection, because they were worthy of this defender to fight this vicious disease and to allow them faster education, specialization, etc. I want to end up in difficult moments of humanity, like this, they're a fertile humus for both good and bad people. There were good people, especially in my area, and almost every day you will hear on the news that in Novi Pazar and its surroundings a huge number of young people who help donate not only to Muslims, and not only to New Pazar and Sandzak, but to the entire municipality, above all to the Royal region. No, the amount of aid package that these young people, self-organized, donated was counted, and to say that the city itself has given over 10,000 aid packages to others. This is indeed a bright spot, an example of great altruism and, let me say, the solidarity that people in my area have made towards love, towards their country and its inhabitants and the health of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73742	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there may be a general consensus and all parliamentary groups agree on the need to introduce a state of emergency, and what we have heard several times is the way it was done in Serbia. Therefore, constitutional procedures for introducing an emergency were not respected, not because it would be a problem with providing the majority of votes, or MPs for one such decision, not because it was a problem to hold a session, but rather because it shows us something else, which is a certain non-democratic consciousness, which has repeatedly shown that if someone wins that and that number of votes in the elections, or that and that number of MPs, legal norms are not important to him. If there is support, i.e. the number of MPs sufficient to make any decision, it is thought that it would definitely be made, and then no formal procedure is necessary to respect it. It was not a problem for some MPs to convince themselves of this need. Here you just press the bell, the ruling majority just press the key and any decision can be made. There are MPs here who can make a decision to replace the night and the day, namely to declare the day for the night, not to introduce an emergency. So it's a misunderstanding of what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is. Citizens in the elections give confidence to certain parties that they exercise power, but within the Constitution of a regulated order, not that they exercise power without being able to do whatever they want. The question arises – if we ourselves do not respect our Constitution, how can we expect anyone to respect this same Constitution, especially when the issue of our territorial integrity, or should it continue to be so, the priority of each government is the question of KIM. We heard here yesterday some other notions that, for example, The European Convention on Human Rights applies only to pro-Western politicians. Those who advocate the EU, they have a monopoly to call on such a convention, and for all others it is forbidden, as if the European Convention on Human Rights is not older than the EU, is not one civilizational fluid created after World War II and has no connection with the EU, but well, there may be some less important things, it is not important. First, there is a closed parliament in Serbia, and only then is there market centres, gyms, bookshops, cafes, restaurants, and at the same time, not only in our environment, but in the entire democratic world there were conditions for holding a session of parliament. Therefore, a certain disturbance in the injury of the authorities was done this way that parliament was suspended, and the state of emergency introduced by the arbitration decision of the executive authority. At the beginning of the crisis over the coronary virus, or pandemic, we heard a lot of confusing, contradictory statements that in some ways caused panic. We've heard about the virus from the Internet. We've heard about travel to the hotspots of the virus in Europe. What may be the biggest nebulose and came from a health minister who said that if needed, Serbia would make a vaccine against the crown. At a time when no one in the world knows what this virus is, we say – if necessary, we will make a vaccine. It's about warming up the stove, and now there's going to be a vaccine. So it's the health minister in Serbia and his approach to the whole problem. Maybe he doesn't need that vaccine, no need. The other thing that was an extremely big scandal in all of this is an unprecedented and unfounded aversion towards all Serbs living and working abroad. They are also citizens of Serbia. Serbia is their Serbia according to the Constitution, because Serbia is the state of the Serbian people, and we have placed ourselves against them as if they bring us the plague here, although at the same time these people went there with their belly after bread, the largest majority, 90% of them. They are sending credits to Serbia, which is the only real money compared to borrowing and sale, as in the other way they fill Serbia's budget, and the executive authority is setting up against them as if they were undesirable here. At the same time, while the coronary pandemic of the virus is going on around the world, we have free flow of migrants through Serbia, no one knows how many have entered, no one knows what countries they have gone through, and some of those countries that they have been going through already have a coronary virus, such as the situation with some Asian countries or Mediterranean. There was no testing for them, no quarantine for them. No one knew how many migrants there are in Serbia, and at the same time, Serbs from abroad are given a message that they are not very welcome in Serbia. Is that wrong? Are Serbian citizens more important than migrants who are illegally entering our country? We've also seen that there's no record at all of the crimes they've committed over the past few years. We have seen that more than 200 appeared in 2019, but the fact is that the whole situation with the migrant crisis is causing a huge panic among Serbian citizens and that it is not without a basis, but that it is happening, which is because of the government's irresponsible approach. There's, of course, some more data we could get during this pandemic, and we didn't know before that. We heard, the economic measures taken on this, that they were famous before the government adopted them, and they predict a rain of money. So, rain steam, economic measures for Serbia. We already know that we will be first, or among the first three in growth, as if we can assume how much any country in Europe will grow, or how much economic growth it will have, as if now it were some orientation of what the IMF said. The International Monetary Fund gives all the projections it provides to make it easier for these countries to be in debt if they are told that their economic growth will be so much and so much. We don't have to take that as something that's serious at all. The Serbian Radical Party warned that this situation, i.e. the policy of granting subsidies to foreign investors, will eventually lead Serbia into a situation where the lobby of foreign investors has great blackmailing potential before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if these subsidies stop, unless the subsidy programmes are renewed and we now have a situation that must be paid off to all those foreign investors who have already received 10, 15, we have seen even more than 70,000 euros of subsidies per job somewhere, now the government of the Republic of Serbia has to pay them the minimum wage from the budget. It's like we haven't given them enough already. There's no record of how many people they fired. Can anyone who received 15,000 euros per job from the Serbian state fire workers? Since, in fact, by subsidising in this way, the government of Serbia pays all these workers, and foreign investors are at risk of zero. And now we have to pay them minimum wages! Or, if we don't do it, they've gathered themselves together and gone to their homelands. What do they care about our economy? So that's the situation you brought yourself into. Paying 100 euros each of Serbia's full-year citizens. A situation, i.e. a policy that lacks sufficient social responsibility. Instead of helping those who are the most vulnerable, instead of helping those who are single parents or who are hard to live or who have the smallest incomes, we give everyone the same and we call on the American model. And what's different in the US and Serbian models is that Americans have put a limit -- they pay $1,200 to every adult citizen, but they don't pay those who have more than $75,000 a year. And here, whoever has a minimum wage, or 30,000 dinars and one who has a salary or five salaries, such as cases in Serbia, of 5,000 euros, can also take 100 euros. Is that responsible by the Serbian state? Unlike the United States, children are discriminated against because none of the amounts for minors are foreseen. Why is that? Also, top demagogy is the increasingly common position of officials - the refusal of 100 euros. As if these officials are now more important or better than other Serbian citizens who will accept the 100 euros in dinar equivalent. What does that mean? As if, if some official refuses 100 euros, another Serbian citizen will get more? He won't. He'll get 100 euros again. What does that mean? We have heard - it will be worth it to all the full citizens of Serbia and that this is the measure that needs to boost demand. There might be some logic in there. And then we heard -- it'll be worth it to everyone who wants to, because we saw the announcements of various tycoons that they didn't want 100 euros and that they were making fun of the subject. We have heard that it will be made mandatory for pensioners, for automation and social aid recipients, and if we already know that the state of Serbia pays public sector salaries, so to all those who are employed in the state administration, etc., why not pay them for this after automation? Is there something that the tycoons are bothering us with paying all the public sector people 100 euros? How much of this tycoon has to do in the public sector, so they keep us from paying them all 100 euros each? There's more than a million of them, as far as I can tell. So one under-thinking and not socially responsible measure, which makes no difference between citizens, and the differences are very large, in terms of receiving, from unemployed to those who have five salaries and astronomical salaries for Serbian conditions. But that wasn't so much to think about. We have now seen, without any masks and gloves, how we stand in relations with the European Union. We first received a ban on exports of medical and other equipment by the EU outside the EU, by being directly affected. We have seen that whenever the EU has a slightly larger crisis, it turns out that it is actually a paper tiger, which is not capable of anything, of any dysfunctional organisation, of a trom, which is unable to help any state. We saw, too, as during the floods, as well as during the fires, and during this pandemic of Coronavirus, who are our sincere and true allies and friends in international relations. We have seen that we can rely only on our allies, NR China and the Russian Federation. We have seen that the process of European integration has not played any part in what has been happening to us. The air bridge of humanitarian aid in Serbia was not making Erbas, but was making Ilushin, and it should tell us enough that it is time for the issue of European integration to be put to an ad act. We have seen in all these crises that peoples across Europe rely on this retrograde, this outdated, national state and its institutions, and not on these bureaucratic international organisations that do nothing. The European Union didn't want to help Italy. The European Commission rejected Italian Prime Minister Conte, who wanted to discuss Italy's assistance in the European Commission on 5 March. The European Commission rejected this because it had previously scheduled a lecture by Greta Tumberg on ecology and the environment, and Italy is the founder of the EU and the European Coal and Steel Community and the European Economic Community, etc. Then what do we have to expect and negotiate more with the EU in general on our membership? We need to learn lessons from this, which is that we need to take care of our country and our doctors and pharmacists and the soldiers and the members of the MUP, and not that we are unnecessarily fulfilling all the dictatorships from abroad because we saw that it was not enough for Serbia, that we did not benefit from it, and that in the end we had to rely on our own strengths and on our sincere friends when the problems came up in our country. After all this, I think that the continuation of European integration policy would represent pure masochism for Serbia and that after this we should consider our further foreign-political priorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73744	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73745	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to begin by thanking all the responsible and serious people in Serbia for what absolutely the greatest number of them have been, in a responsible way, implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's measures, in particular those that involved the restriction of freedom of movement and therefore helped, decisively help the health system to get into a situation so that we can fight this disease effectively. I also want to thank all the people who have been volunteers, all the people who work in local self-government, members of the police and the military who really helped the health system because they were a medical system, doctors and medical staff in the front row, we don't have to talk about it specifically, there's been a lot of talk about it. I also want to thank all these other people who have done their selfless work and risked their health to help Serbia today be one of the more effective countries that successfully copes with this severe disease. I've heard a lot of debates about different topics, and that is, of course, the work of the executive government, to listen to the opinion of the MPs, to hear what the National Assembly is saying, but I want to give you some information, because during the debate, but also in public, a lot of issues concerning migration, concerning some of our actions, the measures that the state institutions have brought, which the government has brought. As far as migration is concerned, we have a relatively stable flow of migration and has been in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for some 8,500 migrants for a long time. This, of course, is not a worrying number in terms of the Republic of Serbia having the capacity to deal with this challenge and all migrants are located in reception centres that are guarded by military members, along with the natural assistance of police officers. There is gratitude for both Minister Vulina and members of our army who have taken this part of the task from members of the Interior Ministry so that police can deal with other activities on the ground, from the organisation of volunteer services, check the measure of self-insulation and everything else you have seen these days, to find themselves at the service of Serbian citizens. No migrants have ever had, so none of them have ever suffered from the Coronus virus. They have disabled movement, so they are located in camps and because of their health and health of other Serbian citizens and, of course, in those areas, they are provided with all conditions for a decent and normal life with supervision and medical control, taking care of their health, of course. There were crimes committed by migrants. Absolutely correct. Not too much, taking the number of migrants that have passed through our country and in our country, the number of crimes they have committed is not so significant. Of course that doesn't mean that these crimes aren't being prosecuted. And those crimes were mainly committed between the migrants themselves. So, between those who came from Algeria and Morocco, those who came from Afghanistan or should I tell Syria and so on. So these are mostly their mutual accounts, which is, of course, as bad as anything else, but what I'm saying is that they didn't have that kind of crime done against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to a large extent. Of course, there is one thing that is too much, but that is why we are trying to make effective processing, exorcising from our country, reading and all the other measures, the ones that entered our country illegally, we are returning to the country where they came from and we are very successful in co-operation with, for example, Bulgaria, where a part of the migrants enter our country and, of course, with all other countries through which both IOM and other international organisations can organise a voluntary return and, of course, everything else. It is not possible everywhere, but of course we are trying to find solutions that are not easy because no country has successfully found the answer to solve this problem completely. There have been stories, not here today, but there have been speeches, stories of millions of migrants living in Serbia. It was quite a number and I want to say a few sentences, although you have a situation that in Serbia rarely anyone can see a migrant, objectively, you have a situation that they have talked about how in Serbia, there were these stories in public, settlements of entire villages, 400,000 already on the road, buses are on their way, at night you can see these settlements. So, total lies and nonsense, and we often invited people to go to part of Serbia to show us a house, not a village, one house, where some migrants like that settled down. On the other hand, Serbia has not recently, since it has been in a working arrangement, is saying an arrangement with Austria, which we have signed and that arrangement does not foresee anything new. We are the only way by law that you can get someone back into our country is under the 2007 Readmission Agreement, which is an international document, which has been ratified by the National Assembly. Under this agreement signed by the then government, the reading of third parties and citizens of our country is possible, of course, in our country from the Republic of Austria, and nothing has changed so far, if our country agrees in each individual case. So no one can blanco apriori and without the consent of the Republic of Serbia bring back no single man, and he was even a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. As far as working arrangements are concerned, they serve to more precisely define how you're going to do it. A citizen of the Republic of Serbia goes to Austria, there's no money to go back, Austria is driving him out of there for some reason, and then they say he's coming back? Who pays that trip, who makes sure he doesn't disappear somewhere along the way. It's a work arrangement. Under this working arrangement, from that day until today and in accordance with that working arrangement, no citizen, no third-country national, therefore no migrant, no refugee, zero has been returned. Each individual case requires explicit consent from the Republic of Serbia. That's what I was going to say, because it was a lot of public issues and people just know there's no fear of it, nor in Serbia will ever be any parking lot for migrants, nor will anyone here be building migrant camps on Serbia's territory. After all, we have often pointed out this in the EU, we migrants are coming from the EU, from Greece and from Bulgaria, which are EU member states. They are concerned, although we are now discussing in the EU whether or not they will do so, they are covered by the Dublin Agreement, those countries. Under the Dublin Agreement applicable to EU Member States, migrants are returning to the first EU country they entered. Of course, since this is truly impossible to implement in practice, this agreement is in practice not enforceable. That's why there's more problems. Of course, our country does not stand unemployed, we are taking a number of measures that allow this number to be stable, that in our country you do not have the accumulation of migrants and we are very successful, even in the time of Corona very successfully struggling with this problem and the citizens of Serbia do not feel it. The whole government is involved and thank you to all my colleagues who are actively working on these issues every day. As far as economic measures are concerned, the prime minister is there, she can say more concrete data regarding economic measures. As for equality in helping citizens of 100 euros, it is important that all Serbian citizens have the opportunity, which is what President Vukic's team has designed. So measures are designed to help businesses and help citizens. It is very important that these measures are such that they can boost consumption, and that is significant and important that we show equality, because we have not abolished any other social measure, nor reduced, even at a time when we had to take more unpopular economic measures, because the state did not have enough money thanks to the previous authorities. Minister Vulin was then minister of labour, martial arts and social affairs and can testify, the Republic of Serbia has not reduced a single dinar's spending on social categories. No single dinar. So it is never and will never be spared in Serbia. Such are the measures proposed by President Vukic with the economic team, therefore, to help the population in order to boost consumption and thus revive our economy and to encourage those economic activities that will guarantee faster growth for the Republic of Serbia. Of course it is always possible to discuss models that may be different in the future, perhaps better and more precisely dimensioned and designed, but this is in line with the state's capabilities, something we can do and satisfy most of Serbia's citizens. Of course, those people who don't want to take that money, that money will be allocated, or it won't be spent from the budget, and we'll have more money to build roads, build schools, buy medical equipment, appliances, everything that's needed for citizens of Serbia who can't afford something, and our country can help them with their actions. Once again, thank you as MPs for your work and during this period, because I know that the largest number of MPs, regardless of whether they were in their homes, did not sit withered hands and unemployed. Thank you to all those people who have helped with their responsibility to talk today about a situation that is significantly better than most other countries in the world. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73746	Thank you. The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73747	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the Prime Minister, I just spoke with the head of the cabinet of government. I want this assembly to be declared at this session, are the MPs older than 65 years of age discriminated or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73748	Ambassador, just get me a member of the Rules of Procedure so I can follow you?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73749	If they're being discriminated against, then I don't need to sit in this session anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73750	MP, it's a little degutant.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73751	I ask the President of the Assembly to put this proposal to the vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73752	MP, you've been here for two days, and you know there's no problem. If you've read at least some of the regulations we're talking about, you've found there that people employed with 65 plus can work, and this is business, of course, as anyone understands it, we take it as a job. Therefore, MP, be calm and sit down, continue to work and the MUP takes care of you, and nothing will happen to you. There's no need. We've all come to terms with that. I'm taking care of you personally. Don't worry about anything. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73753	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Brnabic, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know today is 45 days as a state of emergency and about two months as citizens and states, we are struggling with this disaster that has hit us. We from the SNS, as our head of the parliamentary group said, will strongly support all the proposals that have been put before us, as well as all the measures that the authorities, the state authorities in the first place, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Government, the headquarters crisis and all other state authorities have taken, in order to prevent the spread of the virus epidemic. What is most important to me and what needs to be pointed out, which is that the government in Serbia has listened and respected all the recommendations of the profession and prominence, and has responded urgently and brought all the timely measures and in this way we have prevented the disaster that has really threatened us, which unfortunately some countries have experienced. Fortunately, we have succeeded and it has repeatedly been pointed out here that Serbia is one of the countries with the smallest number, i.e. the lowest mortality rate in this part of Europe, but also all those measures, that is, all those other parameters that confirm that the measures that have been taken have produced results and that we have prevented disaster. That's the facts. As much as anyone doesn't like the fact, as much as someone doesn't like the fact, but the fact is that we introduced an emergency six days before the occurrence, or before the first death in Serbia. Some European countries have introduced a state of emergency much later. The fact is, we introduced nine days before the first death of a restraining order. Some countries and some EU countries have brought this measure much later, and many other measures and regulations that have contributed to our being able to say that we have fought successfully and are still fighting this monster. The fact is, we stopped the disaster. The fact is, as we have heard several times, we have prevented the exponential growth of the number of patients in Serbia. The fact is we've prevented the collapse, the collapse, the collapse of the entire health system. We know that some countries have unfortunately experienced this. The fact is, and that is what is most important, we have preserved a huge number of lives in Serbia. Not to mention, we've been keeping it steady and stable the entire time of our emergency, let's say, stable supply and pharmacy and shops, a market for basic life supplies. Not to mention that as Government, as responsible government, we have also brought a whole series of economic measures aimed at addressing the consequences of this crisis that we are in order to help the recovery of the economy, as well as the citizens of Serbia. While on the one hand the state and the state authorities are doing everything, absolutely everything they can to combat the virus epidemic, so when we put all our resources, all the state's capacities in function of defense against this accident, all the human resources, all the human resources, all the logistics, every dinar we have as a state, what do we have on the other hand? What's that coming from the other side? Continued foreigning, politics and an unmistakable campaign against the president of the Republic, the government of Serbia, state officials of the SNS, but unfortunately also against health workers and members of the medical profession. We have a daily homeless campaign on, to say, televisions, or media that belong to it or are under the control of Dragan Gilas and this Alliance for Serbia, so "N1", "New", "TV Shabac", "Today", "Time", "Nin", "Nin", "Nedelnik", and then various portals "Direct", "Istinomer", "Recreation", and then various "Cricks", "Cins", "Birnovs", and who knows who else, all others who are in an uninterrupted campaign that lasts 24 hours a day for seven days a week, and for the purpose is exclusively an attack on Alexander Vukic by all means, at all costs and at every place and every day. That's what comes from the other side. To what extent this goes the best way is by spending all the time in the state of emergency, be careful, for time, every day of emergency, the entire fortune has been spent on so-called. paid ads, i.e. paid publications on social networks on their portals. So that's hundreds and hundreds of paid so-called. sponsored posts that aren't cheap at all. Since we know that people who do business, or people who know how advertising works on portals and social networks, they know that it's quite expensive, and it's hundreds and hundreds of announcements for all these days of emergency. I've got a few dozen in front of me. Here's what it looks like, here's one of those posts -- Dragan Gilas, sponsored, I don't know if this camera can zoom in, to see Serbia's citizens, Dragan Gilas, then sponsored. So, when this is an aggressive campaign, it costs a few dozen euros per post, and hundreds are at stake. It's serious money, it's serious thousands, even tens of thousands of euros spent only on the defilement of Alexander Vukic and state officials, only doing it, they've done nothing else for the past 45 days, to the soul, they've done it before, but now they're the most aggressive. Dragan Gilas says: "Stop closing six million people. Serbia does not deserve to be the largest dungeon in Europe for four days because of crazy decisions in power," and still sponsors it. They'd better have donated some protective equipment for that money. Why didn't they buy some masks? Why aren't they some gloves? They could buy a respirator for that money. Well, then "Directly" is that site of Dragan Gilas, which is sponsored, says: "The wolf is more and more like North Korea through the eight-balls test in a 14-year-old campaign." Well, then he says "Directly", his portal, says, "Anna Brnabić has finally publicly admitted," I apologize, please, "that she is stupid and limited", quotes what it says here, and they paid for it, paid for this campaign. He says, "Condom campaign," I apologize to both the citizens and you "condom campaign", says Srdjan Skoro, the smart Srdjan Skoro. Well, says "New" it's the school's television, but it also has its own portal, so it sponsors the posts, they now broadcast a statement from a Croatian journalist. Behold now what is good news for them, and beware of what they do. The Croatian journalist says, "I would go crazy to listen to Vukic every day." And that's news for "New" to publish and sponsor that announcement. Gilas Dragan says on his "directly.rs", he says: "Wolf, you are really not normal. “ Of course, he paid for that big announcement. So then he says, "Directly", a sponsored announcement, a letter to the crisis staff, and now they attack healthcare workers, attack Kona, attack Kona, attack Nestorovic, Darija Kisic, etc. He says: “You work for political marketing. ” Well, then "Directly" again says, "Bagree on the loose," that's Joana for being arrested and raising her entire bulument over it. Well, then BIRN sponsors his publication and says, "Misa Vacic's associate disinfects Belgrade." Now, look, they don't mind who got the job of disinfecting Belgrade. They don't care if he's been disinfected or not, they don't care who got the job. Well, then "directly.rs" says: "The unbearable ease of lying, the characteristic of this pigry was brutal lies." Well, then, Dragan Gilas again says on "Directly": "Bots of Serbian Progressive Parties continue to brilliant." Well, then "directly.rs" sponsors the announcement and says, "Five helmets with aid packages that arrived in Nis yesterday, SNS officials are a donation of President Alexander Vukic". Of course, it's a lie, but what do they know? Or what they want to know whether it's true or not. They don't care what one of our colleagues says. Well, then that smart-ass Nikola Jovanovic from the People's Party, those Jeremic parties, and then they sponsor that announcement. I'm sure they had a smarter way of spending money. He says: “Government was once again disproved. ” Well, then the famous KRIK, well, then "directly.rs" says: "The way from a joke through disaster to a great victory." It's a joke to them. People die, people get sick. People die, and this is a joke to them. Well, then "Discovering" says Serbia has fallen three places. It's news to them. Did Serbia fall on some lame portal there for some three places. Well, then "Cenzolovka" again, she says, too, says, "Serbia has fallen for three more places on the annual list." Listen, border-free reporters. Who cares what reporters say without borders? Well, then Tihomir Stanic, unfortunately, I love him as an actor, I really love him, and it's sad that he started to deal with politics, he says, "The Koron will also disappear." Of course, “directly” paid for this publication, etc., etc. This is me, I don't have any more time, and I apologize to my colleagues for overstepping my time. So, just a few more... He says, Ivanovic attacks Acu Lukasa, "New" of course sponsors it. "Autonomy", Dinko Gruhonjic, do you know who Dinko Gruhonjic is? Well, he also found it appropriate to say, "The hole on the European bottom." (Marco Atlagic: A traitorous bastard! You're right, colleague Atlagic. The "directly.rs" sponsors the weekend columnist Boška Obradovica. It says: “It is time for the resurrection of national ideas. ” Just don't stand for national ideas. The "directly.rs" sponsors an announcement saying the MEPs are shocked by Vukic. Did he mean that Tanya Fajon, I don't know who he meant, but they gave big money to sponsor this announcement. Well, Nova.rs says, "Europe will no longer look through Serbia's fingers." Well, Dragan Gilas, then he sponsors his direct address of course, and then the disclosure is about some bots again, SNS warrants. Well, then "Nova.rs" says, "Time for the exchange of Djordjevic", the minister, thinks of him, "Minister for Parastos and Congratulations". Well, the Freedom and Justice Party, I guess, is Gilas's party, it sponsors Marinika Tepic, who addresses live via Facebook, but they sponsor it. Well, "Nova.rs" sponsors an announcement that says, "Breaked Health". Well, "directly.rs" sponsors the re-publishment of Jovana Popovic, she says, "a symbol of courage". Well, then it sponsors the "directly.rs" statement by Sreto Malinovic, well, "Nova.rs" and so on. It's hundreds and hundreds of posts. I put this all out to you to see what they were up to, they were only dealing with daily politics, foreigning, politics, attacks on Alexander Vukic. So, both at press conferences and in pointless announcements that were given every day on social networks and money they invested and spent on it. Apparently, they've seen this state of emergency as an opportunity to score some cheap political points, because they don't know. Fortunately, Serbian citizens are well aware and have had the opportunity to see who is fighting, sacrificed and dedicated all the time fighting this monster for their interests, and who has partyed and tried to score cheap political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73754	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73755	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the honourable prime minister, respected ministers, fellow Members and MPs, we are talking about a very important topic today. About the subject that hit the whole world. That topic is actually a disease. More than three million people worldwide have been infected with the Kovid-19 virus. That virus hasn't missed our country, unfortunately. Thanks to the responsible President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, thanks to the prime minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic, thanks to the complete government, thanks to the citizens of Serbia, a plan has been drawn up in a timely and adequate manner, an analysis of the situation has been made, certain measures and activities that the state is responsible for its citizens, and this country shows all these years that it is responsible and that in the focus of its interest it is the protection and best interest of each citizen of Serbia, it has set out its activities and priorities in order to naturally result from this deadly outcome as little as possible, so that the health system is fully prepared to ensure that citizens are protected in the best possible way. The issue of public health, the issue of protection of the public health of the nation, the issue of a nation of every kind of infection, is a national issue, and all the measures taken by the Government, taken by the President of the Republic, are in the interest of protecting health and life. Life ahead of everything. The life of every man, the preservation of every citizen, is in the focus of SNS policy, of the policy that Alexander Vukic conducted, life above all. In the fight with this severe illness, what I must also praise, which is that the President of the Republic, that the Government, you, Madam Prime Minister with the complete ministry, recognized in fact that only in partnership, with those who know best what an epidemic is, and what is the protection of human health, at the time of the epidemic, or pandemic, can you in an effective way help the citizens of Serbia. That's what you just did, forming two crisis headquarters. One crisis staff related to health monitoring and another headquarters that applied to economic measures. I must say, to commend, in fact, and all the congratulations on putting the health of the nation in the focus of your measures and protecting the health of the nation from the pandemic, which has disastrous consequences in much richer countries of the world, in the United States, in the rich economies of the EU, in countries such as Italy, such as Spain, such as Great Britain. A huge number of deaths in these countries, terrible scenes, the inability for people to bury their loved ones, the great death of people. Analyzing all this situation, you have just timely and adequately brought all these measures to warn the situation. That's what you did. I congratulate you on that! Serbia has the smallest number of deaths in this part of Europe. And that's what to say. That doesn't have to be covered up. The health system has effectively done its job, but of course, both the president of the state and government of all these previous years and how they have worked hard to make the health system both infrastructure and human resources stronger, strong and ready for epidemics, pandemics etc. What I would also like to point out is that thanks to Alexander Vukic and his huge friendship with the president of the People's Republic of China, Si Jinping, a large amount of, or a large amount of respirator was provided, a large amount of hospital protective equipment in a situation where even richer EU countries could not come up without asking for a price. It's because of Alexander Vukic, it's his credit to the health system and it's due to the health of the nation. That's what citizens know. And those miscreants who left behind factories in the coffins, who made a real killing of the economy by putting locks and chains on the economy and pushing out 600,000 people into the street, those who introduced the emergency and anti-constitutional arrests of 11665 Serbian citizens, those who burned the National Assembly, those who are in the alliance, not with the people, are in league with Kovid 19, they are in league with the Death Virus, they are trying to bring down someone who shows love, who shows devotion, who shows patriotism, who is the only statesman in recent Serbian history, who are citizens in the first place, trying to oppose the politics of Alexander Vukic. The Supreme Judge for all of us is the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens have unequivocally said that the policy led by the Serbian Progressive Party and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, a policy of life, a policy of progress and that is why the policy has no alternative. I can't help but mention a citizen of the municipality of Kraljevo, from a village asking journalists if she was satisfied with the measures taken by the government briefly responded – thank you to Alexander Vukic, thank you very much, thank you to heaven. The gratitude of a citizen speaks enough about how much this authority, how much the president of the state, how much the government has done to the health system in the Republic of Serbia to prevent the most difficult situation, and that is a great mortality. It's sad when after 8:00 p.m., when all the citizens on their terraces give applause to those who save people's lives every day and who fight for life, life has no alternative, life has no price, then they hit pots and pots. It's terrible to me, it's devastating to me, it's extremely inhuman to me, it's an invitation to death. I can't believe normal people and people of the normal mind do that. Of course, in this situation, I want to point out that the health system is the one on the front line. It's done enough. At the VMC Karaburma, a new homing hospital was built that is ready to accommodate 60 patients. What I also want to point out is that the health profession was also listening to advice from experts from China, from a country whose inhabitants were first infected with this Kovid 19. Although this infection is little known, it certainly has experience, practical experience of Chinese experts and Russian and how it has contributed to our health system. Except for the health system, of course, I want to say that all other institutions have done their job in a responsible way, and I have to say that they have been working day and night, taking care of all citizens, taking care of those who are in self-insulation, taking care of their lives, but also the lives of other citizens, that they have worked hard for soldiers, that they have worked hard in social protection, at the Social Labour Centres, as well as those who also care about the most vulnerable categories of the population. Long live Serbia and to the victory of this monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73756	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73757	Thank you. First of all, on behalf of the SDA of Sandzak, I would like to extend my condolences to the families of the deceased citizens who, unfortunately, have lost the battle with this disease. The Sandzak Democratic Action Party will not participate, nor in any way support this subsequent legalisation of the state of emergency and your abuses in it. In addition to leading a brutal political campaign during the crisis, you other parties have closed down and made it impossible for the Malteses to work, including the SDA Sandzak. You even tried to silence the media at one point, while you were walking through Serbia past all the rules you've imposed on citizens over the past few months, and when a young, brave man in Novi Pazar tells you it's a functioning campaign, then you order the mayor to replace it. We live in the 21st century, and we fight the infection with the most primitive methods, by closing people in the house. Your emergency behavior shows that you have no measure, that you do not know the measure. After all, this is also the reason why all the institutions, including this congregation, have been destroyed. I'm glad the minister of police came back. We all see and follow the situation that in countries around the world and in countries in the environment, we can see that it can be managed by a crisis without exaggeration or neglect, without irresponsible statements. I am glad, as I said, that the minister has returned, because the police minister was the first to run to criticise the citizens of Novi Pazar for some irresponsible behavior, as he stated. But I didn't hear him criticise the behavior of various group gatherings throughout Serbia. In no word did I hear him answer when a few days ago in Novi Pazar another of our fellow citizens burned down because the Fire Department, which is in his jurisdiction, had no ladder to climb the fourth floor of the apartment building. What insubordination and irresponsibility are you talking about? Do citizens need to be obedient to you or to you citizens? You should resign because of the catastrophic state of the Fire Department in Novi Pazar, because of the lives lost, because of the destruction of the property of the people in Novi Pazar, because the firefighters are unable to put out any single fire. It's only a matter of time before one of those poor firefighters is also the victim of lack of equipment, expertise. It's your job, not to criticize citizens, to criticize citizens who are eager for clean air and freedom. You are here to serve those citizens who pay you to do your job, and your job is not to lecture and discipline the adult citizens who choose you. After these ominous criticisms of yours, there have been various bots, Krstici and other budgetary parasites, to further spread their hatred against the citizens of Novi Pazar on televisions with national frequencies, and make it a topic to discuss this rather than to discuss your abuses during the state of emergency. You owe a special apology to the citizens of Novi Pazar, Sandzak and all the citizens of Serbia who have been suffering your whims for months. I'm here and I'm talking about the citizens I represent. (President: Time, MP. I'm also talking about those who need to hear this, and to be honest, I'm not very interested in your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73758	But that's why Serbian citizens and MPs are interested in the answer. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73759	Sometimes you don't know exactly what to say when you hear words like this, but what is true and what Serbian citizens should know, first of all, I am a very precise man. My words are always directed where I want them, and I don't do it at all. I did not criticise the citizens of Novi Pazar, I criticized those people, as I did in Belgrade, and in Valjevo, and in Cačka and in all other cities, when individuals with their irresponsible behavior threatened the health of other people and I will continue to do so. The fact that someone is from Novi Pazar is not an exception to the law, as is not the one from Belgrade. Unfortunately, I also discussed this latest case with the chief of the Emergency Sector, Mr. Maric. He informed me that this fire occurred almost two hours after the fire broke out. The firemen have arrived in less than two minutes from the moment of the call. That's what you can ask the witnesses. People came in. So one of those guys, who was the bravest, came into the house himself. He came in and saved those people. Then the stories were staged – the equipment was melted on it, which was not true at all. The man said it himself. Here, he can say. Ask him to say it. Don't let us say that either, you and I, we weren't there. Here, let that man who wore the equipment on him say that. Tell him if it's melted or not. Otherwise, ladders were not necessary for this particular case. They went into space without them. So it wasn't the basis for action. Otherwise, we've launched the procurement of ladders and new ladders for Novi Pazar will arrive early next year. There's a procedure to be obtained. It's supposed to be built. So it's not an easy process. That's what Maric told me, the ladders should arrive at the beginning of next year. So we got all the firemen's equipment not only in Novi Pazar, but throughout Serbia, and new vehicles, which hasn't been bought for tens of years. I found a sector where nothing was taken for 30 years. In some cities for 40 years, they haven't seen a new jeep or a new assault vehicle or a new car tanker. I bought hundreds. They bought citizens of Serbia, I only managed the budget in a way that it was in a serious and responsible way for you to have as citizens of Serbia something of what I run this sector. The emergency sector was the one we can boast about today, the largest number of firefighters in the last 15 years. Is that enough? Not yet, but you can compare how many firefighters were 10.15 years ago, how many there are today and so each year. See the number of new vehicles that have been purchased, new auto-cistern and frontal vehicles and jeeps and those that serve for auxiliary jobs in fire-saving units, how many new intervention uniforms and how many new working uniforms are purchased and accompanying equipment and generators and those civil protection equipment. I don't want to talk about anything new at all. It should take us a long time to talk about everything new that we've implemented in the training process of the Emergency Sector. Our firefighters are working in a very serious and responsible way today. I have to commend these men of the Emergency Sector for having thousands and thousands of interventions. Since the beginning of this year, the most fires. They're very good at it, because they're very well-trained. We've got great teaching centers. We continue to build new regional centres so that we can train people in the most serious way that they do in developed countries and really try to fix it. We bought the equipment that makes it possible. Are we there yet to replace everything? Unfortunately, many of your ranks have been in power for many years. At the time when they were in power, they didn't mention firemen in New Market. Excuse me, why didn't they do something for them? You know, if I were in power doing something wrong, I wouldn't stay in it, but these people, unfortunately, when they could, and they were in power, and you, I'm sure, will recognize who I mean... I'm sure, I don't know how, but I'm sure you'll recognize who was in power, and he didn't do much for his fellow citizens because he wasn't obviously interested at the time. I am fully available to all citizens of all Serbia, hence the New Market. We want to work on making their safety better. We want to work on the fact that fire rescue units across Serbia are getting new vehicles every year and I hope that in a few years we will compensate for the lack of a few decades when we haven't received those vehicles, we haven't bought, unfortunately, and I hope that we will be able to say it then, no matter who was the minister, that the Emergency Sector is adequately equipped in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Thank you to all those brave people who fight against different emergency situations every day and, of course, who help citizens who are found to be helpful, to bear their intentions, their medications and everything else they do both as cops and as firefighters in this, to say, extraordinary circumstances during the duration of this epidemic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73760	Thank you. You want a replica? Enis Imamovic: Yes. You said you weren't interested in the answer, so I can't interpret it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73761	Minister, I have in front of me your silence in which you explicitly say you're asking the citizens of New Market to respect the measures imposed, that the police will strictly control their behavior during curfew. It's all right, but why didn't you publish it for other citizens? I don't see any other citizen you've called on your Twitter warrant, no other citizen across Serbia, which you're now counting, I haven't seen count, no city in particular. So, what are you talking about? A year ago, I'll remind you, all of Serbia's terrible scenes watched three women up on the terrace of the third floor in Novi Pazar, because firefighters don't have ladders. And you're not ashamed today to say you'll only be delivering ladders next year. And you're gonna respect someone for not getting a ladder in whose jurisdiction it wasn't even. Well, I'd be ashamed to say that. All those who have violated the measures will be punished, but you owe an apology to those who have respected the measures. You insult the dignity of people, adults, and those who respect and who behave responsibly in this situation, because you generalize things. You've been looking forward to it. And I'll remind you, you'll all come to that same New Market by vote now. We'll see how you go. We will remind you of this behavior and this calling of the citizens of New Market.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73762	There's no need to raise your voice, the debate is going well. Minister Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73763	See, that's the difference. You only think about voices. And when you do, you think about how to take votes. You think of the citizens of New Market as someone who needs to give you votes. I think of them as citizens who need me to do something. Unfortunately, many people have been sitting in power, they don't have to be personally in charge of it, but I'm sorry, you live in that town. I would like 20 new vehicles and 20 ladders to wait for me as Home Secretary in Novi Pazar. Well, what isn't? Why didn't you fight? What didn't all these people do? Why didn't all those people who were in power from New Market do so by then? You'll get a chance to answer, you don't have to get off the bench. So, I'm gonna fight that in every city we have more equipment than we had the day I became Minister of the Interior. It's like that today. Of course I'm not happy and I think we can do even better. But unfortunately, what was going on, you can't say it was honey and milk, and then in 2014 all of a sudden everything was bad. I'm sorry that I found myself in many sectors within the MUP situation that wasn't ideal. The state didn't always have money. Fortunately, thanks to that policy by Alexander Vukic, which allows us to have more money today, we can get more. Don't make M.P. your money, that's clear, and if the state didn't stand better, we wouldn't be able to do it, but we're directing it where it's most needed. Indeed, we have invested less in Belgrade than we have invested in many places within Serbia that have been hit harder in some previous years. Today we have more and I expect us to fight together, not for, as you say, votes, but for citizens to get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73764	Thank you. Let me see what I can do now. (Vojislav Seselj: What is it, Maya? I'm thinking. I'm like "thinker" Rodenov, and now is the moment to think about which direction to proceed. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73765	Here's the deal, Minister. Let's take down the secret mark from all the government sessions that the ministers from the New Market participated in, and see what they've been looking for and what this and any government has fulfilled. You have a New Market minister in your government today, and I don't know if you're criticizing him that he may not be asking for anything for the citizens of New Market, that he may not be asking you to equip the fire department. But, let me remind you, none of you in particular should ask you to equip the fire department. It's enough for you to have one terrible case a year ago, that three women burn you on the terrace because you don't have any firemen equipped, that a month after that, the firefighters come to you for an intervention with a tanker in which the water is frozen, that underneath that tanker lodges fire, to ice the tanker to put out the fire. Well, I'd be ashamed to answer that, Minister. You're transferring responsibility to a New Market Minister whose responsibility is not yours. But I am responsible, and I believe they've asked you and all of the previous police ministers. Why isn't that fulfilled? That's the main question, that's why we live in the city today, and why do we have to especially thank today for the donations that come from abroad? We pay taxes to Serbia, we pay taxes to Belgrade, and hospitals are equipped with donations. We're building schools and kindergartens from foreign donations. I'd be ashamed to say I'm in your shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73766	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73767	So I'm not running away from my responsibility at any time. As Minister of the Interior, I am the only one in the government responsible for the functioning of his portfolio and that is quite clear. And wherever there is my responsibility, I should carry it. And that's quite clear. I'm just saying that the situation that we found wasn't unique to New Market, what we were able to fix. Unfortunately, ladders can't be made in a relatively short time. We were trying to get them, we started the procedure. The procurement process is ongoing. Unfortunately, Corona has now slowed everything down, the manufacturers have stopped because they've stopped working. But anyway, I expect we'll have a brand-new ladder truck very soon. I don't know at this point how many new fire trucks we got for New Market in the last two or three years, I'll give you that information, but we did. We got everything we could, we even tried to get somewhere in the middle like Novi Pazar, where it might have come much less in an earlier period, there are such environments throughout Serbia, unfortunately, were simply neglected, to invest there more, to make it. Here, I was maybe a year ago in Sokobanja, I remember that. Fire brigade premises in very poor condition. That one jeep entrance they had, got from the gendarmes when the gendarmes finished with him, when he was no longer a minor to use. What could I have done? It was 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. Buy a new one. Of course. But that budget is not unlimited. I wish I could buy 500 trucks today for the fire department. I just can't. There are no funds in that budget. Anyway, we want to work, see citizens of every part of our country to take care of their safety. I said this to see how, I like that I provoked you, to see what it looks like and how easy it is to throw it away and say it – here, that's how it is. (Vojislav Seselj: How can you provoke as a minister? I'm just saying I'm glad he's provoked.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73768	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73769	First of all, it would really be a shame for me to share Serbian citizens in their faith and nation and to speak with such contempt about a state of Serbia that takes care equally of each of its citizens. It never invested again, here, specifically the Ministry of Health in Novi Pazar but now, never. A hundred million dinars have been invested. While I was Minister of Labour, we invested and finished your gerontological centre, bigger than you need, with higher capacities than the city of Novi Pazar, just to make sure that the state of Serbia takes care and takes care of itself. The Serbian army, for which we listened to those nonsense of not being welcome, etc., the Serbian Army disinfected every street in Novi Pazar and I did not notice any citizens who went around and prevented it from doing so. On the contrary, everyone understood why the Army was doing it and, of course, it should. We protect all our citizens. Serbia's army has also set up a temporary hospital, not asking who will be lying there, but needs the citizens of Novi Pazar and Dot, and immediately has done everything necessary. Serbia's military has equipped a new market hospital with a complete gas divorce system in two days. Now you have something you've never had before. Alexander Vukic brought in 10 respirators, 10 clinical and three more transporters. You didn't have any of those respirators, none of them. How's Alexander Wolf gonna make it? Well, I guess that's what you're saying - thank you. That's what they say. It's good. You do not pay taxes to Belgrade, you pay taxes like any other citizen of Serbia to your country. You pay taxes as well as citizens of Belgrade paying the Republic of Serbia and do not ask whether the respirator will go to Novi Pazar or Belgrade. The state decides on it. Wherever it's necessary, go and do it. So, the Serbia Army made it possible for you to have fully divorced gases in the hospital. And that's where the one who needs help will be treated. I hope no one shares them in faith and nation, that no one will take them off the respirator unless his faith and nation suit him. As far as the Serbian government's representatives are concerned, they won't, for sure. And he'll never do anything like that. You say, "How will you go?" Do you know how you'll go? You will go as Alexander Vukic went when he gave you a speech in Novi Pazar - with applause. With applause, as it has always been. And since I'm not sure he'll understand who Minister Stefanovic meant, here, I'll help - Sulejman Ugljanin. He's the one who liked to speak -- when I'm in the Serbian government, you don't have a minority problem, when I'm not in the Serbian government, you have a minority problem. It's always been that way and it's no different. So don't do that. A man sat in the government of the Republic of Serbia, was a minister, but as soon as he was not a minister, Serbia was no good, bad Serbia. Just because he's not a minister. As soon as he's a minister, he can do anything. As soon as he gets an official apartment in the Terrace, he can. It's good. And all that's needed is good. Then it's -- it's good Serbia, it's not bad Serbia. When it's not there, nothing. Let's do it again. I'm not talking about it because he's a Bosniak, I'm talking about it because he's such a man, because that's how he talks and treats his country. Contrary to the vast, vast majority of Serbian citizens, Bosniak ethnicities. I was in the Shadow a few weeks ago, visiting the army, seeing how the camp was secured. I've been welcomed by the leadership of the municipality, the citizens of Sjenica. It was only a few days after that nonsense that the army wasn't welcome. Of course, she is welcome in every part of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, in every part of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Army will take care of each citizen and do everything that can be better. The government of the Republic of Serbia takes special care of Novi Pazar. If someone had reason to complain, they could rebel some other municipalities around here, say how much you give and invest in New Market. But let's do it with a clean heart and we should do it and it's good. I'm proud of it. I wouldn't be proud of myself if I were so bad at talking about a country that takes care of me and my family and every one of mine. I'm sorry about that, but, well, that's what we had to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73770	Right on line, MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73771	I've heard from the Secretary of Defense now that we should be grateful because we've had to wait all the time to become some new focus of Coronavirus, so the president can hand us the respirators he bought from our money. We have come to a situation where more than 300,000 citizens, Bosniaks, Serbs, Albanians, Montenegrins, are in a hospital where we do not have the most basic conditions for work, not for the treatment of Corona, but for the most basic medical procedures. You're talking about an army, Minister of War. In the 1990s, the Serbian army turned cannon pipes towards Novi Pazar. All citizens of New Market remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73772	Imamovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73773	This Serbian Army... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73774	That's a lie. (Ennis Imamovic: It's not a lie! What you said was a lie. Lie! (Ennis Imamovic: Would you like me to show you a picture? The word has the Secretary of Defense, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73775	I have to admit, this is the amount of hatred I've had for my own country I haven't heard or seen in a long time. This is, to say the least, amazing. For those who do not know, otherwise, the barracks in Novi Pazar is located in the center of town. So he can't turn the pipes from above. He can't. It's downtown. He can't do that. This will mark today's session. They'll mark it ugly, mark it with the need to create a problem where it's not there. When we say thank you, yes, you should be grateful for the help you get. Of course you should. And what's wrong with that? Is it a shame to be grateful when someone helps you in your life when someone does something? They say Milos said -- I don't know what that man hates so much, I didn't do him any good. Well, here we know what he hates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73776	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73777	I have to do it for all the citizens of New Pazar, and there are people present from New Pazar, I'm sorry that the gentleman in question went away, to say if he ever invested more in the hospital and in the health system in Novi Pazar? Over 100 million were invested in a hospital and in a health care facility in Novi Pazar, over 70, more specifically 73 specializations were given, doctors, nurses were employed, angio-sala was taken, an x-ray, everything necessary from equipment, and reconstructed and done. People down there say it's never been so much invested in Pazar, and until a few years ago, there was a place that only served to transport patients, where nothing could be done, but the patients were put in cars and facilities and driven to other hospitals. In the last few years, all the best experts from all over Serbia have come down, operated on people, educated their chamber and improved considerable medicine in Novi Pazar. The new Pazar is now in much better shape, much more supply and can do more things than he could have done a few years ago. If this isn't true, I'm asking anyone to come out and say one single fact about what I said, that it wasn't true and that it wasn't done like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73778	Right on line, MP Muammer Bacevac, up to two minutes, colleague, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73779	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am truly surprised, and several times at this session, this subject is being abused, an extremely important topic that I was talking about here, and that is the danger we are facing. What happened several times, even now, is the abuse of this Assembly to obtain petty political points to the health of Serbian citizens. During this government, a Public Health Office was established in Novi Pazar, which has not worked for almost 50 years. During this minister, more than 100 million were invested in the New Market health system. This government, as I pointed out, allowed Novi Pazar, the only one at that time, besides other centres in Serbia, to receive a temporary Kovid hospital. We got everything we asked for and the truth is that we got a lot more about the health system than we got other cities of our size in Serbia. We certainly got not only in instruments, but, as the minister said, in professional assistance and in education. We who prepare to take over and run angio-hall are trained at the clinical center. Every week, we have prominent experts from the clinical center who train us, which many other cities of our size in Serbia do not have. Of course it's a fire unit, and I've mentioned it many times, but I haven't used it for petty political points, and I've asked for it to be strengthened, to hire more Bosniaks, more people who are from Novi Pazar, because New Pazar is specific, it's very narrow streets, it's very difficult to get to a place of fire because of overcrowding, and it's something that the MUP is trying to solve and that should be resolved as soon as possible so these scenes don't happen. In any case, this government has done a lot, especially in the event of a co-infection for the New Market and the health of its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73780	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73781	I thank the chairman. I will try to be the shortest possible, given that we have a little more time and that this session has paid off quite a bit, which is normal given the importance of this topic. So today we are talking about a bill that confirms all the regulations that the government has passed with the dry signature of President Vukic, thanks to which many of our citizens have been saved today and their health has been preserved. Although these measures were taken out of good intentions, although they have clear results in the preserved lives of our citizens, one part of the opposition, which is not in the hall today, was most strongly criticised by them and this particular part of the opposition a few days ago protested here in front of the National Assembly, did not enter the hall. Now I'm going to prove to you by one example how big the hypocrites are, if I can, I hope to succeed, with these gloves to open this phone. So on March 11th, Dragan Gilas published on his Twitter account – it is not time for politics and bickering, but for concrete measures in which the entire nation should participate. These are our proposals to help reduce the effects of the virus. And now, on their portal, they directly publish the following -- they proposed to the government to ban public gathering in open and closed space, we did so, to print and distribute information on the Covid 19 virus with phone numbers, and we did so, to prescribe the obligation to publish the text of the notice through all means of public information, and we did so, to prescribe the obligation of total home isolation of people coming from infected areas, and we did so, to oblige local self-government to provide citizens in home isolation with uninterrupted functioning, says grocery purchases, and we did so, gentlemen, our volunteers daily brought groceries to people. To make a decision on temporarily closed pre-school and school institutions for a minimum of three weeks, and we have done so, to ensure controlled supply of masks, and we have done so, gentlemen, to recommend to all businesses that it enables employees to work from home in the coming period, as well as to take all other necessary measures in line with the model for the countries of the European Union. We've done all of this, gentlemen, and they're protesting, not only protesting, but one of them that is the most vulgar shows the middle finger. What's that middle finger? A message to those who fight against this virus every day, who get respirators. Who is this message meant for? So how are you not ashamed, gentlemen? I think it's very important this comparison, I'm really going to have to make some comparisons with this very best, how can I say, countries that have the most money and that they say have the best healthcare system in Europe, compared to how they applied these measures, and what have these measures brought to them, and when they started to apply these measures? So with yesterday's data from Coronavirus in Serbia, 8,497 people died, and 168 people died. That's 21 deceased per million people. In Belgium, 47,000 were infected and 7331 died. That, gentlemen, is 612 people per million inhabitants. In France, 130,000 were infected, 23,660 died, and in the same France, for which day parliament would extend the state of emergency until June. In Spain infected 213,000, died 24,000. And I'm not going to point out any more examples, I just want to make comparisons with Sweden, the social network fandos were compared to Sweden, if they had any more liberal measures. Well, 19,621 people were infected there until yesterday, and unfortunately, 2,355 people died, which is a country that is more than Serbia by the number of people, but not much bigger, and has 20 times as many deaths. So you see if their liberal approach is better or our approach as we've had. Also, I was particularly irritated by one thing during the epidemic, which is while President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia struggled to obtain medical equipment and respirators until this part of the opposition that is not in the hall today spread disinformation and panic. First they said there were no respirators, and today Dragan Gilas publishes on his profile – why did Serbia pay four thousand respirators and how did we pay for it? Well, how is he not ashamed? Why didn't he buy a gentleman of great wealth at least one respirator, at least a hundred masks that he bought someone. I don't understand how he's not ashamed to publish these things. Secondly, I think that we can be proud of the fact that in Serbia no man has been removed from the respirator in order to join another man, or we didn't have to change one man's death for another man's life, which happened in other far richer countries, and that's another reason why this man should be a shame and everyone who speaks against these measures, and the same measures have proposed. I read it to you. Look at the profile of Dragan Gilas, he published this on March 11th. Some were bothered that President Vukic said she was also involved in helping with medical supplies. You know what? In Israel, their Mossad Intelligence Service has been officially engaged in the procurement of medical equipment, and it does not bother anyone there, but with us, my God, of course some of the opposition are in the way. We should also be proud of our pharmacists because Galenika made 372,000 chloroquin tablets to treat this virus. I think it's a really big deal. I would like to express my gratitude to all those who have helped Serbia in this difficult situation. I'm talking about the People's Republic of China, Russia, the United States, but I can't really mention what the EU has done, although with a little delay, but we need to be realistic, gentlemen, 93m euros in help we get from the EU, out of 15 million right now, 12 million have been paid for 12 cargo flights that brought 540 tonnes of equipment. The European Union has brought us 800,000 masks, 32 triage containers, and we need to be aware that they have helped us before that, gentlemen, to be ready for this virus. They helped our health system with 200m euros in 20 years, as much as was invested in Serbia by the EU. Of these, 252 ambulances were purchased, of which 122 have respirators that help us today, 250m euros in loans from the European Investment Bank to rebuild 20 large hospitals throughout Serbia, including the Tolak Institute, which has helped us so much in this situation. So, the measures that are being implemented are good, focused on preserving the lives and health of our citizens, on economic assistance to our citizens, on the economic recovery of the state, and more importantly, have already yielded the most important – in preserving people's lives and therefore I call on you to support them all. In the end, thank you to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, first of all, to all of our pensioners who have again taken the greatest burden of these restrictive measures. Please, dear citizens, stay home for the weekend, these measures will be relaxed, to save lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73782	Thank you, Mr. Michin. The word is Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73783	Thank you. Presidents of the Government and the Honorable Ministers, I will take this opportunity to ask you and all my colleagues in the O.R. in accordance with the remaining time. It is an impression and personal, if you will, which is imposed after a two-day debate here in parliament, but also the behaviour of individuals or works of the public for these 45 days, how long the state of emergency is going on. I wonder if it's possible and have you heard that in some country in the world, at the moment that the whole world stopped almost at the same time, when the whole world is faced with a virus that we don't even know about today? We know it's spreading around killing people. It's the only reliable thing that we can claim at this point about this virus. Is it possible that even at that time, therefore, when the whole world is faced with the pandemic, this virus is not directed against Serbia, is not directed against any political party, is not directed against the authorities or the opposition, it chooses neither the state, nor the sex, nor the religion, nor political membership, anything? Is it possible that even in such a situation, we cannot be unique, to respond together to all the challenges that the virus carries? We'll have to learn to live with the virus. So the world will no longer be the same as before the appearance of Kovid – 19. Is it possible that this is not the moment in which each of us will reconsider and decide whether he wants to continue with pettyness, with malicious comments, with criticism, with politics, instead of helping his country? Have you heard that in this situation no opposition in the world, opposition to its people, not opposition to the authorities, opposition to the authorities is desirable, as is any constructive criticism? Here we are talking about opposition to our own people, the opposition to the state, the lives of citizens are at stake. The government has done everything it can to preserve the lives of citizens, to preserve them, and if possible, to further strengthen the health system that must receive all these blows. I'm begging you, colleagues, just a little bit. I came here to say that Serbia has a ready-made plan for the aftermath of this crisis, both medically for the second wave of the epidemic and economics. That one plan and another is certainly among the better in the world. We'll fight further, we'll push together. I came to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that I know that we are not sinless, but that we have fought the best we could, that we have done our best and that we have worked night and day. The results certainly show that, but there's no relaxation until it's time to declare victory. Just respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia listen, let's be solid, push on, and I'm sure we'll be able to say soon that this has come to an end and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73784	Just finish it. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73785	Here, just two more sentences, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73787	So is it possible that there is no constructive proposal, but there is also a meeting with representatives of political parties? I haven't heard, I may have missed, is it one of those who today have not a single word of support, even if our citizens were not faced with the shortages of basic life intentions? The government has done everything, not only to ensure regular supply but also to launch production of all those deficit products so that we do not have to depend on others, and not only when it comes to the production of life intentions, but also the production of medical equipment, medicines, etc. Please, if you have an example to tell me which country the opposition is in, the opposition to the people, not the authorities, but its own people, and in which country is there an irresponsible phenomenon that citizens are calling for consciously to violate the prescribed measures in order to preserve their own health?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73788	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73789	I fully agree with you, and I'm not going to waste my time, I'm really going to add only two sentences so it doesn't go unnoticed, because there seems to be a danger of going unnoticed, and it shouldn't. Those who have consciously chosen to boycott the session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly at this time, at this time when the country and all our citizens are faced with such a serious crisis, have not dared and I pray that we never forget this, they have not allowed themselves to come at least at the beginning of the session, to pay respect to the deceased and their families to stand here as MPs who have received a mandate from some citizens, to stand here, that minute of silence, at least, to pay their respects, and then to come out if they want to boycott the work of Parliament and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia never forget that act, that you, as a national MP, have not come to the minutes of silence of the deceased from the consequences of the Coronus virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73790	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73791	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS and SRS positions since the beginning of the pandemic have been very clear. We have made it clear that Serbia needs political stability through it. In preventing the pandemic as well, we decidently said must be professional people, people who are of the authority to participate in this whole action to prevent the consequences of everything that the Corona virus carried with it. We knew that individuals on top of the Serbian government would try to take advantage of the moment of emergency to show that no matter how unprofessional they are to media manipulation they could raise or establish their rating. They were initially preceded by the health minister. It was not a surprise for us Serbian radicals, because we have warned before that a shift within the health ministry is needed. Not because we have something personal against Zlatibor Loncar, but because time and events have confirmed that he is not capable of performing that function. It is to abuse, but it is not in the right way within the law to perform that function. It happened that it was among the first, as the most responsible for the health of the population that came up with a statement later and that it brought unrest and instability into the public of Serbia. You remember a conference where the most responsible health minister said that Serbian citizens should not worry, that we already have the technology to produce the vaccine. On the question of the present journalist, how can we not help both China and the Chinese who at that time are facing this problem, the minister of response, quote – if they ask, we are ready to deliver. He even explained that objects such as barracks are already ready to accept the possible diseases of the Korona virus and that was something that created a large reserve at the outset when it came to the performance and actions of all those in the most responsible functions. This is also how they burdened and performed in public and the president of the state. Instead of realizing that the serious situation is that there is no more improvisation, no more playing, the minister moved on. He didn't care how much it cost the citizens of Serbia, how much it would increase anxiety. We Serbian radicals did not look back on it, but we said, there is time, there will be time, if God does, to just prevent that monster that has included Serbia, and then we will discuss everything and everything that has happened, and it is not in accordance with the Constitution and it is not in accordance with the law. Now, at this meeting, we clearly say that constitutional provisions are not respected. No respect for the procedure, no respect for the Law on the work of the National Assembly, no respect for the Rules of Procedure. We're not saying that to get, eventually, some political points in the election campaign itself or on the threshold of the election campaign, but we're talking about learning for the next period, because we don't know when this is going to stop, because they're announcing that there's a possibility of a re-return of the virus, or maybe again a bigger and stronger wave of pandemic than it has ever been before. But we need to learn some lessons. Why is it important that the procedure was followed when it came to holding a session and that the congregation had made such decisions? Well, just for political stability. We politically responsible Serbian radicals want nothing more than to achieve this through the necessary stability at critical times, with experience from a previous period. If there is no political stability, it is very difficult to solve any problem, especially this big and big problem. We are witnessing that all this time since the state of emergency was introduced, you are more concerned with these Twitter discussions than you are with those key political problems. You can see that the campaign against the current regime in Serbia is already under way. It is the ones who helped this current current regime and how they helped to get to the hair. But it's going, it's going very hard with the fulfillment of the promises, a series of political factors that have led them to put pressure on the current government. For us, Serbian radicals are not in the interest of destabilising Serbia. We are in the interest of making Serbia more stable politically by entering the election campaign. That is why, in some ways, we point out that the elections are held as soon as possible, as we have proposed through the amendment to abolish the state of emergency on May 3rd, given all the data, all the facts, the situation that you have presented here as well. The Prime Minister himself made it clear that he was going towards a better path, that he was going towards calming down, that the pandemic was simply eroding for a series of factors and time reasons, and what the government was taking. For this reason, because of the psychological state of the public among citizens, we propose that it be May 3rd. We're not the ones who are going to condemn the misdemeanor, the initial failure of a representative of the government. Well, the situation itself has stated that in certain parts of the functioning of the executive authority, it is not quite as it should be. But in time, we warned that the right steps should be taken, the right measures should be taken, in order to enter more calm waters, conditionally said in calmer waters. We are aware that this government basically works from extreme to extreme, from extreme to extreme. For example, at the beginning of the pandemic in Serbia, we heard that there is no danger for us Serbs, because we Balkans, we are resistant to it, it is a problem that applies to other countries, but in Serbia, we are by nature, genetic, as some "brainy" have said – we are resistant to this virus. To go to another extreme after that, where such rigorous measures are introduced, so much boastful behavior by individuals who are in high places, that simply a man cannot believe. There was no balanced policy when it came to taking measures, so to speak, well, we'll apply it to see what results it will give. We are deeply convinced that a great deal of the arrival of Chinese experts who have so much experience, based on the knowledge they have in some way, not in some, but in large ways, made a great contribution to stabilised, clearly pictured how and how it should be done. What is not drawn as a lesson is something you say we look into tomorrow, the future, and that's economic measures for recovery of the economy, and that's where we go to extremes. We're not saying that we should brag now that we're the best, that this economic crisis is not going to hit us, we're not even saying that we need to complain, but we need to see things realistically. These stories that within a year, or next year, we will already be the second to the success of the measures we take, in any case it needs optimism in the public, but excessive optimism produces counterproductive effects. You here have a very clear fact, as we didn't know about a virus called Corona, so we don't know what the consequences of this economic crisis will be, they don't even know much more developed, much richer countries, more organized, and we already have some projection that next year we'll be second to GDP. This is supported, not by real possibilities, not by real insight, but by the IMF predicting it. Haven't you gone a little too far? Then the data is that we don't need money at all, we don't need loans, we don't need money in the literal sense of words, but money that comes from credits that come from international funds, or the World Bank and the European Bank for Development, because these are expensive loans. What did we Serbian radicals tell you when it comes to preparing for a possible economic crisis? We said you see it more realistically, don't pile up that money to brag that we have 15 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, and we have a billion and a half in gold. Prepare to be able to meet a crisis that is only accelerated by the phenomenon of the pandemic, not by listening to that birthday girl, to say -- it doesn't matter, we're going to borrow 3.1 billion euros, so we're going to get over this crisis. How do we borrow them? Just to print records of value, broadcast them by buying them at 0% interest by the National Bank of Serbia, and that can provide a good part as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73792	Thank you, you've wasted your time. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73793	Thank you. I see that we are bringing an end to this, and I only wanted to thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia once more for our doctors, for our medical teams, for our experts, for their associates. Thank you to all those officers, the armies of the Republic of Serbia, the mailman, the inspectors who worked with us on this. I came here to report to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on what we were doing, how we fought, on which we made decisions, what measures we were taking and why we were making and what the results of these measures were. I came here to say that Serbia has a ready-made plan for the aftermath of this crisis, both medically for the second wave of the epidemic and economics. That one plan and another is certainly among the better in the world. We'll fight further, we'll push together. I came to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that I know that we are not sinless, but that we have fought the best we could, that we have done our best and that we have worked night and day. The results certainly show that, but there's no relaxation until it's time to declare victory. Just respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia listen, let's be solid, push on, and I'm sure we'll be able to say soon that this has come to an end and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-04-29-0.u73794	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), I hereby set the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, April 29, 2020, starting at 20.05 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency. Please sit down. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote to sit down and beg for a little more patience and of course you must have the masks on you and the gloves. Hold on a second. I can't break the measures. No one can break the measures. I ask all MPs to put on masks. I know, hang in there for a minute. The MPs I warned today and the MPs who have now come, please put on your masks. Not to beg, but respect the measures of the state where you live and work and respect Parliament and respect your colleagues around you. So put the masks on or you can't be here in the O.R. I don't even know who let you in without protective equipment. I really don't know. Don't put everyone else's health at risk because you're acting like children here, irresponsible and unreasonable. I told you today, I'll give you my warning. I'm gonna say some real warnings. After two years you come in here to make a mess. You have to wear masks and you're done. There's no business. I've closed the debate. So, please Srdjan Nog MPs, please Sasa Radulovic, whoever has no mask. Don't play the rabid glids here and act irresponsiblely. Put on your masks. What you're doing, it's a shame. You'll go home and infect who knows who. Get out. The measures must be respected. Doctors and professions are asking us to, and we have to respect that. (Saša Radulovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. There is no Rules of Procedure, since you do not follow the session at all. The debate is closed. Now, you've seen four MPs, I don't know what they want to do with it, except threaten the safety of each and every one of us who gets in touch with them after this session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. 141 MPs, including MPs playing with cards. So the final quorum is 144 present. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to confirm the decision to declare the state of emergency, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 128, against – 20, abstention – four MPs. Stop taking pictures of the MPs and the O.R. That's forbidden. I recommend therapy after an emergency. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the draft decision in principle by majority of the votes of all MPs. The amendment to the draft decision was tabled by MP Miladin Sevarlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 147 MPs. (Saša Radulovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, which is added after point 1 of point 2 of the amendment, was submitted by Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, and was not voted by 137 MPs. This amendment has not been accepted. At point 2 of the amendment was filed by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 128, against – 21, abstention – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of its publication. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision to confirm the decision to declare the state of emergency, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 127, v – 22, abstention – no one voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has adopted a proposal for a decision to confirm the decision to declare the state of emergency. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the regulations that the Government has adopted, with the signing of the President of the Republic, during the state of emergency, in principle. (Saša Radulovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote: for – 128, v – 25, abstention – no one, are the votes of three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. The MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković, Vojin Biljic, Zoran Radojčić and Srdjan Nogo submitted to the amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – four, abstain – no one voted 148 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Nenad Konstantinovic as member of the 1st Parliament. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Please, just keep your voice down and don't pay attention to anyone who isn't present at the session. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Marko Djurisic to article 1. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Alexander Seselj on Article 2. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – 24, the abstentioned – there is no vote, no vote by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the Law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have concluded our decision on the amendment, I would like to put to the vote the draft law on the validation of the regulations that the Government has adopted in the signing of the President of the Republic during the state of emergency, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 128, against -26, the abstentions - no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law confirming the regulations that the Government has adopted, with the signing of the President of the Republic, during the emergency. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, 29 April 2020, at 15 hours and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: for - six MPs. I find he's not injured by the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Bajatovic, 29 April 2020, at 15 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I am concluding the vote: for - 12 MPs. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency.
