ParlaMint-RS_2020-08-03-1.u3	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the Commission has been educated in order to establish the agreement of the People's Parliament's MP's election and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out in accordance with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly compared the information contained in 250 credentials on the selection of the MPs with the relevant information in the Report on the elections carried out for MPs and found that all 250 persons who, in line with the above, had to be confirmed by the MPs' mandates. I thank you and wish you good luck in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-08-03-1.u4	According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and Article 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of the Commission's report on establishing the consent of the Parliament of People's Parliaments to the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out for the People's MPs of the National Assembly, which confirmed the mandate of all MPs. Since the term of office of all Members of the People has been confirmed (two-thirds of the Members of Parliament shall constitute a term of office), pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia The National Assembly has been established. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. "I swear to uphold the duty of the civil servant's loyal, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and man-made rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to Secretary General Srdjan Smiljanić through the service of the Protocol of the National Assembly. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. Dear Members of the People, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 22. The Rules of Procedure need you to educate the parliamentary groups. I would also remind you that the parliamentary group has been educated by the submission of the upcoming National Assembly through the Office of the National Assembly of the List of Members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list particularly highlights the president of the parliamentary group, his deputy, and that the MP can only be a member of one parliamentary group. This concludes the session of the National Assembly for the day. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. Thank you for your cooperation, and for today we have completed the work of the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 193 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly at the First Session of the National Assembly exists if most of the national MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 227 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are in the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 22. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as established by the following parliamentary groups: Parliament group "Alexandar Vucic – For Our Children", the National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović was appointed as the National MP, and as his deputy MP, Dr Vladimir Orlic; the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS), the National MP Ivica Dačić was appointed as the National MP, and as his deputy National MP, Djordje Milicevic; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliament Group of Representatives, the National MP Branimir Jovanovic was appointed as the President of the Parliamentary Group, and as his deputy MP, the National MP Natasa Mihajlović Vacić; the MP of the SPAS Group was sent to the National MP Marina Ragus, and his deputy deputy MP, the National MP, the National MP Radovan Tvišić; the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Nationalities of the Nationalities of the Nationalities of the Nationalities of the Nationalities of the People of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana was sent to the Republic of Ljubljana. Dear People's MPs, bearing in mind that MPs Bratimir Vasiljevic, Katarina Rakic and Zeljko Tomic did not take an oath to verify the mandate in the establishment of the National Assembly, it is necessary that they now pass it. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We continue with the work of the Assembly, second item of the agenda – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY. (Enis Imamovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I shall inform you, in accordance with Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I received one proposal from the National Assembly president. The motion has been submitted for the vote. (Enis Imamovic: A breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
