ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 158 MPs present at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. As you know, on Tuesdays and Thursdays on the basis of Article 287 of the President, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups may request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Ardend Bajrami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1537	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, good afternoon. As one of the new MPs in parliament, I have followed the debates that are being held at meetings, and on the one hand, I am surprised, and on the other hand, I am disappointed with the things I listen to and where MPs should be in spirit with democratic mentality, not that they continue to promote politics in the 1990s. This is really desperate, but we'll have time for this in my future presentations. In any case, I want to rely on something that started at one of the sessions and was announced by the prime minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, when she said - let's talk about something that seriously improves the lives of Albanians in Presevo Valley. Yes, Mrs. Brnabic, we'll talk about this today. In addition to what my colleague, Mr. Kamberi said about budget failure and everything else, I would like to add that there is no significant improvement in neither movement nor in any vital sphere for Albanians from the Presevo Valley and I must conclude that the political will of these and previous governments is indifference, i.e. there was no concrete movement towards improving any budgetary position that would have positive effects on the everyday life of citizens of this area. Although you know of the problems that Albanians from the Presevo Valley have for a longer number of years, today we will especially highlight the problem of public health in the Presevo Valley, which during this difficult period of the pandemic is unprecedented. The problems have not begun since the beginning of the crown, but have been decades of problems. While the global pandemic has reached its peak today in the humanitarian crisis, I would like to remind you that citizens of the Presevo Valley due to minor health problems should go to the nearest hospital almost 50 kilometers from our homes, bear in mind that in each case, first aid takes at least an hour to the nearest hospital, and the number of patients who died on the road before they arrived at the hospitals, I will not comment on it, because these are the most inhumane conditions that do not exist in the poorest countries of this planet. What do you think of this? Where was your government during these difficult times in Presevo? How much is the government present in solving, supporting and improving this situation? Is there another example that you know that an ambulance team takes an hour to get to the nearest hospital? How is it possible that in other cities and areas that are much, much smaller than Presevo and Bujanovac, there are much more suitable infrastructures and public health facilities, or hospitals, while we do not have one? How can you convince citizens of Presevo Valley that the problems have nothing to do with the government's political will and what have you specifically done to improve the lives of citizens and why do our citizens not have any hospitals in the region? Prime Minister Ana Brnabic herself said in Belgrade that the southerner it is, the sadder it is. What does that mean? Do you know what that means? This means that the government has never been present to serve citizens in Presevo and there is currently no good political will to solve our problems. So where there's political goodwill, there's a budget, and where there's a budget, there's hospitals and factories and understanding for a good life. Today, if there really is a democratic political mentality, if there really is a different political mentality today, then today, Mrs. Brnabic, as head of the government and most in parliament, should confirm that she will take care that the current government will allocate funds to start building a hospital that serves all the citizens of Presevo Valley, which can only be achieved by good political will, by increasing the municipal budget and improving the financial position of the coordination body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1538	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1539	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Dacic, since we have already discussed this issue at the National Assembly College, I would like to ask you a specific question because I think it is important that the public hears your position, and therefore Parliament's position on this issue and, if you are able to, of course, I would like you to answer immediately. If you're in the mood, if you're able, I'd like you to answer this question immediately. The issue is very concrete – is there any possibility that we can finally discuss in the plenary the European Commission's Progress Report on Serbia on the European Integration Road? I know this is not a practice so far, and this would be the first time something like this has happened in parliament, but I'm going to say why I think it's important and why I'm asking this question today. I think we are entering a phase of unremembered pressure on both the President of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on you as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also on the entire National Assembly, on all MPs who have been elected by the will of citizens. An economically strong and stable Serbia, Serbia that leads a responsible and determined policy on the defence of national and state interests, Serbia that wants to maintain its position, Serbia that has its own opinion, which leads to an independent foreign policy that is in the best interest of its citizens and which does not want to spoil historical and traditional friendships definitely not respond when we say anything and when we point to anything, we generally get warnings. Some European parliamentarians only because they have that prefix – reporters behave in accordance with the usual practice – Belgrade is absolutely responsible for everything and Belgrade is absolutely guilty of everything, and Pristina is looking through the open air so far. They have the right to say a few days before such an attitude in the European Parliament and if this is the position of only one European parliamentarian, but not the position of the entire European Parliament, but they have the right to say that the good news is that Serbia will not open new chapters. We listen to attacks every day from Pristina, we listen to the pressures expressed in one wartime Hague policy, which has a clear goal, which is to bury dialogue, normalisation of relations, the process of normalising relations, and then what respect for the agreement we are talking about on the other side at all, and what respect for the agreement we can expect. I think their next thesis is unfortunately that Serbs have never lived in KIM space. In the same day, quite accidentally, three Croatian media come out with the same thesis. You know, when someone says that Republika Srpska's war spoil is the Republic of Serbia, then someone deserves an answer, and that answer in my opinion should also be given by MPs as legitimately elected representatives of citizens, as someone who has the mandate and trust of citizens to do one responsible and serious job. Albanian lobbyists who have not changed rhetoric for 20 years, with the same rhetoric, are those who for many years, 20 years back hate Serbia, work very intensively in Congress and prepare the US administration to exert a terrible pressure on Serbia, and two are key points, Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska. One general hickey on Serbia. I think about all of this, citizens should have their stand. The first step in all this would be to consider the European Commission's report. Citizens expect us to have a responsible and serious relationship on this issue, and it is important in our opinion, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, to achieve one general consensus, unity, because Serbia has always been as strong as it is unique, this general consensus will certainly be to support one clear and unequivocal policy and president of Serbia, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1540	Thank you. Since George asked me a question, we had one more time at the college, we discussed this once again, our intensity and our desire to discuss, that at the National Assembly session, and that is true, for the first time, at least I don't remember that it was before, to consider the progress report that the European Commission prepared and published several months ago regarding Serbia. In this regard, the best possible way to process this is sought, and this will likely be on the proposal of our Committee on European Integration, i.e. MPs on the Committee, which means that, since our regular meeting is held until 29 December at midnight, we will have at least two or three more sessions until then, and our goal is to discuss this point, i.e. at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we will consider all these issues and express our views. So far, it has been a practice to discuss only this on the Committee on European Integration. Let's move on. Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1541	Thank you, National Assembly President, Mr. Dacic. My current parliamentary question concerns the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, or REM. A lot of my colleagues and in previous discussions here at the tide were asking questions to REM, and it seems to me that it's all somewhere else in this room, and nowhere outside of this room, or where we were supposed to get answers, we haven't heard those answers. My time today is quite limited, but I'm going to do my best, given that this is a very serious topic that requires REM really very precise answers, I'm going to try to be as brief as possible and somehow embrace everything I had planned today. So, first of all, considering that the role of REM, within my jurisdiction, protects my legal jurisdiction the laws of the Republic of Serbia in the domain of electronic media and secondly and as an overly important interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking questions that are truly crucial to our further relationship with this body here in the tide and our debate which will certainly be in the course of this session dedicated to REM. First of all, I'd like to ask, do the N1, sports club and Nova S have rem permits and do they pay compensation to the regulator? Are N1, Sports Club and Nova Soe broadcast abroad and where? Is that Luxembourg or Slovenia? If they are broadcast, are these same unchanged content re-transmissioned in cable networks in Serbia or do they subsequently end up in Serbia and differ from their original broadcast? Has REM so far asked the SBB operator, under the law, to sanction and exclude those channels that violate the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Are these claims in REM's report on where and where these three TVs are broadcast, where they are mastered and whether there are Serbian commercials, which is very important, based on the personal insight of the competent REMs, or was it determined by the United Group just handing over its report? I also ask that REM declare the precise data as to how much damage the countries have suffered from the fact that 20 United Group channels since 2014 do not pay the subscription according to our knowledge. These are key issues on the basis that we really want to consider here in Serbia's plenary and as a control body whether REM is doing what the law says belongs to it and whether it controls the way the law requires. However, given that we had one very much before this, let me say, a key point concerning the election campaign, and it relates to broadcast videos on N1 and Nova S television, given that it's been quite a while since then, I would ask another question that is currently being asked about the broadcast of these videos. Since REM banned them, I will remind you that the videos were read, or the message they were carrying – the only way not to vote for the Wolf is not to vote. Four hundred twice they are broadcast on channels N1 and Nova S. Here you can see exactly one view that is extremely shown and understood in graphs. So, the boycott video was broadcast 402 times, while the SNS broadcast its videos on this television only 28, the rest of the UDS, Sapic 20 and 15. What is also interesting, which should be dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Agency is how these videos are paid and how, since we know they were not paid by the political party, but that they were paid by a legal person, or a private company, but that later on, the videos were also banned and removed from the programme, that they ended up on the " YouTube Channel" by the Freedom and Justice Party, and that certainly the Agency ordered this party to report these videos within the framework of its regular and pre-election activities, i.e. election activities. Question for REM, since they just banned the video, what else is it that they took? Have certain actions been directed to these TVs? How did they sanction them and do they sanction them? Certainly it is very important whether there were still these hidden political messages from political parties in the middle of an election campaign on these TVs? To that knowledge, we didn't have any other kind of response from REM. Also, in addition to this price that is large in the difference in payments by political parties, in order to look at the situation of this clear malfeasance and thieving, I would also ask that we do not pay this tremendously high, million-dollar number in the euro of the unpaid tax of these televisions that we clearly know that, given that they are being held as cross-border channels, they are not paying taxes to Serbia, that they are clearly telling us how much of the unpaid tax to Serbia and how much, I say, the high million-dollar amount could be provided by hospitals, respirators, vaccines and protective equipment that have been taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how long will REM allow these two televisions to operate in the de facto gray zone? One more thing, I'll be very brief. Since certain REM members appear uninterrupted on these televisions and thus and de facto acknowledge, in fact, the legal existence and production of these two N1 and Nova S TV programs, since one of them is Judith Popovic, who here, right here in this room, has been chosen by most SNS, and who called this same synergy Maped Show, I am very glad to hear such words, regardless of which they are offensive exclusively to MPs of the National Assembly and do not respond at all to anyone who deals in this way in public work. I am extremely pleased to hear that, because in this way, in fact, those words by Judite Popovic prove that, despite being elected as members of REM in the National Assembly, REM is an independent political body that acts entirely, quite legally, but it is very important whether, since it is not dependent on power, it is quite evident and the question arises whether it is depending on the opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1542	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic and Đuro Peric. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate. National MPs Djordje Komlenski, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Implementation and Security, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. People's MP George Komlensky wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1543	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, we spoke of this desire to correct the law even when amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security were made in 2019. However, the amendments that we have made at the time did not accept the Assembly, although I think the argument was more than established and important. It's been a year since we've shown that we're absolutely right. Based on the information I received from public enforcement officers and courts and my colleagues, they point to the fact that we have indeed made amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Security, when we have limited the possibility that maintenance can be charged from the most half of the income of the pay-backs, we have brought into a very unfavourable situation primarily under the age of underage children, who, for this reason, already have a problem making claims that they have based on judgments and decisions. Why is this happening? This is what we said at the time, which is that the courts may, on behalf of the maintenance, pay half of the income from maintenance officers, on behalf of supporting children from the previous marriage or some other persons to whom there is a maintenance obligation, but that we will be in a situation that due to the duration of court proceedings, practically creating a delay in the collection of that claim, the objective costs incurred by minors, or their representatives, because they are created during the procedure, will not be able to make the collection. So, in situations where the obligor is obliged to pay 50% of his fees on behalf of maintenance contributions, practically underage persons, children, the most vulnerable category comes into the situation that his claim cannot be charged. I think that in this way we have questioned the rights of the most vulnerable categories and for this reason, primarily related to this Article 2, we continue to insist on the proposal that the law in this sense is corrected, amended, because simply the comments which were and arguments at that time were made that those persons who give support can't survive are not in place, because children are not only deprived of parental love, in this way we want to correct that injustice so as not to be denied the bar and for the material part that the courts do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1544	Thank you. I was just about to distract you, I didn't say it at first, that it was scheduled for three minutes. Since there is no debate on this proposal, I would just like to say that several MPs, which I have just read, have proposed several draft laws and decisions. In view of and not to dispute at all the issue and the subject of the importance of all this, I asked about it this morning, and we have no position of government or anything, and we didn't plan for it to go to this session of the National Assembly, but every MP and every group has the right to propose an addition to the agenda. So I don't want to suggest anyone at all, but just so you're aware of that. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm stopping the vote. Out of 179, no 171 MP voted for eight. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. People's MPs Bojan Torbica, Ana Karadzic and Djordje Komlenski, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. The word has Bojan Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1545	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia on 1 January 2010, mistrials were introduced. Judges of criminal courts are suing cases in the field of fighting corruption, customs, the budgetary system, foreign exchange, traffic security, public order and peace and many other areas. The diversity of the case and the number of regulations cannot be compared to any other matter in other courts, since judges in criminal courts apply around 270 laws and about 800 regulations in their work. The fact is that the expertise and competence to perform a judicial function which, when elected to a judicial office, must be met are identical with the conditions that judges must fulfil in other courts, and the criteria and procedure for the evaluation of the work of judges and the president of criminal courts are identical with the evaluation of the work of other judges. But what we have to notice is that, although the status of criminal judges with all obligations is equal to the status of other judges, they are not the same and the rights, which only tells us that the judges of the criminal courts do not have the same earnings as the judges in other courts, although there is a fact that all other categories in the courts have the same way of dealing with colleagues in other courts. What I want to point out is that, for example, In 2018, only the Belgrade Criminal Court, by collecting fines, entered a billion and 220 million dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in the same period for the earnings of judges and judicial staff with contributions, has paid about 465 million, which means that there are around 800 million dinars left in their work in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we believe that these changes of law should be passed because we also consider that judges for violations are not burdensome of this budget and that they earn their salaries triple and justify doing their job on an up-to-date, secure and honest basis. If in Serbia's budget we can find places for which NGOs, as we know, work against the interests of the Republic of Serbia, there must also be places for judges working in courts for violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1546	Thank you. And there's no debate here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: a total of 178, for – four, they did not vote – 174. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MPs Ana Karadzic, Bojan Torbica and Djordje Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. National MP Ana Karadzic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1547	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, has been 21 years since NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, 21 years since we were bombed without the consent of the Security Council, contrary to international law. In 1999, over 2,500 civilians were killed, over 6,000 wounded, and 2,700 children. We don't have a final number today, either the name or the last name of the victims of NATO aggression. We don't have brought to justice, but we only have those who don't say and who today, as Madeleine Albright say, are embarrassingly declaring -- today I would have an even stronger attitude than I had at the time. What does that mean? Does this mean that in 1999 they were supposed to kill even more people? Does it mean that a little 79 children were killed? Dear fellow MPs, our young ones in the congregation today have more than before. We didn't understand what was going on in 1999, but today we understand very well, and we are obliged to count by name and last name every man who died in NATO aggression. Under the bombs, the life of the 11-month-old Bojana Tosovic, she would be 22 years old today, Marko Simic, who was killed in the arms of his father, would today be 23 years old, Milice Rakic killed in her bathroom on her costume, today she would be 24 years old, Branimir Stojkovic, who would be 27 years old. Whole families were killed. This way, I would ask all MPs to support the proposal to form a commission that would determine the name and last name of the exact number of those killed during NATO aggression. In 2000, when some of the new ones who talked about the future came to power, they were interested in something else, they were not interested in this information. That is why they called NATO an aggression by humanitarian action and humanitarian intervention, but it is neither intervention nor action, but exclusively aggression paid for by the Serb people. It's not enough for us to have our friends from Europe having weddings, nor do we want them to say that it's a mistake and a tragedy. We just want to bring to justice those who killed our civilians, we want them to say by name who these members of the MUP, members of the Serbian Army, who these civilians who have innocently died. I ask the MPs to understand the importance of this, to realize that if we don't solve it, we leave the burden to our children. I ask all MPs to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1548	Thank you. I just want to say once again, in order for there to be no ambiguity, we are not here to state the essence of the subject being discussed, nor NATO aggression, nor the need to discuss the consequences and the victims. Here we only plead to the procedure and the way we approach the subject. And accordingly, that's why this subject is as an addition. It has been proposed by several MPs, which they have the right to do, but at this point none of the competent authorities that should be bound by other laws to provide answers to this topic have been spoken of. That's why they weren't on the agenda for today's session. Please plead. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 180, for – 12, did not vote – 168. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure, proposed to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on the Digital Property Act, the Proposal for a Law on Fiscalisation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Returns of Assets and Compensation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Amendments of Assets, the Amendments to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws of the Act on Laws of the Contracting Party, the Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Amendments to the Act on the Laws of Laws of the Act on the Laws of Laws of the Act on the Contracting Parties to the Charter, the Amendment of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Act on the Charter of the Cross-Cashusion of the law on the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter, the Charter of the Act on the Law on the Law on the Charter on the Law on the Law on the Fundamentals and the Amendments of Fundamentals and the Charters of the Charter on the Charter of the Charter on the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter, the Charter, the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Act on the Act on the Charter of the Act on the Act on the Act on the Act on the Act on the Act on the Charter of the Charter of the Charter of the Act on the Charter of the Act of the Act on the Charter of the Charter of the Act of the Charter of the Charter of the Law of the Charter of the Act of the Act of the Act of the Act of the Act of the Act of the Act of the Law of the Act. Does MP Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am stopping the vote: a total of 178, for – 166, did not vote -12. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda to the vote, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: a total of - 179 for – 169, 10 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on digital property, 2. Proposal for a fiscalisation law, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Return of Disposal of Assets and Compensation, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Temporary Editing of Tax Payments for Public Media Service, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on common procurement of medical products, 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project “Belgrade on Water”, 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual journey of citizens, 16. Proposal for a law establishing a guarantee scheme as an economic support measure to mitigate the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 virus SARS-COV-2, 17. Proposal for a law on the approval of the Financial Contract of the Connected School in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, 18. Proposal for a member of the Fiscal Council, 19. List of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, 20. Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mines and Energy, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Slavica Savičić, Saša Stevanović, Daniela Vazura and Gojko Stanivović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zoran Lakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Filip Shanović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dr. Dragan Demirović, Vojislav Lazarevic and Verica Ignjatović, Deputy Minister of Finance, Željko Radovanović, Executive Director of the Office for the Prevention of Money Lazarević, Svetlana Kuzmanovic and Tatjan Medjedović, Head of Finance and Finance of the Ministry of Finance of Finance and the Ministry of Finance of Finance of the Republic of Bosnia and Publicity. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with this proposal that we have accepted on the merger of certain points, given that there are several amendments to the draft laws, our agenda for these three days will be to close the debate on the first draft of the agenda, and the next day we will have a debate on the second and third proposals to merge the agenda points, and on Thursday we will have a debate on the first part of the debate in particular and it will be a day to vote. So you're counting on us to work for three days. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 14, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, and some have, to apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), The Rules of Procedure, I open a joint principled and uniform search on the Digital Property Act, the Proposal for a Law on Fiscalisation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Resuscitation of Assets and Compensation of the Law on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Amendments to the Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Law on Amendments to the Laws of the Law on Publicity, the Proposal of the Law on the Law on Publicity of the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on Publicity and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law. I would also like to publicly praise here the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Minister Sinisha Malogi, and our Committee on Finance and President Aleksandra Tomic, for organising a public hearing for these first two laws on the agenda - the Law on Digital Property and the Law on Fiscalisation, which is the first public hearing organised in the new term of our National Assembly, which will certainly contribute to the more efficient work of Parliament. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1549	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, good afternoon, everyone. It's a great pleasure to have a chance to see you again this week. We are facing some 17 laws from the Ministry of Finance's domain, during today's, tomorrow's and tomorrow's sessions Thursday, and several other laws that are from other areas. I'm here, of course, to answer every question you have during today's debate. The first law in front of you is the Digital Property Act. It's a law that's completely new. Digital property is otherwise also called crypto property, and that is what the world has a lot to talk about, applies, too, and Serbia does not want to lag behind the world. So this law regulates, regulates the issue of trade and the question of the use of these krypto currencies at all. The most famous is the bitcoin already widely used in many countries of the world and accepts it as a means of payment. According to this law, after its adoption, if you vote it, the situation will also be in the Republic of Serbia. I would only draw your attention to the so-called. investment tokens. It's something that's very important for start-ups, for innovation companies. So in the world, a large number of companies are financed in this way. It is virtual property, and it is this law that regulates it, which opens up alternative sources of funding for these young innovative companies, giving them the opportunity to get the money they need to start a business, to realize the ideas they have in their head, in this way. This once again shows how much we want to move forward with the world, how much we don't want to lag behind and, in the end, how much we want what, for us, and for everyone else, the future, which is this innovative technology, IT development, startups, new ideas, the chance of young people, in this way we encourage further growth and the development of our economy. The next law that lies ahead of you is the Law on fiscalization, a very important system law, a law that should allow us to fight both the gray economy and, on the other hand, to modernise the possibility and conditions of turning in our country. The last fiscalization bill was passed 15 years ago. Meanwhile, technology has progressed, systems have progressed, ways in which fiscal accounts are being issued have progressed, and we want to go, when it comes to this law, into step with the world. The most important amendment to the law concerns the possibility of tax administration to the so-called real time, real time, has control over traffic through fiscal devices, and that's something that happens in the most developed countries of the world. Since 1 January 2022, when the law is to enter into force in terms of its application, such a system will also be applied in the Republic of Serbia. The benefits of this system are great, the advantages of business, the advantages of trade. I'll just give you some and you'll see how much savings these are. You remember probably those paper tapes. These paper strips, if I'm not mistaken, cost about 50 dinars, one, and when you have a small store, say, spend one or two days or two during the week, it doesn't matter, but those who have large retail chains are miles and miles of tape. It's still a condition in the existing law that you keep those tapes for three years. So it's a huge cost, a huge effort for businessmen. Under the new fiscalization law, since we're digitizing everything, the paper strips are gone. There's no reason to use the so-called. GPRS modules. It's a cost of 450 dinars a month, 5,400 dinars a year for every businessman. So that's another newspaper, but on the other hand another advantage of digitisation being introduced by this law. Not to miss something, no more need to replace a two-year-old chip and cost about 12,000 dinars. There's no need for a regular annual service that's somewhere around 10,000 dinars. So, serious, serious savings for the economy, where what I have repeated several times, I will repeat before you today, the introduction of a new fiscal system. This means digitisation, software, a number of devices that can be used will not cost Serbia a single dinar. In the budget you voted last week, we provided three billion dinars for subsidies and support for the event. So, to ensure that these devices, the promotion of software, everything else necessary is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's a very simple reason for that. On the one hand, we want to do nothing to burden our economy, and on the other hand, it will return to us through better tax collection, through better records, through a greater fight against the gray economy within a year. So on that side, once again, since I've heard more criticism or some thinking without any basis, that it's going to be a major blow to the economy, no, it won't. So, even the dinars won't separate the businessmen from their pockets, this is all Serbia's state to cover, to improve the system. This is just the first step. Step two and the first quarter of next year I'll come here before you to defend the so-called law. "e-factures". So another system law that needs to contribute to the fight against the gray economy. The same will be required to apply from 1 January 2022. So, e-factures, the Fiscalization Act should contribute to the fight against the gray economy, and the very e-factures that mean that there are no more paper invoices, but that in the system simple invoices of entry and exit matches, will allow us to return VAT within the time limit. So within one day, and you know it yourself is the highest requirement of the economy. So, not to wait, although they wait much less today than before, but not to wait for two or five days, not ten days, but for all those invoices that fit into the system to lay the basis for VAT to return at the moment. Another system law that not only gives us the opportunity to fight the gray economy, but on the other hand supports and supports our businesses to increase their liquidity and to turn their business around faster. So on that side, those are the two laws that are waiting for us, one is ready after a public debate, today is here in front of you, and the other will be ready in the first quarter of next year. Once again, the application of the law from January 1st, 2022, so we have all year long enough for all systems to improve, to create all assumptions to go into successful application. The third law that is before you today is a law relating to the return of the seized property and the compensation. This law determines the dynamics and techniques of bond broadcasting, given that, as you know, the Agency for Restitution is doing its part of the job. After this law, I expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to define the necessary coefficients, the coefficients multiplied by the compensation base, in order to define the level of compensation. The law right now regulates realisation, i.e. payment after the level of compensation has been defined, and for all those who will be owed up to 1000 euros, they will be paid immediately. For all those with a higher amount, therefore, how the compensation solutions will be issued by the Agency for Restitution until 30 June of the current year, in September that same year, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision on bond broadcasting. I apologize, the show is being held in January of next year, and in such a way we will finally end this part that concerns the restitution and compensation of all those who get a solution from the Agency for Restitution. Money laundering and terrorist financing is the next law before you today. Most of the changes are related to two laws. So for the harmonisation of the Digital Property Act, in order to fully comply with the rules of conduct for all those who are under that law decide to deal with virtual property. Therefore, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering now stands for this part and that is the Recommendation 15, which requires the licensing or registration of persons providing services related to virtual assets, so that this is not anonymous, but that there is an accurate and clear control and registration of all those involved in this activity. The Excise Act is today before you and the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. This is a gradual alignment in the scope of excise duty policy with EU standards, hence the adoption of a medium-term excise plan from 2021 to 2025. The law on corporate tax, also a compliance with two laws. One law is the Virtual Property Act, the other is the law on alternative investment funds. So when we're passing one set of laws, what we're trying to avoid is that we can't apply it because some other laws that are related to it haven't been passed or changed. We, as you can see, when we define a set of laws, define it so that everything changes in parallel so that even the success of the law is greater. Law on income tax, also two things. One is the treatment of income, i.e. income made by a natural person on the basis of investments in alternative investment funds, and what is much more important in this law is something that we have defined even when adopting the budget for 2021. So we raise the untaxable share of income from 16300 to 18300 dinars. That's the deal we made on the socio-economic council with the Union of Employers. Since the minimum labour price has been increasing by 6.6% since 1 January, the agreement is that the state will disburse the profit burden in such a way as to increase this non-taxable portion of income from 16300 to 18300 dinars, and in this law it is in this law that we have made and fulfilled since 1 January when a minimum labour price increase applies, this will be applied. The VAT law, therefore, is simply once again in line with the amendments to the laws, i.e. the new law that has been defined and relating to alternative investment funds, and we also agree with the tax treatment of the transfer and replacement of virtual currencies, something that is the subject of the first law that I was talking about today, which is the Digital Property Act. Not to forget, just before the Law on Income Tax, another very important thing that is important to me, and I've missed it, I apologize, so in this law we also extend to the request of the economy one relief for new employment, it's a refund on tax payments and a contribution of 65% to 75% for each new employee. So it's a relief, a tax relief for all new employees, and it's, that system has proved to be good in practice, that policy has proved good in practice, and we, in this way, through changes to this law, extend that deadline and apply these reliefs for another year. The law on contributions to compulsory social security is about the Law on Income Tax, which enables the application and implementation of this relief for new employees I had just talked about. Amendments to the Capital Market Act, two things that are important here, simplification of the procedure for drawing up a prospectus for issuing debt securities of value and shortening the time period in which society can maintain public society status without trading shares. So, the period is being shortened to reduce, to say, the possibility of abuse of the fact that, without trade, you continue to retain the status of public society. It is very important that this change is related to simplifying the process of drawing up a prospectus for the issue of bonds, so corporate bonds have proved to be a very useful means of financing individual investment plans of individual companies. We have taken the first steps in this regard and this simplification of the very process for drawing up a prospectus will greatly contribute to the further development of the capital and resuscitation market, simply, and this area called corporate bonds and generally debt securities. The Property Act has one of the most important changes, i.e. that the period of validity of the market value or the assessment of the market value of the immovable property is limited to two years. It's kind of a failure that we've seen from the previous period and we want to change it. I don't think it's a good idea for you to sell and alienate property without an estimate of the value of five or six years old. This way we define that two-year term. So if the estimate of the value is two years old, we have the right to alienate property, if it's older than that, it's got to be a new estimate of value. It's a simple introduction of order. On the other hand, the deadline for applying for registration of public property rights when it is an autonomous province and for units of local self-government is extended until the end of next year. It was a requirement of units of local self-government due to the crown, due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, they simply couldn't complete this process of enrolment of public property that was defined by the end of this year. This way we meet them and it will be over by the end of next year. The last law is the draft law amending the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for public media services. This suggests that the amount of tax be increased by 44 dinars, i.e. to be 299 dinars, instead of the current 255 dinars. This is the 12 laws, honourable MPs, which are before you today. For the next five or six, we'll discuss them tomorrow. I'd like to share three news with you at the end of my address. We paid sectoral aid yesterday for all those businesses and entrepreneurs in the area of hospitality and tourism, that's about 12,000 businesses, about 75,000 workers, so I want to tell you, and of course to all of them, that their accounts are open, that money is paid in their account and that I invite them to use that money. These are dedicated accounts that will be opened by February 15th next year, so I urge them to use this sectoral assistance. Also, let me remind you, with this help, with the payment of this minimum profit, this is the sixth minimum wage, the sixth minimum earnings paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for this sector. So three minimum earnings at the beginning of the year, two minimum earnings of 60% and here's another one, and I'll remind you, this is just, in a way, the ninth month, if we're looking at March of the month, the pandemics and the difficulties they have in doing business when it comes to the coronary virus. So, since nine months, six months the state has covered minimum earnings and all employees. I think it's a huge contribution to their survival. Of course, we're tracking what's going on, but this is kind of my answer to some of the thinking and criticism I've heard, which is that help isn't enough. So six out of nine months. Whether or not it will show the time ahead, but I think the state of Serbia has shown its seriousness and its willingness to help everyone when this assistance is most needed. Another important news is that the money is prepared for Thursday, so Thursday, all of our oldest citizens, all pensioners, millions and 717 thousand pensioners, as President Vukic promised, will receive one-time cash aid of 5,000 dinars. So on Thursdays and Fridays, those who get mail, that is, by mail. So, we have fulfilled this promise, and this is the crown of our efforts and our economic programme this year -- over 700 million dinars we have set aside to help the economy, to help those who are most vulnerable, to help the citizens of Serbia. I think we did a decent job. On the other hand, the very fact that our GDP, our economy, will have the slightest decline this year throughout Europe, is about the success and good target of these measures. Finally, last news for you, last night, Standard and Purs Agency, one of the world's three largest credit rating agencies, issued a new report on our country's credit rating. So, it kept it stable, with a chance or a positive outlook, so that the Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries in the world that did not have a credit rating drop during this year. If you carefully read what they wrote in their report, the measures we took to support our economy were timely, they were determined and we did not in any way endanger macroeconomic stability. So our public debt is completely under control, well below 60%, which is Mastricht level. On the other hand, we've singled out over 700 million dinars to help our economy this year. So we did the right thing this year. This year, we end up with the smallest GDP drop in Europe, we end up with a public debt relative to a GDP that is completely under control. So, the biggest economic crisis in the world we ever end up still stable, firmly on both legs, it's very important, with the help we've provided and as one of the few countries whose credit rating hasn't been reduced, and I think it's a great success for the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of our country, but primarily for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much. I'm staying at your disposal for the questions you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1550	Thank you. Reporters of the committees responsible, Aleksandra Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1551	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, obviously the Ministry of Finance is a bearer of good news when it comes to economic measures and the life of our citizens in these difficult times. What I'd like to say is that yesterday we had a session of the Committee that included 15 laws that would be on the agenda this week, but that Friday we had a public hearing about the Digital Property Act and fiscalization. The public hearing was attended by two State Secretarys and three Assistant Ministers, from the National Bank of Serbia Vice-Government and the Director of the Legislatives Directorate, as well as the President of the Securities Commission, representatives of the Tax Administration, the Business Chamber of Serbia and two NGOs in front of the National Convention, who simply followed all the chapters that were current in the negotiations with the EU and those two NGOs that mainly follow the part when these legal solutions were concerned, all the issues and concerns they had in relation to these new laws raised questions and received adequate answers. I would like to say that it is of great importance and great honor for us to participate as MPs when it comes to the adoption of these innovative laws, such as the Digital Property Act. Serbia will be the first country to pass such a law when it comes to Southeast European countries, regulate the market, prevent crime in this area, fight money laundering, and open up on the other hand the possibility for all those young people we call frillers, who deal with this topic, to enter certain legal flows and ultimately invest. We heard in that public hearing that over 90 investors, which are foreign, which domestic, are actually interested in making such a law and that it will actually be the driver of a new investment process and above all this is one big step when we talk about modernization when it comes to new models of financial instruments. When we talk about the Fiscalization Act, we had as a state the application of a new fiscal register law since 1.1.2005. Since then, we have virtually no solution to many of the problems that have arisen in this area by modernising practically both the Tax Administration and the functioning of the entire economy in this fiscal sense, I think we have this Fiscalisation Act and since there have been two public debates in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in November we think that in the best and most appropriate ways the Ministry responded with this law. Of course, the application goes there, that the country needs to be prepared for a year to apply these laws, but I think it is of great importance that today we talk about Serbia's future in this completely new way and that we show that we are going to step up with all the innovations and when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic came to the head of government in 2016 and talked about digitalisation, many did not understand what this is wearing when it comes to the legislative framework. We now have the results of this process and the digitisation process, and I think the citizens of Serbia will benefit greatly when it comes to these legal solutions that we are going to discuss this week and which we are going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1552	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Shaip Cambery, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1553	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look only at the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Of course, as is the law that is in line with the international fight against terrorism, against one global evil, we also see the involvement of the Republic of Serbia to that end. In principle, we have nothing against the law. What leaves us doubt, which is how this law will apply in practice in a situation where the trust of the institutions that will implement it is at some low level. A general picture of democracy in Serbia for minorities, especially Albanians who are being satanized daily and who are considered some on-call terrorists, leads us to justifiable doubt that the law will be applied? How will it apply also to political inexperience, opposition, civil society organisations? In the last year, the state of the institutions of democracy in the Republic of Serbia has gone a long way backwards. The held elections this year can be seen as the most controversial since 2000, according to the Belgrade Open School Report, which was held in co-operation with the Kingdom of Sweden. A year marked by an emergency in which parliament was not unjustly meeting. The reimbursement of the institution did not miss international observers, Freedom House, in 2019, for example. He placed Serbia in a partially free country, instead of a free country, and in 2020 he defined Serbia as a transitional hybrid regime in his transition index. Although access to the European Union remained the main foreign policy objective of a single declaration by state officials during the state of emergency, they have had a serious impact on the collapse of citizens' confidence in the European Union. For example, a statement by President Vukic about eternal and steel friendship with China or that there is no European solidarity, that it is just a fairy tale. The space for the operation and development of civil society organisations continues the trend of narrowing down, the same report concludes. Taking into account the recorded pressures on researchers, activists and journalists, the backdrop was also marked by the International Civil Society Organisation "Civikus" which is a space for the operation of the OCD, meaning the Civil Society Organisation in Serbia as being distracted. Serbia is set in line with countries with the most serious obstacles to the free operation of civil society organisations. The most serious attempt to threaten freedom took place at the end of July this year when the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism asked business banks for data on the financial transactions of 37 organisations and media and 20 individuals. The public is under the impression that it is a process of persecution and intimidation of 275 civil society organisations. This is the occasion of the OSCE mission, the US Embassy, the European Commission, the Citizens' Protector announced control of the legality of this check. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, the trend continues in Serbia in 2020. According to the latest report, Reporter Without Borders, it holds 93 seats. The lowest position since 2013 and the drop of 30 seats. The report says that Serbia has become a country in which it is often dangerous to be a journalist and that false news gets visibility and popularity at an alarming rate. Freedom House for 2020 estimated that Serbia is undermining the freedom of the media by lack of transparency of ownership over the media, as well as high censorship that characterizes it. Therefore, because of all this, our legitimate suspicion is the impartiality of the application of this law. Otherwise, in principle, I said at the beginning that this global fight against a global evil like terrorism, we have nothing against in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1554	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1555	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to ask you at first, if possible, that I am aware that the end of the year and that a large number of laws by nature of things are coming to us in the Assembly, but I think it would be much easier to function if at least in that united debate, the number of laws would be smaller. Right now, we have 14 laws. All 14 laws are good and each of them deserves attention and time to get to know everyone in the tananas. The most important, in my opinion, of all the 12 laws on the agenda are the first two laws, which is the proposal for a law on digital property and a bill on fiscalization. What's interesting about this room we're in, that besides the national features that are visible here, there is a character called Ivo Andric. I remember every time we got some new laws here to parliament, the way Ivo Andric presented it in his part "On the Drina Cupria" in one particular way, about how lightly modern laws wanted-not to come to the territory we live in. In line with that, I mean first of all the Digital Property Act, I must of course notice that as the minister just said, the world's simple trends and rapid changes cannot leave Serbia to be a desert island and it's good if we took the initiative to be among those countries that are among the first to introduce this law. As a member of the Finance Committee, I was present yesterday on the Committee, and there was also an associate of Mr. Cynthia Malloy, who made a real effort to make sure that all our questions were answered in detail. I only noticed one thing, though perhaps because this is a new substance, so it personally gives me such an impression, but that very often one thesis was going through, which is possible malversions. What is good today, and on the agenda, which we have several amendments and additions to other laws that are just being treated that, as people have said, there is a possibility. Of course, this is a new law, we have to, not only help vote this law, but try and when it goes into application of this law, we're looking for everything that we may have missed, and personally I don't think the laws that are on the agenda today are going to let anything not get through here. What's very important is that the National Bank of Serbia is in charge of virtual currencies, and the Securities Commission is in charge of digital tokens. I personally, when it comes to the National Bank of Serbia, absolutely have full confidence, I think what they have managed to do with the course of the dinar. Since I'm in 1975, ever since my generation remembered, there's been a lot of turbulence in this country. Now, for the first time, we may have entered a peaceful period, a few years, a stable period, so that everyone can make a plan and easily engage in some business, etc. When it comes to the Securities Commission, I ask you ministers to explain to me that only part, how has it come to this division that digital tokens are being monitored, and I would like to ask you, since we have not been able to reach any approximate percentage of the amount, there is also an increase in the growth of the Belgrade Stock Exchange since it is certainly due to the situation in which the stock exchange is being put to sleep, I am free to say so, but it is a great announcement from colleagues who are in your portfolio and in the media that is expected to grow in the work of the Belgrade Stock Exchange. I wonder if you might be able to estimate some expected value in nominal terms when it comes to digital tokens, what is it that awaits us specifically? The next law is a bill on fiscalization. It's one process we started, i.e. Some of us before started it in 2005 and there was absolutely no way to apply the law so far. It's just now that I think we're putting, as they say, the cream on the cake to make all of this make sense. What has prevailed in public, and you have explained it today, is what kind of new imposition or cost to have bonds that have to have fiscal cash registers. They won't have any coercion, if I understand you as well. The state has identified over three billion funds that should serve as a subsidy to facilitate the introduction of these digital technologies, and that these fiscal double tapes that have been kept and generated additional costs, etc. are going back in history. So, as far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, we will certainly support this law. The following is the Return Act taken away from property and compensation. When it comes to restitution, I come from Vrnjačka Banja, Vrnjačka Banja is the place where the largest nationalisation is done in proportion to the number of inhabitants and territories we cover. They're certainly citizens from a place where I come from more than interested in getting rid of all this. As far as I can see, with these changes and additions, this process is speeding up. As for the addition of the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, unlike my colleague who just spoke, I consider this to be an excellent law and that this is a law that has to be constantly harmonised, controlled and monitored. I note, that's what I just said, it's a simple alignment, first of all with the Digital Property Act. When it comes to supplementing the Excise Act, here's what I find interesting, what I find. In particular, this treats cigarettes and we have this increase in the next five years per dinar and a half, which, realistically speaking, is not some big amount. I, as a former smoker, as they say, are the worst ex-smokers, I always draw attention to everyone, and I tell everyone -- people, this if it creates a load, we just have to discipline ourselves and leave all the cigarettes together at the end. So, the death toll from Kovid in 2020 is about 16 million. It's official data. The number of cigarettes died, believe it or not, is five million, and of alcohol two million 400, etc. So, personally, I think that, as a country where we have cheaper cigars than people in the environment, we can accept this as an absolutely justified thing. The next law that is before us is now the Law establishing public interest in special procedures for expropriating the issue of a building permit to regulate the project "Belgrade on Water". As someone who comes from the interior, when I had a chance to talk to the Belgrade-borns about this law and at all about the "Belgrade on Water" project, I was right to tell you, I was confused, one part of them said it was a total failure, from the fact that the criticism was massive. I had the chance to walk the coast for the first time a few months ago with my family and, frankly, I'm more than positively surprised. If anything good could happen to Belgrade, it is certainly the project "Belgrade on Water". First of all, you have made an excellent tourist content, and I, as someone who comes from a tourist resort, repeats from Vranjska Banja, I am happy and look forward whenever I see that some new tourist content is included in Serbia's tourist offer. I have always praised Mr. Dragan Markovic Palm, who is also the president of my JS parliamentary group, when in Jagodina, who, no offense, was here and my colleague Starcevic, was not a tourist spot, was above all an industrial centre. But with some motivation, good vision and desire, it is also possible from a city that had nothing to do with tourism to build a tourist town. Now we all stay together to have more and more of these content and to try only who will have more and more guests. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property, I will also refer to your last visit, if I may say so, in the Assembly, when I spoke on this subject and I gave you a good proposal. First of all, I like it here that you have defined the deadline for local self-government, municipalities and cities to which they must finally complete this one process that is necessary to complete as soon as possible. You gave them the deadline of December 31st, 2021. I continue to argue that a good proposal is to create one software, one central database where absolutely all these assets will be available to all Serbian citizens. Of course, anyone in the ministries or local self-government can make it easier to work. We're going to have a realistic assessment of that value at last, so it's not the state's duty to take a commitment to any loan where local self-government or city administrations have taken over, so to speak, conditionally and they take some risks. The next law is the Law on temporary arrangements for how to charge taxes for public media services. Of course, like every serious country and Serbia, there is media service, national television. It's something without which serious countries can't function anyway. I agree that competition should exist. We have several national channels, those economic operators who have been given the opportunity to cover their frequencies with the entire territory of the state. We certainly can't ignore those regional televisions, local televisions that deal more with people's problems in the locations they live in. When it comes to RTS, we had a chance to see when this pain with Kovid and the crown started that RTS was very fast and very well organized to be able to continue at a distance when it came to our founding and high school students. So RTS 3 and RTS planets and other resources were absolutely very quickly put to service all these students. What I can freely say, I can resent people who are dealing with editorial policy, of course I have no influence on what they are doing, is that if it is this representation of RTS, I who belong to Unique Serbia, I have to point out, we are a parliamentary party, a parliamentary party only from our establishment and it is simply amazing that the president of JS has not received a single invitation, to be honest, I can't say how many years ago, that he is visiting RTS. Of course, we don't mind supporting this law, because we are aware of all the obligations that RTS has. These other laws, as you ministers said, are mostly consent. I can also commend the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. What is very important for our economy, besides everyone, is free to say, the subsidies and aid packages that we as a state, above all you as a ministry had towards the economy, should certainly be praised and this situation that now more of the untaxable income is not 16.300 but is 18.300. Of course, that is not, as you said, the ultimate aid to the economy, you will continue to follow their trends in line with the situation we are in and to make it easier for them. As far as I'm concerned, I'd just ask you, if it's not a problem, to the first question I asked when it comes to the Digital Property Act to get an answer. Certainly, as so far, for all that is good when it comes to citizens of Serbia, and these laws and amendments of these laws are, the JS parliamentary group will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1556	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Sinisha Mali has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1557	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, an apology on my part, when I just read the list of laws that are in today's session, I failed to mention two that are also very important. Let me point that out, Mr. Vujic, before I answer your question. So before you are also the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit to implement the Belgrade water project. Therefore, the deadline related to the application for expropriation is extended until 14.04.2022. The reason is a simple, inability to implement them during the pandemic of the coronary virus. What's last in front of you at today's session, and very important, is the Agreement on joint procurement of medical resources. As finance minister, in April of this month I signed the agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is very important to us, because through this agreement we are getting, and after the ratification of this agreement is adopted in Parliament, we will get the property of a full member. So, right after the adoption, we also inform the European Commission. For Serbian citizens, it is very important for all of us because this means that we will participate together in the procurement of medical equipment, medicines. So we'll get certainly lower prices. On the other hand, we will have access to all bodies, advisory institutions, etc. when it comes to the quality of the drugs, the quality of the equipment, so the quality of our decisions when it comes to getting them will be much better. So, this agreement is also very important. We're a great success, if I may put it that way, in these difficult times we've made. We have been fighting from day to day for the lives of Serbian citizens since March of the month, we are also fighting on the front which is related to the fight against, that is, the rescue of our economy and the support of our economy, and on the other hand we are fighting for both health and the lives of our people. I think we've also done a great thing about equipping hospitals and getting the necessary medications, the necessary equipment. On the other hand, Kovid Hospital in Batajnica was built in just four months. An incredible venture, I think, for any country in the world other than China. It opens in a few days and Kovid hospital in Kruševec. So, new capacities, another confirmation of our ability to make the capacities we need in a quick and efficient way. I've talked about it a few times today, the strength of a country is measured not only by the strength of the economy, as it may have been just eight months ago, but also by the strength of the health system, the resilience of the health system to the crisis. Our system has proved resilient. The state reacted in the right way when the respirator was also purchased, if you remember, in terms of additional equipment and drugs and equipment for our medical workers, with their great gratitude we managed to find space and raise their salaries by 10% in April and a one-time aid of 10,000 dinars and now again since January 5% increase for our medical workers. Thank you very much to our heroes and another thank you to all citizens of Serbia. We've shown great unity, we've shown great solidarity, we've shown how real we are when it comes to the crisis that in a unique, common way we come out and win this monster called the coronary virus. Mr. Vujic, you've had a few questions that are very important. Of course, when it comes to “Belgrade on Water, ” I am glad that you have had the opportunity to walk and see what it looks like. It's not just one construction facility, it's for us a symbol of change, a symbol of change since 2013, to show that some things can and can be implemented to the end, that we can attract an investor, that we can do something that's been standing completely and undeveloped as the ugliest part of the city for decades. So, from the barracks, the rats, the snakes, over there, that cemetery of ships, if you remember what it was, rusted with tons of garbage that accumulated, so that's the past. We had this opportunity and the ability to build the largest construction site in this part of Europe, there already for thousands and thousands of workers, living thousands and thousands of families, and that is a great pride for all of us, and of course by this project we have completely pushed our entire economy forward. After all, we continue to do so because it remains one of the largest construction sites in this part of Europe, if not the largest. Of course, the largest in Serbia. Your question concerns the Digital Property Act. So there were two questions. One is related to the responsibilities of the Commission for Papers of the National Bank, and the other is more generally about the extent of the assessment of the size of that market or the number of companies participating in it. On the second question, it's hard to judge at this point. That's why we're passing a law that in some way and companies that do it, and maybe we don't recognize them or we don't see them, will go into legal flows. So that's very important. It is estimated that at the world level at this point, the value of the market for crypts is somewhere around 750 billion dollars, but what is much more important is that by 2027, the value of that market will be 1,750 billion. So, huge growth in just a few years. This market is normally the most connected to the market of these innovative companies, the Start-up companies, etc., the most used by younger generations. I just expect even greater growth in this regard and then it would be pointless to see that there is another way of financing, another way of carrying out transactions, without Serbia being part of it, of course with the regulation that is written in this law so that these parties will see the effects of this law. Whatever they are, they'll be positive. So, let's make it one company, so we did it, but I think it's going to be a lot more. Why? Because, and that's the answer to your second question, so you have the difference between what the property is and what the currency is. Cryptocurrency or payment method is something regulated by the National Bank of Serbia. When investment tokens are at stake, so it's a show of action, or a share show, it's already property, and then we've shared competences so the Securities Commission also takes care of property, while the National Bank of Serbia takes care of something that is its original jurisdiction, which is currencies, dinars and I say those means of payment. That's the only reason for that division, where, what's very important if you look at the potential of market development. You've got innovative companies, maybe a little bit of a digression, but just so we understand, you have innovative companies that are hard to come up with traditional sources of funding, let's say someone who has an idea, a bank, and says I need a loan, the question is whether they're going to get it, maybe there's no history, maybe no business plan, or it's hard to assess the effects of a business plan when it's a new idea. There is much easier to fund through these innovative, or digital technologies, or through these crypts, which, if you add and look at how it would work and how it works in other countries. So, you have an idea, there's an opportunity for someone to invest in your company, to find money to realize your idea, if you succeed in it in the next year, two, three days, then you're already opening up the possibility, so on. traditional funding for you, so you can go to the bank or go to the stock market, or how to get some money to go on and on. It's that "over effect" style. So, an effect that simply comes from alternative innovative ways of funding, as this company grows, and you have countless of these companies that are created from day to day, young new people, new ideas and so on and then slowly move into more traditional forms of funding, and that's why we want to give young companies the opportunity to go. So, the hardest thing to do is go. The hardest thing to do is to provide these first 1,000 dinars, or millions of dinars, or as long as they need to go into business, and then as they go, as they grow, as they see the effect of their ideas, then banks and others, more traditional sources of funding are interested, and then you give someone the opportunity to grow and develop. This also supports new employment, extends the development of the entrepreneurial spirit, new ideas, innovation and all that is ultimately the future of any growth and development of any economy, including Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1558	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1559	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today's presentations will begin, firstly, with amendments and additions to the Law on temporary payment of fees for public media services. These changes are unpopular in public, but I'll try to explain in the next few minutes why these changes are justified. Unpopular is all about price increases. There's a particular increase in tax for 44 dinars here. Although it's 44 and it's unpopular. I'll bring out the future 299 dinars, but we think that this increase is necessary, that it's justified and I'll try to explain on a picturesque case why we need a public service, why we need to invest constantly in a public service and secure its funding. About two months ago, I saw a show on RTS that a twenty-four-year-old young man answered exactly 21 questions. He fascinated the public with his own knowledge. Afterwards, he was represented in the media, and with that knowledge for his team in the quiz, he provided a total amount of money, i.e. a reward of slightly less than 2,000 euros. So one quality education, an obvious intelligence, and the value of that was, say, less than 2,000 euros in cash. On the other hand, we have reality programs where the winners of these realitys win up to 50,000 euros and if we take money as a parameter and put knowledge, education and intelligence on the one hand, on the other hand, the participants are realizing programs for which I can say the least about where there are inappropriate behaviours, and inappropriate dictionaries, is it possible that knowledge and education are worth 25 times less than promoting values that are not traditional for our society to express myself in the least possible way possible. In this case, the answer to the question is whether we need quality public service and whether we need to invest constantly in public service? Obviously it's necessary. To be clear, I don't mind private television. Everyone has a choice. Everyone has the ability to shut down TV once on a remote control, change the program. It's a choice of each individual. But it is obvious that public service must take care of the general interest of every citizen, unlike commercial television, from private media, which are managed by profit. Therefore, the public service priority is to create, or create, a quality program and that such a programme is always an alternative to which we can count. It is therefore important to ensure a stable financing of public service, and I will remind you that the tax paid on behalf of the public service is among the lowest in Europe. Unlike private media, public service is founded by the public, funded by the public and controlled by the public. Public service as such plays a role in bringing into human homes the best of human knowledge, the best of education, and setting standards of good taste. Unlike the commercial media, the public service has an obligation to take care of the protection of children and young people, their psychophysical development, has the obligation to broadcast a program concerning both sick and disabled persons, not to discriminate against anyone on any basis, either on a full, ethnic, religious, professional basis. The public service has an obligation to allow discussions on all issues in society and as such to be a resilient point of democratic communication in our society. It should produce the highest quality programmes that must be made available to every citizen under equal conditions. It must not be political, religious or culturally unilateral. All social groups, rich and poor, and people with certain disabilities, and the majority population and minority population must have the possibility of communication through public service. These are the standards of the successful functioning of every public service in any developed democratic state in Europe and the world. When we talk about funding today, it is important to point out that the main source that provides the existence of public service is some kind of public income. In the world, several such examples are known. Whether it is a payment of TV subscription, electricity tax, state budget financing or some kind of donation, but in any case we must not deny the right to commercial sources, from advertising, because it is an additional source of income that provides the self-sustainability of each public service. I'll remind you that in the world, only two public services could survive and have a quality program without commercials. It's the British BBC and the Japanese En-Ha-Ka. Everywhere in the world, there is evidence of a general fall in ethical standards, and it seems to me that there has never been a greater need for ethical education than in this world where we live. Many think that ethics and the media can't even be in the same sentence, but I claim that ethical journalism, or journalism that doesn't have ethics in it, doesn't deserve that name. Public service must be in a position to meet the needs of all citizens and therefore it is on public service and a greater responsibility to adhere to these ethical standards. In particular, this refers to a programme designed for young people, who still take a special place in our culture. The young audience is a very sensitive audience, and when the media sends messages to young people, these messages must be carefully selected. Such messages affect the formation of youth attitudes, influence the formation of a view of the world of young people, and that is why the media must assume their share of responsibility. It is up to us to cultivate a public service, invest in it, promote it, because it must be a leader star in one world, in a sea of media that are ready and to display inappropriate content all for profit. Unfortunately, public service when we speak in a political context is always spoken of at the time of the pre-election campaign on political reporting. Political parties often know that they blame public service as an excuse for their own failure in some elections. Political parties also know that they are pressing public service to have as much space as possible to be represented at public service. As far as the SDPS is concerned, we always represent the view that public service must have one fair, balanced and impartial approach on this issue, but also, on the other hand, we must point out that there are far more important issues to be addressed by public service. It is, above all, the quality of the programme relating to sensitive groups, a quality cultural programme. It is a promotion of sport, promoting healthy life, or promoting all those values that are characteristic of a decent society. The public service's desire to maintain quality in its programmes is really compromised by market laws, where commercial media has become easily available, cheap, come to every viewer and listener, and it is obvious that in such an atmosphere public service is necessary for all of us in the future. One of the most problematic ethical dilemmas of anyone working in the media is the question of inappropriate content, an inappropriate dictionary, especially as it applies to children who are exposed to it, who can listen to it and watch such programs. Public service must adapt to social change, but we must also never forget that public service must serve the interests of citizens in the best possible way. There are new laws on the agenda. One of them is the Digital Property Act. With this law, we define clear rules and give legal certainty to those who trade digital assets, but in this way we also send a message that Serbia is becoming a state of financial technology. This is a good way to introduce this digital property sphere into legal flows, that anyone who deals with this kind of transaction settles his obligations to the state. The regulators, which are the Securities Commission and the NBS as a central bank, will now monitor developments in the digital property market and, if they see some manipulative actions, have the opportunity to react in accordance with the law and to prevent such negative phenomena that may occur on the digital property market. The passing of this law will allow digital property to be traded on a regulated market, in the Belgrade Stock Exchange, and I believe that the aim of such a law will also be to encourage and motivate other market competitors to participate in the stock market. When we talk about virtual currencies, they were first recognized in our legislation in 2017 through a law relating to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and then the NBS had some control over that segment of business, so we can't say that there is no experience. Actually, behind the NBS is a three-year experience in this area. It is important to distinguish that this proposal for a virtual currency law does not equal treatment as a dinar. So they're not officially a means of payment. The National Bank of Serbia does not broadcast them and is not guaranteed by a single public administration body, but the currency crypt can be used as an exchange agent under certain clearly prescribed legal conditions. An innovative solution is envisaged and it is called acceptance of digital assets, or virtual currencies. What does that mean in practice? So every legal person, every entrepreneur has to have his own current account, which is dinar, so it's being paid in dinars. However, they can sign a contract with the service provider that is licensed. When selling its goods, the seller may use the crypto currency, or virtual currency, as a means of exchange, by going through a licensed service provider, which converts that virtual currency into dinars and in this form through dinars is paid to the end-user, i.e. the buyer. That way we continue to protect the dinar as the only legal means of payment. Financial institutions cannot express their capital in virtual currencies, and this is clearly defined by this law. The reason is obvious. It is simply impossible to assess the value of the assets of the financial institutions of banks in continuity if they would express their assets in virtual currencies. I'm going to set an example of bitcoins, as the most popular virtual currency. Its value in 2016 was 700 dollars, at the end of 2017 was 20,000 dollars, in 2018 3,000 dollars, in 2019 7,000 dollars, and now the value is $18,000. This is a good example of how virtual currency is moving and how unstable its value can be on the market and it is therefore justified that financial institutions cannot display their value in virtual currencies. The possibility of investing in investment tokens has been left, which can contribute to the development of alternative sources of funding. A portal will also be created where all those involved in certain transactions in this area will be able to request a response from the NBS and the Securities Commission when we talk about digital property. In one effective procedure, they can get that unique response on time. There will be no conflict of jurisdiction, as both the NBS and the Securities Commission are clearly defined by this law. This law harmonizes with the standards relating to the data that monitors each transaction, i.e. this is data on the users themselves of transactions, i.e. the address of digital property and it is important and it is about not being anonymous in this area, that the anonymity that has been present so far simply goes into the past, and this is also related to the law relating to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. There's also been compliance with FETF standards. It's an international body dealing with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It's this new law and amendments to the law that we're in line with the world's standards. We will be assessed how much progress we have made in this area, how coordinated our legal framework is, and I am sure we will get a good grade, because I think this way we regulate our regulatory, or our market in an adequate way. It is important to coordinate the regulation in order to cut off terrorist funding channels. We are witnessing a recent terrorist attack in Vienna, before that was in Brussels, Paris, and there is hardly any place in Europe that we can say is safe. That is why it is important to align our laws with the laws of other countries, to perform together in the fight against terrorism, to have security services co-operate with other countries, and thus to cut funding channels for terrorist actions in time. There's another new law on the agenda. It's a fiscalization law and it's conditioned primarily by the development of new technologies. We introduced fiscal equipment a decade ago and a half ago. It's just that time has passed, technology has evolved, and it's necessary, so the data from the field shows, to bring legal standards into line with technology development. We expect this law and its goal is to contribute to curbing the grey economy and contribute to effective control and tax collection. Finally, I will say just one more thing about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. For us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, this is very important. There's an increase in the untaxable share of the profits. The state has thus fulfilled its promise and in September it was agreed at the Socio-Economic Council session to increase the minimum profit, I think, by 6.6% and with that raise will be entered in the coming year. The state has fulfilled its promise. We're making a good balance. Everyone's sticking to the deal. Minimum earnings will go up. The state will meet the businessmen, relieve them to a certain extent so that they can operate at the level of the same activities as before. This is a good message from the state, not only when we talk about this increase in minimum earnings, but also when we talk about any future agreement between employees and employers and the state as a guarantee of respect for the agreement. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for any proposed changes and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1560	Thank you. The next is Vice-President of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1561	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, are they next to the frillers and so on. Gasterbackers owe taxes on the income of citizens in the country? In recent days, it has been possible to read in the media the fact that they are also Serbian residents, our temporary workers abroad, and Serbian taxpayers. But we in SVM interpret it differently and firmly believe that it wasn't really the intention of the state. The frillensers were actually the ones who told them that they were obliged to pay both the gasters, i.e. those who had a residence or apartment and a family in the Republic of Serbia. However, as I said, we in SVM interpret it differently. I believe that you, Mr. Minister of the Ministry of Finance, interpret differently and think that our citizens working abroad can be exempt from paying taxes on the income of citizens or part of that tax here, if in a country where they work tax on their salary, or income, and Serbia with that country has a signed agreement on avoiding double taxation. We are aware that Serbia has signed agreements to avoid double taxation when we talk about EU member states, with 26 EU member states. It is easier to say that Serbia is the only country with which it is not only Portugal. There are agreements on the avoidance of double taxation which provide for the application of the exemption method. Under these agreements, our residents have no obligation to pay income tax in Serbia on the basis of profits made by foreign employers in the countries with which such agreements have been concluded. Officially, both the Gustrabiters and those who go to work across borders every day, to another country, for example, those who go to work in Hungary on a daily basis and live in Serbia, would be the bonds, because they are Serbian residents, but it is not the intention of the state to tax those people who are paid abroad, but rather the commitment to tax those to whom payments are coming to Serbia. This question is extremely important for us, for the duchy Hungarians, and therefore I really ask you, Mr. Minister, to answer us and to clarify this dilemma. The fact is that a number of our citizens, meaning the duchy Hungarians, live in the north of Vojvodina, and work, go to work daily in Hungary, and some of them, we don't know the exact number, but there are those who are on temporary work in Western European countries, so in Western European countries. My colleague, Djevanović, Daniel, will later, when the debate takes place on the list of speakers, speak more closely on this subject, but I would certainly ask you to use your regular presence here so that you, as the author of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Income Tax, simply clarify this and, if I may say so, to calm the citizens, to clarify the situation, to calm people down. Because because of speculation, I say, mainly because of the frillers, their statements, the media's certain sensational headlines, people, perhaps rightly, are afraid they'll be double taxed. In the remaining time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, I will talk about two other draft laws on amendments and additions, on extremely important topics for the Vojvodina Hungarians. Namely, the proposed amendments and additions to the Return Law of the seized property and the compensation are in line with the recommendations of the European Commission Report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession process for 2020 in the part relating to the need for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a proposal for the Agency for Restitution, a proposal for a coefficient and a methodology for calculating the cash compensation. In order to plan, to determine the amount of money needed to pay the compensation advance, then the compensation that does not exceed the amount of 1,000 euros, as well as to plan the amount of issued bond emissions for each subsequent year, it was indeed necessary to amend the Reimbursement Act, the compensation that is now in front of us, which we certainly welcome. To date, the Agency for Restitution has rightly completed about 80% of the procedures required for the refund of the assets in respect of natural restitution and only about 10% in respect of compensation. The Agency for Restitution has not begun to adopt a solution on the level of compensation for a very simple reason, which has not so far established a compensation coefficient that, of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine after the adoption, adoption of these amendments and the addition of this law. Indeed, from the fact that the restitution is an important step in overcoming the injustice that has been done by taking away property after the establishment of the new regime after World War II, and that there is indeed no rule of law and rule of law without the protection of property interests and rights, for the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians is a question of the return of property not only part of our party programme or our electoral programme, but also the Coalition Agreement signed recently on 13 November by the President of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, Istvan Pastor, and the President of the SNS, Aleksandar Vukic. The Coalition Agreement specifically states that in accordance with negotiating Chapter 23, respecting the principle of protection of property rights and fair compensation, the process of restitution will continue, especially when it comes to the return of agricultural land and the return of property to churches and religious communities. How much progress has actually been made on this issue in the last eight years is visible when compared to the situation eight years ago, from 2012, and today as we stand, in 2020 or if we just watch what the situation was like at the end of last 2019. Since 2012, when the Agency for Restitution began to receive requests, a total of 75,400 requests have been filed, and by the end of last year, in 2019, a total of 57,700 opinions and first-degree decisions on the recovery of the assets, which means if we look at 75,500 and 57,700, about 77% of the claims filed. When the request for return of the seized property began, the old owners or their successors sought about 100,000 hectares of seized fields, seized after World War II, as well as hundreds of factories, mills, salads, warehouses, bricks, etc. Compared to all the required immovableities, the most problems were, and there are today who are still current with the return of agricultural and forest land, and the current situation around the return of agricultural land is less – more similar in almost all local self-governments, duchy municipalities. According to data available from the Agency for Restitution, the most agricultural land was returned to the municipality of Backo Topola, further Kikindi, Vienna, Stari Bece, Srbobran, Senti, Novi Knezevic, Zrenjanin, etc. In December of last year, therefore a year ago, it was announced that natural restitution is expected to end in the next three years, and there are still about 47,000 hectares of hurricanes in Vojvodina. The Agency for Restitution has already prepared about 2,500 solutions on the right to compensation, and it is expected that after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws that are before us, which are proposed, there is likely to be an increase in this number of solutions. We in the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians are truly aware that subsequent justice cannot end and fully defile the owners or their heirs, but we believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are one step again, another step towards justice. The next bill I'd like to talk about is the Public Property Act. The reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Public Property are indeed contained in the need to address the shortcomings observed in the current application of this law in the previous years. Therefore, the draft law amends a member who finds that an autonomous province, units of local self-government, public enterprises, companies of capital and their subsidiaries may apply for registration of property rights by 31 December or 2020, or by the end of this current year, given that a large number of these entities have not yet submitted requirements for the registration of property rights in the public record of immovable property and rights over them, which would result in the expiry of that period losing that right. And since the conditions of work of these entities, caused by the pandemic that we are all facing, the world pandemic caused by the Kovid-19 virus and by the introduction of the beginning of the year, or by the end of the first quarter and emergency situation in the Republic of Serbia, were indeed difficult to allow these entities to extend until the end of the following year or until 31 December 2021. So, these proposed amendments to the Law on Public Property now, we must say, for the seventh time in the past nine years, extends the time limit for the registration of public property, this time due to the conjecture of unforeseen circumstances and the global pandemic we face. I am sure, on the other hand, that we will all agree that it is more useful to speed up the public property registration process simply and to simplify administrative procedures so as to, as I mentioned, allow autonomous provinces, local self-government units, public enterprises to have their own resources, to gain economic independence and responsibility and to have their own resources. The registration of property rights is important, because of the harmonisation of data that stand, there are in Qatar and data from the field itself, and for the real legal certainty, harmonisation of the legal framework and implementation of a number of laws at the level of units of local self-government, and all of these are, you will agree, the assumptions of new investments and economic development. For years, the state audit institution has found that there is no full description of the property of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government and warns that this introduces legal uncertainty, creates a risk that public property is used inadequately, even if it can be misused. It is precisely an unequal record and lack of public property rights that makes it sad to open some negotiating chapters in negotiations with the EU, the issue of property and the issue of protection of human and property rights, or some progress in this. We know it's part of Chapter 23 that can be so-called. A blocking chapter. It is clear that the process of enrolment of property is going very hard and slow on the ground. I think we should all be realistic and look at the real situation, the many problems that units of local self-government face in this process. The extent to which the registration of public property is, in fact, an important topic is the fact that the EU from IPA projects through so-called so-called so-called IPA projects. the ‘excession’ programme in collaboration with our Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities is funded by projects aimed at strengthening the administrative capacities of local self-government units for entering public property as well as very significant legislation of illegal facilities. In the field, unfortunately, there are still a number of problems, but I would also like to remind you of the question of the state roads of the second order in Vojvodina. Namely, according to the law in the possession of the AP Vojvodina, the state roads of the second order are also. Until the establishment of a public enterprise that would manage the state roads of the second order in Vojvodina, they are managed by the Public Undertaking for the Management of the State Roads "The Ways of Serbia". The AP Property Administration has actually initiated a public property registration procedure for the benefit of the AP Vojvodina on those roads or parts of the route, where possible. In the list of these assets, the administration has again faced a number of problems on the ground, among other things because of the lack of data, because of the cadasteria plots that cross the pathways of the second row, unresolved property-legal relations on a large number of these parcels, overlapping the state path of the second row with the public roads of the Republic of Serbia, and certain parts of these roads have not been built. In an effort to really contribute to the solution of these problems, maintaining the pathways of the second row, SVM again, in its coalition agreement signed with the SNS cited as an important item that for the maintenance, repair and construction of roads in the AP Vojvodina area, a minimum of 20% of the total annual amount planned for the work and business of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and that priority projects of the reconstruction of state roads will be realised in an appropriate proportion, when we look at the entire territory of course of our country of Serbia, and in the area of the AP Vojvodina. So, to sum up, there are really more draft laws on the agenda, but we felt that these topics were extremely important to us. We will, of course, support in the day of voting with our votes any proposed amendments and additions and new draft laws. I'd like to ask a real promoter to calm down not just so-called. Gasterbackers, people who are currently on temporary work in Western European countries, but also our citizens who have hundreds, perhaps thousands, don't really know the exact number, who go to work every day in Hungary and live in the north of Vojvodina, to hear the answer from you, that they can be calm. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1562	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1563	Dear Mrs. Kovac, thank you very much for your presentation. You asked me about this last week. I am sorry that one group that is more involved in politics than the real interests of certain businessmen has ever come up with this idea that has been related to people who work abroad. So, for your information and information from all Serbian citizens and your honourable MPs here, no laws, no regulations have changed for 20 years. For some reason which is obviously related to some political promotion rather than to anything else, some, I will honestly say and responsibly, the irresponsible individuals have triggered that topic. So I have prepared on two sides an explanation for you and for citizens who have the opportunity to travel across the border, to work, etc., but my whole explanation comes down to one single sentence – those who work abroad are paying taxes and contributions, point. You now have various exceptions, details, etc. So they live in Serbia, taxpayers are also in Serbia, they work in Hungary, they pay taxes and contributions there. There are now some exceptions, but that doesn't change the situation on the ground in any way. So, completely, not to say casually, but there are no amendments to the law. The way they're working today, they're working tomorrow. That's how they've been working for the last 10.15, 20 years, and the law hasn't changed. It is ultimately a regulation that has been recognised everywhere in the world. You now have a topic about tax credits, etc., but this is now a complete detail that is not important for your question and your topic. Once again, Serbian citizens travelling to Hungary are working there to pay taxes and contributions there, point. I hope I've made myself clear. About these other laws and everything you've been saying, let me tell you, first I'm proud of all the people of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the terms of the Crown and the pandemic of the Coronal Virus and all the problems that have been followed, we have managed to bring before you the MPs here with a set of laws that are very serious and that make their contribution in the right way, and the Budget Act that we adopted last week, just as we continue to grow and develop our economy. When it comes to, say, the Digital Property Act, something completely new, something modern, something that should, in the right way, open up some new sources of funding. The fiscalization law, too. You also mentioned the Restitution Act, which is very important. We're not talking about the natural return of property. You mentioned both land and everything. We are talking about that the Republic of Serbia wants to fulfil its obligations and now conditions have been created to complete and cash compensation for all those for which the Agency for Restitution shows and demonstrates that it is necessary to be compensated. I think that's the kind of obligation we do and we show how responsible we are. About the Law of Public Property, I think it's very important that we give these more years to local self-government and the AP Vojvodina, very important to them. I understand, although I am generally against the extension of deadlines, because it usually says that we are not able to do certain things within the deadlines that have been set, but it was really an emergency this year, so an extension of a year I am sure it will be quite enough for them to complete the registration of public property in a manner defined by law. Once again, if you have any more questions, if any of your own requests further consultations on tax treatment or whatever, the Ministry of Finance's doors are open, both us and the IRS. We can always make a special law. It is a matter that is related to communication, to normal exchanges of views and to clarifying any misunderstandings that may arise. I'm sorry that someone political, in any way to you or the people you communicate with, has caused confusion, but in practice or in law nothing has changed and has not changed, I say, for 15, 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1564	I thank the minister. Before the next speaker, just a brief notice. Consensually. 27th and 87th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I now call my colleague Marina Ragush to speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1565	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, above all Serbian citizens, Mrs. Kovac and Mr. Mali have touched in the last few minutes a very sensitive and very important issue that has been a lot of public concerns lately. One section refers to people who have residence in Serbia who work abroad, and of course to contracts to avoid double taxation between our country and countries where they work. Then we had the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to hear the most different interpretations in terms of which amount of tax and how much, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, it seems to me that this is about the net and gross amount of what a man receives by his work. However, there was also an interpretation that I would like you to explain, while you are already there, and it is that there will be a tax difference between a country where a certain person works and a tax base recorded by our country and also concerns certain contributions. The specific question – not all frillers are malicious – are related to frillers. This area is not exactly detailed and precisely arranged for us, and I really welcome the Ministry of Finance's initiative regarding the currency crypt, and I'll talk about it a little later, and I'll try to be as concise as possible. The employer also recognizes the work from home or work at a distance here in Serbia. Frillenseri think their position is even with the position so-called. It's a digital revolution, they don't have to travel anywhere, and, of course, their employers, yes, for their work they pay taxes in their countries and all those taxes that are very important. The problem is how it's written here. What does a refrigerator pay here? Frillenser can be an unemployed person, and then he probably has every obligation in terms of contributions to pension, social and other, and he can also be an employed person who also generates additional income remotely. What am I saying, Mr. Minister, that I don't have a lot of problems in this area? After a public hearing, on Friday, when your team was on fiscalization and digital currency crypt, I got the impression, and I really have to say hello and commend, that this government is going to have a homocentric approach. Here's the thing. Two colleagues from the SNS who really pleasantly surprised me in terms of their specific perspective of access to the problem, and it concerned small businessmen in relation to the large businessmen who now need to enter into this fiscalisation process that would mean additional costs for them and where I was pleasantly surprised by your colleague, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs. Savicic said that they would not work under pressure, if I understood you well then, that there was a process for a year to bring a general legal framework, and that the sublegal act would regulate all other technical issues. It is not quite clear how much costs small businesses will have on the burden, SNS gentlemen have given just this kind of a nice example of poor people in Serbia where a baker hires a son and daughter and for him several hundred euros is a great fortune, and now he has to give some additional burdens. The answer was your team that the state for the first time, and now I come to the essence, that the state for the first time subsidizes those who cannot and introduces an additional cost. If it's a homocentric approach to us, then I'm asking you especially in this digital world, with new digital technologies, we're not cutting anything fast, we're not cutting across our knees, and we're thinking that the man is the center of everything. I finally get to the crypto currency. I'm glad our country is introducing legal flows of cryptic currency based on certain modern technologies. But also, in this digital revolution, we will have further problems that will arise precisely in terms of legislation. With that in mind, without excessively spreading the story, the Serbian Patriotic Union submitted an initiative to form a committee on digitalisation and digital technology as early as September 11th. We have, meanwhile, found a compromise solution, seeing that the European Commission's agenda for the Western Balkans is also a digital agenda, very ambitious, and I think it will be regulated very quickly with us and that the region will be imported, so that we, within the Committee on Education last week, have formed a Committee on Information Society and Digitalisation. This committee was answered by all parliamentary parties that have their members in the Committee on Education, by SNS, the SPS, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and it was indeed a great joy to me, because the problem is recognised and because we are all on the same task, to arrange an area that will serve man. Why? I will mention something that the citizens of Serbia recognize well, especially the younger and middle generation, and I believe all of you. There are giants in Silicon Valley. Now, on the list of the most successful and wealthy companies in the world, they're not oilers anymore, they're giants. They became even richer with the child. They dictate all trends in the economy. Digitalization is there, we're in a digital revolution, digital money is also there, digitization needs to transform everything, raises us to virtual reality, and we're in digital society. We are very likely at the end of this process, especially within the subcommittee I am talking about, to need an ombudsman for digital society. We're gonna have a lot of problems. Why am I telling you this? For example, Ilona Mask, although he is said to be apocalyptic in his statements, etc. But the man on the inside had really the first insight into the way in which and at what exponential speed technologies change, and especially artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is already in our lives. The younger people know that. Every time they try to Google or go to a Google translator, they use virtual assistants. By 2025, Mask predicts, artificial intelligence will be managed by our societies. He, like IT giants, has made huge donations to form a centre that will address precisely the challenges that artificial intelligence brings with it. For example, the idea of the smartest man in the world, she's maybe 100,000 times smarter than he is right now. We can't even reach her. When it comes to model simulation, do you know how many model algorithms can simulate within seconds? So, man is not even a candidate to get close to artificial intelligence. Here's a terrible example, close to us again, with a pig. What at some point, if the algorithm decides that this planet is overpopulated, there's not enough food, and it has all the genetic content as a plate and decides simply to kill two-thirds of the population. Do you think that would be difficult? You wouldn't. There are things today, and we're going to go to it, connected to the Internet. The possibility of technology is perfect, but equally great and the possibility of abuse, of privacy, of hacking accounts, of stealing identities, of terrorist attacks, and of not talking about all other challenges. What's the point? I would like us all to think carefully about what I just touched in my presentation and to understand that what Serbia is now very responsible has started to enter and regulate, that we only understand that it is very important for us to define what our approach is. Is it homocentric, so technology uses man or will technology use us as a means? If he's homocentric, then let's make every effort possible, to make sure that this man in the 21st century has the life of a decent man. One of the ideas of this subcommittee I believe that, Mr. Minister, your team from the Ministry will contact us in the coming period when the public hearings are, precisely because we are all on the same task of making a very complicated and challenging area, but I also believe that it will be necessary for all of us to cooperate interresently in order to improve an area that brings challenges with us that we cannot imagine. In the end, what made me particularly happy was that it still decided not to go quickly, that legal solutions are well thought out, that this is only a general framework when we talk about the Fiscalization Act, that a man who tries to feed his family in poor Serbian villages will be very taken care of. It is also very important for him to be completely calm to have a country behind him and ahead of him that will see his problem and come out to meet his needs, if I understood Mrs Savicic well in public listening. So far, we don't know how many such people there are, but the Ministry will try to make a register of these very people who now have a certain kind of unrest, which is because of the idea or the impression that it's a new imposition without any concrete solutions. So I really have to pass on the impression to all my colleagues, the public hearing that was organized on Friday, for the first time in this session, and it was really very, very productive. Yes, there were dissonant tones, but with one common denominator, all in favor of man, therefore, man is at the heart of everything. And I believe that really this summation, I really have no doubt about it, as this government can see problems from different perspectives, that with dissonant tones and dialogue, but to finally improve all possible areas that pop up at this very challenging time. I'm sorry if I took a little more of your time. In the end, the Serbian Patriotic Union, of course, will vote in favour of packages of these laws with great will to support each of these packages precisely for all of these reasons that I have just touched, but because of the inability to have a little more time, I did not want to bother with further arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1566	Thank you, colleague. The next is Mr. Minister, Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1567	Thank you very much. First of all, the fiscalization bill. I'm glad you noticed it was also public listening. So, for the first time in the assembly of this new parliament. Also, there was a public debate on the law, and I think it is very important that we be absolutely and transparent and that different opinions are heard and that we eventually come out with a bill that makes absolutely sense and that is predominantly in the interests of the Serbian citizens. Also, I would just ask you two or three times you mentioned in your address the issue of economic costs. I will say it again in a simple Serbian language, so there is no cost to the economy. No businessman will have any additional costs related to the introduction of a new fiscalisation system, period. They'll only benefit from that. On one side of the country, of course, they will benefit from curbing the gray economy. Here, they made me here and a brief assessment, and I talked about it at the beginning of my exposure, how much a small businessman or someone who already has an existing fiscal register can save. So under the new law, there will no longer be a need for a regular annual service that costs about 10,000 dinars a year. After the JPRS module, which costs 450 dinars a month, that's 5,400 dinars a year. After replacing a two-year-old chip that cost 12,000 dinars, let's say at an annual level of 6,000 dinars. Savings on a double tape that will no longer be needed, so that white tape, one costs about 50 dinars, now depends on how much tape you spend a month, but here you come to at least 200 euros, 20,000 dinars of monthly savings for whoever has and implements a new fiscalisation system. Not to mention that the market for these fiscal registers will be liberalised this way. You will have confirmations by the Tax Administration of what is and how acceptable it is, but every new system is an acceptable system that will in real time send data to the Tax Administration. So, completely through digitization, modern solutions we introduce a concept that should be acceptable to everyone and is, which is flexible enough, which costs nothing, and on the other hand can only bring savings to those in the economy. That's what we've been thinking about when we've been doing it both in the months and days ahead, we're going to talk more about it, but what's particularly important to me on the other hand, given the short deadlines, relatively short deadlines for the application of this system, we've got a year, we're going to bring all the sublegals by the end of March, and immediately parallel to that, and we're going to go into the application of this law. As far as the cost of the businessmen is concerned, I just want to be clear, Mrs. Ragush. So there's no extra cost to the economy, no. We've got money in the budget, and if it's not enough, we'll set it up. We will return this money within a year literally through the fight against the gray economy of course. When it comes to frillers and gasters like people working abroad, it's not comparable. So, I just said when I talked and exchanged opinions with Mrs. Kovac, you have a smaller group of people who are politically oriented. That's what you see from their statements and everything else, after all, they've also dragged the gasters into this whole story, even though there's no need for it, and there's no basis. There's a huge difference between the frillers. I'm a big fan of the frillers. It's mostly young people who carry out their ideas, it's not even a simple job, but there's a big difference between a gaster and a friller, and it's very simple, the frillers are not in a working relationship. Therefore, the tax treatment of those who are not in employment and those who are in employment and who pay taxes and contribute to their salary as is paid by most of the 2.2 million people in Serbia. What's the problem with the frillers, if you can call them that, I've said it multiple times is who wants to hear it, their obligation was when they started doing business, to organize themselves in the way that tax is most acceptable to them. Many organized themselves to be an entrepreneur where taxes are 10% and pay taxes to their country and thus fulfil their tax obligations. Then there was an association and said, "Yes, it is the tax administration's fault that it did not inform us in time." What can I tell you? About the law that exists in 2003? The law on income tax on citizens? He says - we're not recognized as category. Well, you don't recognize yourself as a category in the Law on Income Tax, but you recognize yourself as a category in the Labour Act, if the legislator accepted it or believes it should. But to take a step back, from where he talks about the friller at all, because one of the comments you've had a chance to hear is why someone hasn't told us before or told us, with my comment that no one had the obligation to tell you, but that you yourself pay taxes, like in all the normal states of the world, which is that only the last year or two days the frillers become, so to speak, a critical mass because there are so many that in the tax administration system they identify as a group to which more attention should be paid. Simply, in 2003 and 2004, the question of how many frillers there were. Right? Here, now, especially because of the crown, work from home, development of IT technology, digitization, etc., you have an increasing number of people who work as frillers. The largest number of them and respects the tax regulations of the Republic of Serbia. It's just that here it's just a matter of self-awareness that when you go into something new, when you're developing a business of your own, it's logical to think about how certain taxes or contributions, or whatever you have to the state, you also respect. That's it. So, I said and I'll say again, I'm ready to talk to them. So we'll talk over the next year, if there's a legal solution that needs to change. I think it's an extremely important category and they have a great potential for growth. It is mostly young people, but there is also one obligation relating to education when it comes to tax regulations. They just need to know that if they're already moving into the development of their business. It's my opinion, which I simply think is logical for both you and everyone else. So, if you start doing business, you always need to hear someone or see what tax obligations are like in every country, including ours. So we'll open the discussion. As you can see, all these laws have been passed for months and months of public debate and reviewing the effects. I can't be irresponsible as a finance minister to change the laws because someone missed something to read or didn't see and change them for tomorrow, because it creates one uncertainty in general in the economic environment. No one wants from businessmen or individuals that laws, especially those relating to tax policies, change from day to day. So we have to have a system long-term approach. On the other hand, I'm completely open to any kind of communication during the next year when we're thinking about new amendments to the law, about new improvements to the system and at the end of the year when I'm here to defend those laws again. Of course we'll sit down with everyone in the meantime. That's just how we've done these laws. Let me tell you, you have from the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, associations, I don't know whether CEM or the Association of Foreign Investors or the Association of Small Businessmen, or whatever they're called, each sends some of their suggestions and ideas, and we look at what's real, what's not real, what are the effects of these changes. So you have to keep some level of revenue in the budget so you can pay both wages and pensions, to build and hospitals, buy medicines and everything else. So these are all decisions that you have to make responsibly, looking at the environment you're in, and considering that your economy has to grow. I think that by reducing the burden on earnings, which goes from year to year, by introducing some new systems, such as e-factures and fiscalisation and encryption and everything, by supporting and encouraging new employees, you have it in these laws, we also extend these subsidies to programmes such as "My First Salary", etc. We really contribute to the development of our economy, to give example and opportunity for young people to get a job, to get a first job. Also, it applies to the frillers and everyone else. I think we've shown ourselves in this crisis as a responsible government, responsible state. Of course, if there's anything we've done wrong, we'll make it right. It's human, who works, and it's wrong, but we're completely open to it. We have to do it in a system way, that and the environment, the economic environment, the businesses, because we live in the economy, it's very important that we listen to them and listen to them by trying, and not only trying, but dating them year after year with concrete suggestions to improve all that. The basic law of the businessmen, when I became finance minister, was to reduce the time of VAT vomiting. It's been over 45 days, and now it's about 20-25. So we're much better, but with the e-facture system, it's going to be zero, it's going to be one day. That was the most important thing to them, whoever I was talking to. Then, of course, there's going to be a cut-off on the profit. Here, for the third year, we've been reducing our income taxes, 1% a year, and the following year, an additional 0.6%. So we're slowly discharging the labour market. We're also suppressing the gray economy. Why would someone hire someone on black, if their taxes and contributions are slowly falling, so they're not so much of an imposition on him? On the other hand, we give opportunities through direct subsidies, such as "My Right Pay", to young people, whether they finished high school or college, to get their first job. So we work actively on the labour market, and when you see our system laws, tax laws, they are more targeted, as years pass, towards the results of work, taxing the results of work, if someone earns a tax pay, etc., and less taxing the work itself, profits. It's a strategic definition, a long-term commitment that we have, and we won't give it up. I think it's very important that you make the most stimulating environment possible. Whoever makes it, he pays the tax part, etc. On the other hand, the person who hires has less and less income burdens, because that's how we encourage employment. The results show that. So, on the one hand, we have the smallest drop in GDP this year in Europe, and on the other hand, our unemployment rate in the third quarter was 9%, and the first was 9.4%. So now it's lower than it was before the coronary pandemic itself. In any case, I remain available for any comments and suggestions. If you need more detail, the entire Ministry and the Tax Administration are at your disposal, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1568	I thank the minister. Marina, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1569	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer, as I expected, and for your good will to see all the problems. I don't think we're aware of them either. And I'm in favor of system solutions, and it's an excellent will for your ministry to open dialogues, to open discussions. We're all here on the same schedule, to sort out certain areas. You've mostly responded to most of my dilemmas, and the biggest one is exactly what our approach is, whether our man is at the center of everything or not, and everything is subject to his standard. I'm just asking you in the future, that when you have both Mrs Savičić and your team, when you have right in mind digital currencies, blockcane technology, everything about digitization, don't forget our Subcommittee on Information Society and Digitalization. We will be very happy to respond to your every call, because, of course, at our address, we get a lot of thinking and we see problems that we weren't aware of, and I believe that together we can come to a solution. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1570	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1571	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers with associates, of course that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed set of legislative proposals in the voting day, but allow me to place an accent in this opening statement on two legislative proposals. It is two new legislative proposals, systematic legislative proposals, a proposal for a digital property law and a proposal for a fiscalisation law. Of course, not downplaying the importance and importance of the remaining legislative proposals, but continuing today's session on these legal proposals, since it is mainly about amendments and additions, some of them are also the result of the adoption of these new systemic legislative proposals, so they will talk about it in the follow-up to today's session of my distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to these two legislative proposals, I'd like to ask the minister a question, but here you are, so you'll tell him. Do you think that when citizens of Serbia follow this transmission they understand what frillers are and what crypts are? When they hear the word frillers and crypts, then we come to that attitude that the Assembly discusses laws that are of less importance and importance. So I ask you to speak in a people's language, that citizens understand us, that we are talking, in fact, about the goals that we want to achieve by adopting these two new legislative proposals that regulate an unregulated area in Serbia. The goals we want to achieve are, among other things, greater revenues in the republican budget, to strengthen and strengthen our economy, curb the grey economy, hence corruption, and from all this, this will be a contribution to making Serbia a more attractive investment destination in the coming period. These are things that, according to counterpart Ragush, a man at the heart of everything, are things that ordinary citizens of Serbia understand. Cryptocurrency, frillers, believe me, the smallest number of citizens understands that. So let's talk about the essence, let's talk about the goals that we want to achieve by adopting these legislative proposals, and precisely because of these objectives, the SPS parliamentary group will support these two legislative proposals in the voting day. Before I move on to the positions of the SPS parliamentary group on these legal proposals, allow me just a few sentences. Thus, it is about legal proposals that have, in the right sense, passed the congregation procedure. It is about legal proposals that were not found by emergency procedure, as the contents of today’s session agenda, but were in the regular procedure. MPs had plenty of time to look at the content of these legislative proposals, to guide suggestions and suggestions or amendments if necessary, as a number of colleagues and colleagues did. I also take the opportunity to commend the chairman of the Finance Committee, the entire Finance Committee, of course, and representatives of the ministry who had an understanding of it. So it is that these two system laws have gone through a public debate and I personally think that public debate is a good practice, that it is an instrument that will improve in a quality way the work of parliament, but that will certainly strengthen and strengthen that control and supervisory function of parliament. You know how, the results, the commitment and the work mostly deny any criticism. I pointed this out on purpose, and I'll tell you why. Facts are being denied by on-call critics. Despite numerous attempts to call on this to date from the moment of the constitution, and I believe that this will also be the case in the period ahead, trying to minimize the role of parliament, trying to degrade and dissuade the work of parliament and MPs and the most negative way to present in public this Parliament has had one intense and dynamic activity since the constitution of Parliament. And when someone says parliament is illegal or illegal, it does not insult us, but underestimates, humiliates and degrades citizens of Serbia, because parliament is the voice of the people, and Serbian citizens have defined in fair and democratic parliamentary elections who will represent them in the republic's parliament. The agenda of the Republic's parliament will certainly not be governed by some quasi-position political elite. I know it would be appropriate for them to be involved in politics, I know it would be appropriate for them to talk to us from the moment of constitution until today about some electoral conditions, because it's a way to try to justify that desperate and losing move of the boycott of elections, but in a period of crisis, in a period when both Serbia and the whole world are facing the biggest health challenge, this Parliament has defined its priorities, defined the dynamics of activity when it comes to work, and certainly the priorities, above all, are citizens' standard of living, growth and development, and the moment we all successfully tackle the biggest health challenge together, then we will discuss the remaining topics. Of course there'll be time for that, too. I think that in the best way, I repeat, from the moment of the constitution to today, in the past month and a half or two, as Parliament, we have given the most adequate answer to the questions raised before the Assembly, as the highest body of the legislative authority, and that we have worked in the best interests of Serbian citizens, I am not interested, I must admit, in the case of on-call critics, whose policy is always based and rests on the issue - the worse in Serbia, the better for us. This assembly showed in the period behind us, and I am convinced that it will also be during the next period of time that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be a symbol of both democracy and efficiency, and transparency, and the public in the work. To go back to the legal proposals. First of all, why the fiscalization law? You, Mr. Minister, spoke in the opening statement, so the Law on fiscal cash registers was passed 15 years ago, and of course there is a need to adapt in electronic business due to the progress of technology and the change of business environment in this area. The new system law, which should also provide for better tax collection, reduces the impact of the grey economy on public finances and prevents abuses, will be possible, as you said for a little while, that through the online system, the tax administration will, in real time, have all the traffic data and I think it is a legal proposal that is good for the state, but that it is also a legal proposal that is good for the economy, will not be a burden on businesses. In addition to what you said earlier, I point out again, for one simple reason, because over the past week, we have had an attempt by some opposition, one part of the opposition to bring panic into the ranks, exactly, of the businessmen, that they will bear a burden when it comes to fiscalization. Of course, the whole burden of fiscalisation is being taken over by the state and the budget for 2021 is being provided, as you said, if they are insufficient, additional funds will be provided in the next period of time and will certainly be paid in a year, up to a year and a half. This should be pointed out in particular, as we should point out, that we disagree, I see that there is a certain criticism in the public why MPs disagree with certain views of independent bodies. The fact that we are having a debate and a cultural debate, the democratic confrontation with the views of independent regulatory bodies, that absolutely does not mean that we want to put any pressure on them, but, as I have repeatedly said, it is a clear redistribution of responsibility, the responsibility of MPs, the responsibility of the government, the responsibility and the tasks of independent regulatory bodies. We do not agree with the position of independent regulatory bodies, specifically the Fiscal Council, that subsidies should not have been allocated, because this is just one of the indicators of how important it is that we singled out the budget subsidies for 2021. Therefore, a new fiscalisation system creates conditions for more effective monitoring and control of taxpayers, which poses a risk of tax avoidance, as well as an increase in tax controls at the tax authority's headquarters, thus reducing the need for field control. The start of application, as you said, is scheduled from 1 January 2022. This is completely justified, in order to bring in the sublaw and the bonds have plenty of time to comply with their business provisions of this law. When it comes to digitisation, i.e. when it comes to the proposal for a law on digital property, I would first like to say that digitalisation is a process initiated in the previous term of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the prime minister in the new exhibition very clearly and explicitly stressed the adoption of legislation that will regulate this unregulated area. In this way, the government shows its commitment to system regulation of this area, and this is certainly the first step in overcoming the situation that exists because of the unregulated framework and demand and industry and the economy to facilitate their business in the digital property area. At this point, this area is governed only by the Law on the Prevention of Money and the Financing of Terrorism. That's certainly not enough. In the light of the legal proposal, you stated that when collecting information with participants in the digital property market, you defined that there are several companies operating on the market, that they are largely unregulated and that this creates practical problems between opening a bank account and applying business, legal, tax, accounting and other regulations. So, you don't have a framework for business, then legal uncertainty increases, tax returns are avoided, and you do business in the gray zone. What have market players been doing so far? Avoiding an unsettled local market, reporting their activities on foreign markets, and this certainly causes an unwarranted outflow of much of the revenues from the Republic of Serbia. So digitisation, technology and new achievements change not only our lives, but also the legislative framework, and this confirms today's legislative proposal. Our country was the first in the region to approach regulation of this matter, i.e. to recognise the importance of legal justification to create a secure legal environment in order to further accelerate the growth of the economy and attract both domestic and foreign investors. The law, therefore, first defines what digital property is, and the target groups to which the law is directed are industry, economy, but certainly physical persons. Businesses are creating new business opportunities, and it will be easier to prevent abuses in the application of new financial technologies. There's one amendment. I think that colleague Tomic has submitted the amendment and we will certainly support it, that the law applies six months after its entry into force, given that it is new matter. Therefore, one longer period should be left for the introduction of legal provisions, but also for the adoption of appropriate sublegal acts. So digitisation is certainly one of the things that can definitely be Serbia's comparative advantage in the future. Serbia is recognised today by something new, as the leader in digitisation, the most advanced state of modern society, and this is a new phase of economic development, I would say, which is just based on innovation. It is important that the government recognises the trend of digitisation, and it is important that the government recognises the trend of digitisation as a trend that will completely change the economy. At the very end, I repeat, not diminishing the importance and importance of the remaining legislative proposals, but this will be discussed by my distinguished colleagues and colleagues in the follow-up to today's session, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support these legislative proposals in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1572	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1573	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected co-workers of the minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us an important set of laws that will continue the process of Serbia's development, its promotion, especially when we talk about the business environment, but also the continuation of the fight against the gray economy and the removal of the pandemic of the Coronus virus we felt. What is very important is to point out, with this set of laws, we continue the successful process of digitisation, which was the agenda and government of the then prime minister, and now the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, but also the Government of Ana Brnabic. As a country, we will certainly be one of the first in the region of Southeast Europe to regulate the segment of digital property and introduce it into economic flows, so that most of the exposure will be devoted to the Digital Property and Fiscalisation Act, but I will also look back at other changes and additions to the law. When we talk about the Digital Property Act, it's a new law that comes with us, and it will certainly improve the business environment, but also the functioning of the financial market itself. What's important is to point out, four are the basic objectives set when it comes to this law. The first is regulation of the digital property market, its introduction and development, but also protection of abuse. The second is to enable financing through the investment, or digital tokens we've heard about here. The third is the improvement of the capital market through the use of digital assets. The fourth is strengthening the framework to combat the abuse of digital assets in the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing segment. First, in the beginning, the law defines and elaborates institutes and concepts such as digital assets, virtual currency, white paper, digital tokens, but also transactions that can be carried out with digital assets, as well as economic operators that can deal with these transactions. What is important to say, this law introduces the possibility of providing advisory services related to digital assets, above all, in terms of investment advice, but also giving investment recommendations, consulting on the structure of capital, business strategy, the issue of digital assets, and so on, which is important to note that this is a great opportunity to launch new jobs, new companies that will specifically deal with this service activity, but in existing companies dealing with the provision of services to upgrade this segment, which is another element that will contribute to the development of our economy. What is important to point out when it comes to virtual currency, it is much noteworthy here that virtual currency is not an official means of payment. It can be used as a means of exchange because behind it and its value does not guarantee and does not stand the National Bank, does not stand a state. What is very important to mention, we have seen, especially the younger generations who are interested in it, is an exceptional volatility, i.e. a deviation from these values during the period and what the law here said is that virtual currencies cannot be a stake in a company, but they can certainly be converted for an official means of payment, included as a stake in a company, while digital tokens, i.e. investment tokens relating to the provision of services or the execution of work can be part of a company, i.e. a role in a company. Also, it was regulated to issue digital assets or, as it is said, mining, which also introduced this segment of business and work under the digital property itself under the legal framework and, more importantly, introduces a segment of white paper that will actually be information about the source of digital property itself, which is an additional contribution to the fight against the abuse of these funds, which is a very important segment, which is also covered by the Law on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Of course, what is important is that special attention is paid to the secondary market when it comes to trading this property, where the concepts and persons that can organise the platform itself are actually introduced, and only trade is organised. Also, this law also provides a regulatory system for trading on the digital property market or the OTC market, which actually defines that business entities can also enter into contracts without intermediaries which will take place when it comes to the exchange of these assets, which is also a chance for the development of our financial market, especially when we are talking about the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which will get another addition and thus actually go further in its development. What is very important is that small businesses, such as start-ups, small and micro-enterprises, are able to start funding and develop their business through digital assets through innovative means, and later become standard participants of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, i.e. standard instruments traded on the capital market, which further gives a boost to the development of the financial market in our country. A special segment, as I said, also refers to the ban on abuse when it comes to digital property trading, which primarily refers to insider information and market manipulation. What is very important is the legal form of business of companies that will deal with the provision of these services, the creation of digital assets, which is, of course, the amount of capital in relation to which the forms would be dealt, so that this segment is regulated, which is, of course, very important for the development of this market. Also, the area of hostage and fiduciary rights on digital property has been regulated. What's very important is that we've already had a chance to hear here, certain powers of the Securities Commission and the NBS, when it comes to controlling the business of digital property operators, where the NBS, as a monetary policy holder, has become involved with the currency crypt and the digital token charters commission, as one form of financial instruments. What is very important is to say that a certain part of the digital property that does not fall under the classic one is to say the capital, i.e. the financial instruments covered by the Capital Market Act are covered by this law and it is possible that, by simpler procedures, they can be traded and exchanged, and of course these segments are further clarified. What is important is that we see for ourselves these legal solutions, I say again, and I am particularly glad that we will be the first country in Southeast Europe to adopt and regulate this segment and provide an opportunity for an innovative way of doing business when it comes to economic operators. This is a significant momentum for the development of our IT sector. We have heard the information and we have seen that every year a growing share of our businesses and our young entrepreneurs, who are being realised in this segment, and by including in this segment when it comes to digital property, this will advance. It is important to note that legislators have also looked at other solutions that exist in the world or are being worked on, so the principle of technical equality is introduced here, which is very important because we know that there are several technologies that can create this digital property. In some countries, the Chane Block is favored, in some countries other technology. It is important here that the legislator has given the opportunity to include other technologies when it comes to the creation of digital assets, which promotes innovation, in particular for our young people who have now received conditions in a number of startup centres to create their own companies, to develop technology with which they will be able to create and place such assets on the market. When we speak also from the aspect of young entrepreneurs and businesses and from the aspect of digitisation that we are carrying out in the country, this is an excellent legal solution that we all need to support. I can tell you that I can't wait until next year to see the first results of applying this legal solution. I know that our legislators will correct if there is a problem, because the law is a living thing, the law adapts to the conditions, we have already in previous sessions and proved it. When we talk about my predecessor's fiscalization law and, of course, the minister said in his explanation that the previous law was passed 15 years ago. In 15 years, technology has made so much progress that we today can have a fiscal cash register in our cell phone, we can use computers. It is precisely the purpose of this law that we apply this new technology and adapt the legal provisions to cut costs, and we have heard from a respected minister who is all the periodic costs our economic operators have when it comes to fiscalisation, when it comes to maintaining fiscal tills, service. In public listening, we even heard information that there are chips that need to be stored, or removed, cleaned, etc. They're peripetia especially for people who aren't in that segment. What is important to say is that the costs that economic operators will have on an annual basis will be reduced and, of course, this solution will improve this fight, i.e. the introduction into legal flows, when it comes to the business of entities using fiscal cash registers. So the solution is that the future fiscal cash register actually has a constant relationship with the tax administration, that in real time they get, that is, information when it comes to the traffic that the company or the business entity is doing, so this is also one of the essential segments in raising the efficiency of our tax administration's work. So far, tax inspectors have been going out on the ground, where, I might say, they've randomly determined the areas on which they're going to be controlling, so we can see that there's also irrational use of resources, additional costs, etc., and that the effects may not have been satisfactory. This is where the story's gonna be different. Here you are connected to your register, with the tax administration where in real time they get information and thus the other tape, which the minister was talking about, which was supposed to be kept for a period of three years, is automatically thrown out, electronic information comes into the system. The tax inspection can be based on the insights of traffic and on the dynamics that exist to determine whether there may be a problem with some subjects, or perhaps there is a suspicion that something is wrong, or does not work under the law, so that it can therefore be entered into the field and that the field control is carried out, which means more efficient use of the resources of the tax administration. This law does not definitely specify all these software and hardware solutions, they are given in principle. This will be done according to the legal provisions, but it is very important to say that there are segments of the application of existing registers that will be adapted to new needs, making new cash registers, but making and software solutions, so that you can buy a computer, a simple printer, or perhaps on a smartphone, or on your phone to install that software and issue accounts, which is actually the story about the instagram of the store that introduces them into the story, so that we can slowly introduce them into legal flows, or that they are no longer in the gray zone. I am particularly pleased that we adopted the 2021 budget, where three billion dinars are defined to be used to support businesses in the fiscalisation process, as the minister said - businessmen will not have the cost of replacing these tills. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to hear from the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, who, in collaboration with the people of the sector, came to the conclusion that 30% of the existing fiscal registers absolutely need to be replaced, and 70% of them will be able to upgrade, or meet these new technical conditions. So we see for ourselves how much lower your costs will be than someone's perceptions, when you say you have to take a new fiscal register. That's where you were thinking. There will be even more work for people who are engaged in the service of fiscal cash registers, because here the precise solutions that are tax bonds that will be included, and the incentives that the state has given for the development of entrepreneurship, the development of economy and service activities, we certainly have many more economic operators today than it was during the first fiscalization. I would remind myself, I found information on the Internet from 2004, and when the government was doing the first fiscalisation, I can freely say, without cooperation with the businessmen, where a solution occurred and was eventually to be applied, the state then identified about 700 million dinars as aid to businesses in fiscalisation, but as they said, an average of about 7,000 per economic entity was allocated funds. So, again, the businessmen had expenses, and now they won't have any expenses. How well they did it, it says that in the first period of 150,000 planned fiscalization we carried out 1,600. Why? Because there was no communication with the economy, there was no communication with those who needed to work with it. This government, this government, is doing things differently. This fiscalisation process will be effective, will allow further progress in our economy and will allow these businesses to achieve much better business results, something that has been done in the previous period. When it comes to the next solutions, I will not look at much individually, but we can see that they are being corrected, or complemented and harmonised with open investment funds laws, alternative investment funds, that the state is in fact extending activity when it comes to stimulating the employment of young people's quality frames, which should only be proven by the return of taxes and contributions for the amount of 65 to 75% and extending to that period by the end of next year. Then, that what we talked about at the previous session, when it comes to the budget, is now passed legal acts where there will be an increase in the untaxed share of profits from 16300 to 18300, which will not only go to hire new people, I am sure that they will go into investment so that these businessmen can do even more successfully, and that is what the responsible state and government are doing. When it comes to excise legislation, this is another proof that we are on the European path, because we are harmonising our regulations with European regulations and European standards and this mid-term plan from 2021 to 2025, we will also coordinate the amount of excise duties, when it comes to burning and non-burnable tobacco and when it comes to actually liquids for electronic cigarettes. So in this segment we will achieve good results and what is important is to provide reliable information and stability on the market. So we're proving that the state is a real partner to a team of businessmen, because in fact in time it informs them that it's going to be conducted and, of course, it's done in conversation with them. In the end, I would just like to add, and the minister explained other legal acts, I wouldn't even repeat myself, the other colleagues touched all the individual solutions, I just want to say, you remember at the first session when we chose the government when we talked about the six objectives of this government, so these are concrete steps, the first steps in the realization of some of these objectives, above all, the objectives of economic development, that we become leaders in the region, the fight against the gray economy, but also the fight to preserve the health of our people and against the pandemic of the coronary virus, which, of course, we will speak of the next few days. Otherwise, they are evidence of the Serbian government's determination to make Serbia itself a better place to live, to make Serbia a better place to operate and that Serbia will indeed be a leader in the region. I'm free to say that Gilas's clan of opposition and his media dealing with nothing but plain propaganda, however they like, are trying to twist the mockery of everything we're saying here in the Assembly and what's being done on the ground. They can do it freely, because the facts, the activities and the results are the ones that talk about what is written, not what is written. So, feel free to make fun of us, feel free to twist the mockery. What I have repeated a hundred times is that this government, this government has credibility with citizens, has been proven on 21 June when a list entitled "Alexander Vukic" received over two million votes from citizens of Serbia, and before that, several previous election cycles have also been a record high number of votes, which has actually been confirmed to support the policy that Aleksandar Vucic is leading, when it comes to Serbia, especially in the period since 2014, when severe reforms have been carried out and which continue. What we have proved in these steps is that we are consistent with our policy, we are consistent with the goals that Alexander Vukic set at that time as prime minister, which are being implemented today during this period. What I'm also trying to say is that citizens believe what they see, what they're doing for them, which means they want better infrastructure, better roads, better health care, better education, better jobs, better living standards, all that we're going to discuss in the next days and what we're going to adopt is actually going into that segment, and they're not and they're not just not going to trust already seen politicians, in fact I wouldn't tell politicians, politicians. They are nothing more than politicians from the yellow brothers, who now, under the auspices of new uniforms, apply some new economic doctrines, where 2+2 can sometimes be three, some time five, depending, probably, whether they are on the side of creditors or debtors, who do not know the basic economic concepts. So inflation remains unknown to them, and currency is probably a matter of perception. What they're offering citizens is simply selling fog. Citizens do not believe it because of such politicians and such, let's say, the results they have achieved have no place in Serbia's government, and there is no place on the political scene, but only in the political past. Thank you. Only in the end to say that the list “Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children” in voting day will absolutely and happily support these sets of laws and amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1574	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the list of MPs. According to the application for the word first on the list is a folk MP, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1575	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honored present today, we have before us laws which, as clearly seen, aim to improve and modernise the functioning of the state system. Although many of these laws are true, the subject is not so attractive for discussion, but certainly there are interesting moments. For us MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the issue of taxation is, in any case, one of the most important issues regarding the quality and efficiency of the functioning of the state apparatus. True, what we're doing today and adopting these laws will make it more efficient to function more effectively. However, what should be pointed out is that it is not enough to stay on what is form and what is, therefore, the necessary form, but the quality of one system alongside this formal aspect that makes the system more efficient, must never be forgotten that justice and justice is what is the basic dimension of the quality of each system. Society and state as long as they remain consistent with that ideal, and today it is not easy to be consistent with ideals, because ideals have somehow become demode, they are overcome and when you try to talk about ideals, no matter how much they do with persuasion, somehow the effect of demagogy or pulsism is left. However, in the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we do not want to give it up, and through our political discourse, we want to constantly potentiate the need to maintain a balance, maintain a balance between what is formal and procedural quality on one side and what is a real essential quality. We can certainly give an example of taxing profits. He is also one of the burning, most important, not only in our country, but in the whole world, and it is not difficult to pass good laws, but it is the most difficult to force large, powerful, over-rich owners of companies, companies or large-capital owners to pay taxes on profits. Usually, the victims are small, the poor, and there we have the most common consistency of various tax, inspection services, to easily prosecute that small seller or producer and he is most often the most insecure and consistent in paying taxes while the large ones, for example, find ways to avoid paying taxes on profits. We often have a phenomenon in the world that multibillionaires are founders of humanitarian organisations and foundations, and through that it gives us the impression that they do great good deeds, and in fact if they paid taxes, there would be no need for their humanitarian works, but the problem is that they don't usually pay, and then through humanitarian foundations they wash their own consciences. In these lessons, I want us to learn and that we are actually trying to raise our capacities above that tiny, little, poor taxpayer and try to focus on being the big, big ones, especially those that flirt with crime. We talked a lot about bookies in the last term. I'm getting information, say, that in New Market, the largest number of bookies work absolutely without any licenses or papers. So we have that kind of information. We can't ask them to the end, or check them out, but we call on the authorities to check it out. If we have such phenomena, then it's a message to the citizens, especially these ordinary, small, small, ordinary people who struggle to survive and feed their families that we actually have these double standards that are very harmful. What I want to mention, and today is before us, is the question of restitution, or compensation. We have had delays in terms of the return of property to the Islamic community, but the truth and I want to point out, in the past term, this government has made a significant step through the competent directorate. We've already begun the process of restoring that property. That's good, and in that sense we should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1576	Thank you. The next speaker is Enis Imamovic. He's not here. The next speaker is Vladimir Djukanovic. He's not here. The next speaker is a colleague of Jasmina Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1577	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are discussing a set of financial laws at this session, and I will look back at a whole new law that will be given to Serbia, which regulates the virtual and digital property market. As early as 2017, digitisation was set as one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which proved very good now at the time of the Aaron virus pandemic, as thanks to the digital services in the areas of education and health, Serbia was positioned among the five most productive countries in the world in terms of digital solutions in response to the crisis, according to OECD estimates, the organisation for economic co-operation and development. Digitalisation of the health system makes it much easier for citizens to access health services, and these digital services should continue to be improved, especially in terms of pandemics, in order to minimise the risk of citizens being exposed. By passing this law, our country ranks itself in the ranks of countries that have recognized among the first ones the necessity of creating a regulatory framework for the field of digital property. Why is it important for Serbia to get one of these laws? It was precisely because neither the economy nor the natural persons had any framework for digital property operations so far, which produced numerous consequences, such as legal uncertainty, avoidance of payment of tax obligations, which resulted in operations in the gray zone. Experts in the area say the proposed law is a major step towards increasing legal security, developing digital technologies and competitiveness of the Serbian economy on the world stage. And here we are introducing jobs into legal flows. What's that look like so far? Digital assets, primarily virtual currencies, are regulated only by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists, and that is solely to prevent criminal groups from abuse of virtual currencies. Those who are seriously involved in this business have managed by applying their business activities abroad, resulting in an outflow of much of Serbia's income through tax evasion. This will no longer be possible because the Digital Property Act, which enables digital currency trading, also provides for new rules. Here, for example – if you get a bitcoin on a gift you will be obliged to pay taxes and that is another tax that citizens should certainly have in mind. This should not be seen as another imposition, but rather as the legal arrangement of another area of business. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, which in its programme definition represents the view that the government is rightly out of tax revenue obliged to provide both health care and education and any other kind of comfort to its citizens has no dilemma that our parliamentary group will support this bill. A significant benefit from this law is that businessmen will have more innovative opportunities to develop their business, such as the launch of a platform for the exchange of digital assets, whose value is estimated at more than 300 billion euros globally. The adoption of this law is also important from the point of view of legal certainty especially at the time of the coronary pandemic of the virus, when a huge part of communication and business takes place digitally, where digital property is also important. In a situation where crypts become a generally accepted way of paying once again, it is good that there is a legal framework that regulates this area, moreover, can develop a domestic market, but also attract foreign companies. Since this is one big newspaper and a whole new regulation, the law is scheduled to enter into force one year after its adoption and this is good because it leaves enough time for the adoption of sublegal acts and compliance with other laws, but also for those involved in providing services related to digital property to comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1578	Thank you. This concludes the first part of today's session. In accordance with article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour, which means we're continuing our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1579	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The next speaker is Daniel Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1580	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, the Honored Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I planned to talk today, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contribution to Social Insurance. Before I move on to the content of the bill itself, let me take a closer look at one, for a certain portion of the duchy Hungarians, a very important question and ask you, Mr. Minister, to clarify this dilemma here today, if possible. From the moment the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax came to the public, perhaps even before that, we have witnessed various speculations and speculations in the media, which were mostly incorrect and frightening, and related to double taxation of the income of citizens who are residents of the Republic of Serbia and earn their income abroad. As an MP for the Union of Duchy Hungarians, I think it is necessary to clarify questions about possible double taxation immediately. Citizens are confused and want to know what awaits them after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Income Tax. To be clear, I am now not talking about frillers, but about citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are resident in Serbia on temporary work abroad, who regularly pay taxes and contributions in the country in which they make their incomes. In fact, we have a large number of citizens living in the north of Vojvodina, mainly in the territory of the municipality of Subotica, Somboro or the municipality of Kanjiz and others, and they work in Hungary, for example in Segedin, Pechu, Ketchmet, Vesprem and elsewhere, and we have not a small number of citizens who are on temporary work in various EU countries, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, etc. Mr. Mali, first of all, I thank you for the presentations so far, and I ask you to clarify the situation together, and as much as possible, we calm people who have shaken the false news that they will be double taxed, that after the regular reconciliation of their obligations where they work and in Serbia they will have to pay an additional tax. Mr. Minister, I ask you once again to clarify and respond to the dilemmas and fears caused by speculation – will these people, in this case, a large number of Vojvodina Hungarians who travel across the border to work daily, but also all those who are on temporary work abroad, have to pay an additional tax or, quite logically, as so far, will apply the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation, which Serbia has signed, among other things, with Hungary, but also with almost all EU countries? If that's possible, I'd like to ask you to clear that up here and now. I'd like to refer to some other solutions from the bill. The basic content of the proposed amendments to the Law on Income Tax refers to an increase in the non-taxable amount of earnings from 16.300 to 18.300 dinars per month. The proposed solution in the part of increasing the non-taxable amount of earnings will result in a reduction in costs in the economy, as the application allows for less fiscal burden on labour-based revenues. The proposed solution further reduces the tax burden of labour, further redeploying the economy, which is in line with the Recommendation of the Economic Reform Programme for the period from 2020 to 2022 and the revised Fiscal Strategy for 2020, with projections for 2021 and 2022. Regulation of the tax treatment of income based on ownership of the investment unit of the alternative investment fund, its transfer revenue, as well as the tax credit of the annual tax on the basis of investments in alternative investment funds, i.e. the purchase of an investment unit of the alternative investment fund. An arrangement of tax treatment, income obtained by a natural person through the transfer of digital assets and the introduction of a tax exemption on capital gains, for taxpayers who invest the cash generated by the sale of digital assets in the underlying capital of a company, i.e. in the capital of an investment fund. Expansion of tax exemption based on gambling gains on winnings from special gambling, extension of the period of application of existing benefits for hiring new persons. The second draft law, the basic content of the supplement, the amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance refers to: the extension of the period of application of existing incentives for the employment of new persons, the determination of the category of employer who has the right to use reliefs based on the employment of a qualified new employee. The proposed legal solutions give private sector employers another fiscal incentive to invest in jobs and employ more people. The proposed extension of the period of application of existing reliefs will have an impact on economic operators which allow their further use. These are employers: legal persons, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs farmers who have the right to recover paid contributions ranging from 65% to 75%, depending on the number of newly employed persons, which is certainly supported by the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians. The proposed changes will have an impact on both micro and small enterprises. The proposed extension of the relief period in terms of vomiting 70% of paid contributions on the basis of the earnings of new employees refers to both entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs or farmers' entrepreneurs and legal persons who are placed in micro or small legal persons. The proposed extension of relief also gives new business operators the opportunity to use benefits in hiring new persons. In addition, this law will also affect the very natural persons who establish a working relationship with the employer, as it will enable them to exercise labour rights and on the basis of the rights and compulsory social security, pension and disability rights, health insurance rights and unemployment insurance rights. To conclude, the SVM parliamentary group will support these draft laws ahead of us in the voting day and I thank you in advance for the answers and for responding together to the great dilemmas of our citizens and I hope to calm down the tensions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1581	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Daniel Jovanovic and congratulate him on his first official address as a newly elected MP in the Serbian Parliament. Since I see Mr. Sinisha Mali has signed up, I give my word to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1582	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, dear Mr. Giovanni, here I am to join the congratulations on your first address as an MP in the National Assembly. I was just a moment ago, and I thought I answered that question, but here's Mrs. Kovac, she asked me to repeat one more time to make it very clear to the people you're in contact with. So once again and very clearly, the double taxation avoidance agreement with Hungary remains in force. Nothing is changed about paying income taxes for citizens travelling across the border and working in Hungary. So absolutely nothing changes. After all, you said yourself, when you were talking about amending the Income Tax Act that these two changes were most important. One change concerning the increase in the non-taxable share of income from 16300 to 18300 dinars and also the extension of the tax refund and the contribution for newly employed persons of between 65% and 75%, which extended until the end of next year, as another type of incentive for new employment. And that's where my every comment would be done. Unfortunately, I am sorry that the irresponsible statements made by individuals have led to anyone, who works fairly, to pay taxes and contributions and so on for decades ago, because the essence of this law has not changed unless I have been wrong since 2003. So nothing changes this year, except for some additional promotions that are related, especially to business policy and the environment here in Serbia, and once again, people living in Serbia, and working in Hungary, are employed there, receiving salaries, in line with the double taxation agreement with Hungary, because taxes and contributions are there and higher, here they have no obligation to pay taxes and contributions. These taxes and contributions have been paid to Hungary on the salaries they earn there. I hope I've made myself clear. If I'm not, I'll do it again sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1583	Thank you very, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very, very, very, very, very, very, Let's move on. According to the list of registered MPs, the following is the word of MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1584	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, and above all Serbian citizens, this assembly search contains important laws. There may have been a colleague Voja Vujic who was right, it is difficult to process everything in one discussion, for the authorized a little harder than for those of us who shared our duties. So I'm going to talk only about two laws from this set of 16 laws as far as we're concerned, but I'm going to say that it's important to point out that one of the laws, in fact the new law on digital property, would be insane to say anything further on that subject, you've worked so hard to explain, I don't think there's a citizen of Serbia who wanted to know, and that he doesn't know what it really is and how important it is for all of our citizens. The other laws that are in place are a series of tax laws to be provided, primarily the income side of the budget. The Law on the Change of Public Property, the Provisional Editing of the Method of Taxation for Public Service, the Law which I will primarily deal with, as well as the Amendments to the Law on the Determination of Public Interest in Special Expropriation and Construction of Construction Authorisation Procedures for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". So, first of all, the law relating to the change in the amount of tax for the Public Media Service, fully aware in front of the SPS parliamentary group, and I will also point out why. Whenever you increase taxes then it causes a negative reaction in people, however, this really has its own justification and its own explanation. It is a temporary means of funding the Public Service and it is not the first time we have changed its height. We have the right to look at it from different angles even in the way we propose an amendment in which we say that a tax should be one dinar. It's completely unrealistic. If, on the one hand, as MPs, we constantly appeal to the Public Service and the overall media space and media houses of Serbia, that they must be more responsible when it comes to broadcasting the programme, it is more than irresponsible to talk about taxes from one dinar. So, if you could talk about one dinar tax, the right of the Socialists to say it out loud, but we can't be unrealistic, we're not sitting in this room to lie to this people and in that sense, and I have taken the obligation to talk about it. Public media service covering RTS and TV performs the public information function of citizens in the Republic. Products, not only informative, but also cultural and educational programs, and this production is absolutely not cheap. What I will point out is that both RTS and RTV have information emissions in their programming schemes and in the languages of the national minorities living in Serbia, and I think it is important to say that, because this is a good thing to deny some of the allegations that we have had in the past period to hear in the Assembly. Do citizens rightly expect the public media service to be in the right sense of the word "civil service"? Yeah. Yes, but they rightly expect it to meet these informative, cultural and educational needs of citizens? Again, yes. Is it always easy to do? No, we need to be supportive in this regard and public service and I think that this increase from, I think, 43 or 44 dinars in relation to the current price of tax is not as terrible for the citizens of Serbia as it will mean to public services. I sincerely hope and firmly believe to improve what none of us can influence, we can only suggest, and that's a programming scheme. On the other hand, commercial televisions that know that are often criticised also have the right to their programming scheme, but we have appealed, at least a few times, I believe that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we will talk again, so that this television content may be more quality for the shade. So, to conclude, with fees Serbia is not the only country in which public fees are financed by a public information function. This model is not bad, it gives us the possibility of choices and the fact that there are commercial televisions. So we can define what we're going to follow, that's true, but I firmly believe that as a state we must support public service first even though I say it does not reduce the responsibility of some other media outlets with a national frequency. Amendments to the law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation, the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". These changes are about, and that's what you've been talking about, first of all, on the deadlines for the simple reason, because the slowdown of the project took place for Kovid 19 and these are somewhere I think the reasons that are justified in many segments. What's important and why I'm going to be conscious about it is that everyone is clear, including the skeptics and the opponents of this project, that it is realised successfully and quickly. In that space, we now see a completely different Belgrade. We see our metropolis in one new light, but there is one thing that we haven't given up and I will emphasize it, the Belgrade Railway Station was built between 1882 and 1885, as far as I have the information, according to the plans of architect Dragutin Milutinovic and if I am not mistaken, it will remain, or be converted into a museum. One important building, which has the status of cultural monuments of great importance, will continue to live where it was. In addition, I must point out the satisfaction of the fact that a monument to Stefan Nemanja, the founder of the medieval Serbian state, is ending in the Central Sava Square, the statesman who struck the foundations of our country. They are not broken even in the time of the Turks and, ultimately, thanks to Nemanja's Serbia, we are here today. As far as we can go into politics, it's the fact that we're even criticizing this. We also criticise the tendency to preserve our tradition, criticise the need to, however modernize Serbia's capital, have this dose of our tradition and our spirituality, so we criticized it even from the position it seems to me, that monument. There's been a lot of diabolical comments. If I had any influence in person, I might insist that the whole square is actually named after the square of Germany. I think we owe that dynasty that much. After all, she has led Serbia for three centuries. Why did I speak on behalf of the SPS most of all about these two laws? Because I think they will be least spoken of, because it is practically these laws which, I said, have no alternative at this time, they may be even less important than the law that speaks of digital property, but it is important for the public to say that everything that the Serbian Parliament makes as a law and decision is fully aware of it and in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are not exposed to what often happens to us, and that is to call some ugly names, recognising ourselves in the mirror. Can we be criticised? Yeah. Do our statements intersect brutally? Yeah. Did what I said to someone today interfere? I guess so. But I will point out once again, the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs will certainly vote for all the first set laws that we are talking about today. I say again, my greatest pleasure will be in the fact that in the mandate we will do something that has its way to the 21st century, but it also remembers its 14, 15 and 16th centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1585	I thank Parliamentarian Paunovic, deputy head of the parliamentary group. Before we move to the next one on the list, MPs, let me inform you that we have received a notice from RTS that they are able to transfer today's session by 6 p.m. due to the previously agreed obligation to transfer the World Cup final to wrestling 2020, but since the president announced the possibility that we will be working longer than 1800 hours, the rest of the session will be broadcast in the evening, not in direct transmission. Let's move on. Next on the list is Biljana Jakovljevic's National MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1586	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, last week we adopted a draft budget law for 2021, thus allowing for the continuation of large capital projects, but also the start of new ones, as well as the continuation of the battle with the pandemic of the virus. Just by adopting these financial laws that we are talking about today, we continue to develop our country from the areas of road and rail infrastructure. I must mention that for us Chacans of exceptional importance are precisely works on the Moravia Corridor, a special share of the Preljina-Pojate highway, as well as the continuation of Milos Veliki highway, shares of the Preljina-Požega highway. It's very commendable that in these moments, work on other cars on our country's territory. When we talk about other large-scale capital projects, we can also talk about improving the sewage network and the treatment of waste water, which is also one of the very important republican projects that is important to us, Cachana. The investment has been allocated 30m euros and certain works are already under way, and are related to the preparation of the site for the construction of a wastewater treatment plant, worth 23m euros. Then, reconstruction and water supply channels, worth 7.5m euros, are under way and is 24km long. That's what we're going to do to improve the agricultural good of the Chacan region. Also, in 17 other municipalities and cities will work in these fields. We're really looking forward to a lot of big, nice investments we're going to talk about here next year. Now I would specifically refer to the proposal for a law on digital property, because I think this is one of the very important topics for us young people primarily, but of course for all the population. I believe that in the 21st century there is probably no person who is not at least elementally digitally written or even who has this insight of how important digitalization is and how technology is. We were particularly convinced of this during the pandemic of the coronary virus, because thanks to digitization and technology, we managed to keep in touch with our friends, with our relatives, we managed to save a large number of sectors, such as education. Thanks to online, participants have managed to carry out their school duties. Also, in the trade sector, we saw that communication between producers and consumers has functioned smoothly. Indeed, we have now seen more than ever the importance of innovation and technology, how much certain sectors just thanks to digitization have continued to function despite the pandemic of the virus's coronary. Since technology has proven to help mankind and technology develop daily, our country has recognized this need even before the corona of the virus appears. On his own coming to power, President Aleksandar Vucic wanted Serbia to step up with major European countries in many areas, including with regard to digitisation and innovation. I remind you that the 2020/2025 Investment Plan defines significant means of digitisation and artificial intelligence. Accordingly, four scientific and technological parks have been opened in Serbia in recent years, one of which is in Cačka. So, besides Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, Cačak is one of the centres that cares about young people and all those who want to generate their ideas right here in Serbia. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic also stressed in her exposé that one of our country's priorities is just investing in digitisation, because we want a more modern country and more efficient in all areas where the introduction of system networking can speed up work. The purpose of digitisation is broadly intended and when it comes to introducing digitalisation into the public administration system, in health care, in local self-government, we will speed up and achieve more efficient and quality functioning, in fact faster flow of information and help citizens to reach their goals faster, to solve their needs and problems, and for employees this means a faster way of solving the problems addressed by citizens. Accordingly, I will fully support the bill that is before us, and I will ask my colleagues to do the same to help our country develop in a more modern and versatile style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1587	I thank the MP Jakovljevic. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Samir Tandira.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1588	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, is a very important set of laws that we are discussing today. What I want to point out and to refer to colleagues from Vojvodina who have spoken, is that this story about taxation of our diaspora, and I come from Sandzak, has upset the public a lot, and I don't think it's the worst thing we've talked about today, whether we have double taxation with countries and what countries, because a lot of citizens and citizens have contacted us, and they're really upset. It's very important that you send a direct message, that people know what they can expect, because they've called us, that we have citizens, our diaspora, whether to give up citizenship, what to do, whether it applies to them, etc. So most of the Sanjay diaspora is located in the countries of Western Europe, the countries of Benelux, Scandinavia, Germany, etc. It's very important to send a message, these are the great patriots, the people who, even at this time, sent the pandemic with the virus Covid 19, helped our municipalities, helped healthcare institutions. As far as the Digital Property Act is concerned, I want to say it's a very important law. We don't even have oil as a country, we don't even have diamonds, but I think we have a great chance at something called the creative industry, and it's something that we're being created by, by our own intellect, globally known. So it's absolutely clear that something known as a refrigerator in term is necessary and legally detect and edit, because according to data available to members of that profession, people who do this job are six times more profitable than others in Serbia. Frillenser in Serbia, about 30 to 50%, is growing the number of those employed in this industry and we're fifth in profit. So it was very important for this segment of society to be fully defined. As far as time is concerned, we expect that, as the president of the country today opened a large factory called Tojo Tyres in India to make this happen almost in Sandzak. But until that happens, the creative industry is something that's our big chance. I want to mention that in 2012, Facebook, how important this segment is in our lives and how much time we're walking towards, Facebook bought Instagram for a billion dollars in 2012. He only had 13 employees. Today Instagram brings its bosses $500,000 a month. So, in two months, that investment pays off. Let's go back to privatisation. I think the biggest privatisation was the sale of "Mobtel" in Serbia. So creative industry is something that's our country's chance. As far as the Fiscalization Act is concerned, it is necessary to continue to introduce order. I want to point out that we still have companies that work in the gray zone that we have workers, that we all stand for and fight for, that work for years, that don't have working days. It's something we need systemically as a state to get in the way. As for the law on the confiscation of property, I would like to point out that in the previous term, the government has made a major step towards my community, some very important facilities such as the Faculty of Islamic Studies, the Faculty of Islamic Studies in Novi Pazar and the New Market Bane buildings have been returned to the Islamic Community. That's something to say goodbye to, that's the way to go. However, the Islamic community as well as other religious communities have many facilities that are in the process of restitution. One of these objects that I want to highlight is the Musale facility in Prijepolje located in the space of the former social firm “Sacredness” and due to administrative barriers we cannot get to the return of that property. So I ask you to influence the Agency for Restitution and other competent authorities to engage more actively in this problem that is truly complex and that is daily disrupting the work, not only of the Islamic communities, but of all the religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1589	Thank you, People's Parliament. I am aware that you have formed a parliamentary group, but that time will apply from the next session. Now you've still spoken as someone outside the MP's group. Thank you for understanding. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1590	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about the proposal for a law on temporary tax arrangements for public media services, which proposes to increase the subscription by 44 dinars, i.e. from 255 to 299 dinars. With this proposal, the Government fulfils its legal obligation under the Media Public Services Act to ensure a stable financing of the basic activity of media public services, their editorial independence and institutional autonomy while taking care of the economic environment and the economic strength of the debtor. The increase in the subscription, on the one hand, and the reduction of direct appropriations from the budget is, in my opinion, another step towards the full independence of the media public service. It's never enough to point to the importance of media public service, and I'm gonna do it this time. Public media services play an important role in information and education and represent an important element of every democratic society, which is why its survival should not be questioned. It's not only unacceptable, it can be extremely dangerous. For the sake of operating RTS on the other side, it's not perfect. Serbia's radio television must be much better, especially its information programme. However, the following should be kept in mind. Serbia's radio television is the most qualitative, most professional, and the most balanced television station in the country, and as much as it has, whatever it is, justifiably or unwarrantedly, it should objectively look at its role, the quality of RTS and its overall contribution to society, and compare it all to commercial television stations. It is important and useful for public media services to be in the service of citizens. They pay them and control their work in that sense. The money the public service gets is not and must not be tied to any condition. On the other hand, it must have a clear and transparent flowway. Citizens need to know how to spend that money. On the other hand, it is also necessary to understand politicians and their support in the functioning of the public media service. Independence is a prerequisite for functioning, both in management, and in funding, and in editorial policy. This House and the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up a framework for the independent functioning of the public media service by passing a good law in 2014. When I say good, it is not only good in my personal opinion and opinion of my colleagues, but it is an EU assessment. The challenges, however, are numerous in implementing these frameworks. Just understanding the role of a public media service in one society is one of them. Then another challenge is the political will and commitment to the survival of the media public service. The implementation of legal solutions is a third challenge in implementing these frameworks that we have adopted, as well as the selection of members of supervisory bodies and bodies of media public service and funding. So the role of parliament has been fulfilled, a legal framework has been established to ensure smooth work and independence of the public media service. This role of parliament is seen, of course, in the development and preservation of media pluralism. The Public Media Service Act provides for the independence of the public media service, both in terms of funding and in particular with regard to editorial policy and defines the objectives and tasks of the public media service, in terms of objective and impartial reporting. The state created conditions for the public media service to function and has stable funding and guarantees its independent editorial policy. Neither the expertise nor the means of choice nor the amount of money guarantee law enforcement and the functioning of a public media service. Key words in this regard are personal responsibility and professional integrity. In this respect, it is necessary to improve and continuously work on the professionalisation of media workers and public service journalists themselves. So, just regulation and respect for ethical and professional standards. Working and improving media literacy is also important, especially given the fact that we live in an era of misinformation and false news. For us, as a country seeking full membership in the EU, it is therefore useful to understand this role of media public services in the process of democratisation of society. Media services must develop in line with social, economic and technological trends and adapt to them in order to gain a key role in society. The media public service, on the other hand, must produce high quality media content, because it is, in fact, a tool in the fight against misinformation and false news. Investment in public media services especially in news production, as I said, is the key and the answer of every society that wants to move forward. Stable, independent, adequate and sustainable funding enables the public media service to perform its public function, and therefore, dear colleagues, it is unacceptable to propagate the thesis on the abolition of the television subscription and at the same time tells of the quality of the public service programme. Efforts to abolish the subscription have also been overcome as an instrument of political struggle. This is a direct commitment to abolishing public service or returning public service to state property. I think it would be a unique case in Europe if, in the XXI century, a congregation in this way abolished public service. Listening to these days about increasing television subscription, I conclude that the excess democratic paroles are often clouded by the lack of civic responsibility of those who turn their opinion into a preaching belief.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1591	Excuse me, colleague, you'll have to sum up. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1592	Just one last sentence. This may be the best indicator of how individuals see media freedoms and the independence of media public service. On the other hand, I get the impression that those who think differently respect RTS status and significance. In private, everyone tells me that. Officially, some people do what they have to do. Therefore, by proposing to increase the subscription by 44 dinars, the government fulfils its legal obligation to allow for smooth functioning and stable financing of RTS, and an increase in the subscription will replace the reduction, i.e. the lack of direct payments from the RTS budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1593	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dubravka the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1594	I am extremely pleased that today as the youngest member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have the opportunity to discuss such a modern and progressive legal solution as the proposal for a law on digital property. Although counterpart Paunovic said that this law has already been said almost everything, I have not heard that anyone congratulated all those talented young people, who have so far been engaged in crypto currencies, who no one knew what they were actually doing and what they were actually doing, what their work, after the adoption of this law, would be legally recognised, defined, explained and transparent to all of us through supervision by the National Bank of Serbia and the Securities Commission. It is clear to me that there are also those who, according to their knowledge, are also incomes that have been slightly selfish, so this proposed regulation doesn't like them, but we all need to be aware that one serious state, like ours, cannot allow any irregular market to exist, primarily in order to prevent tax evasion, money laundering and financing of various illegal activities. I also heard a comment that the Digital Property Act will have no direct meaning for ordinary citizens, which I cannot agree with because I know of an example of a New Sad law firm whose hackers seized all the documentation and submissions that this office kept on its interlinked computers, and hackers have again granted access to these documents by paying a certain amount precisely into the currency crypt, i.e. in bitcoin. Once that payment was made and the data access was re-enabled, it was never revealed to whom that payment went, or who did it because the transactions of the crypts were not then under the control of the state and it was almost impossible to trace them. For this reason, it is necessary to protect ordinary citizens in this regulation. It is also a public secret that almost entirely the black market and Europe and the world are funded right through the bitcoins. I therefore believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism are also extremely important, which my colleague Justina Pupin will discuss in more detail. To sum it up. This law will introduce order into the digital property market, know who owns digital property, who can provide related services to, to whom and in what way. Also, I'd like to mention three more things that I think deserve special attention. The first is that when making the legal text, there was a computer with risks that digital assets or, more specifically, virtual currencies carry with them, so for this reason they are able to own and operate with digital assets of an excluded bank and similar institutions, which I believe is a largely pre-warranted possibility of having certain anomalies in our financial system. Another important thing is that the law does not contain restrictive provisions, i.e. there is no tax on what is considered digital property, but rather the law declares the principle of technological neutrality, which actually means that tomorrow it is possible for a young man to invent new technology that will be recognised as digital property, without the need to change the law or to broadcast our domestic, Serbian virtual currency. I didn't hear anyone mention it. The third thing is, of course, our domestic market, or domestic platform for digital property trading. In general, anyone who has a new, innovative idea, the state must allow it to be realised, and I believe this law opens up a series of opportunities for the prosperity of young entrepreneurs. The minister mentioned the possibility for young entrepreneurs to raise money through digital tokens to realise their projects, and there is a possibility that the value of their projects will increase through trade in these tokens on our stock market. When the president of the National Assembly and the president of the SPS introduced young SPS personnel into the assembly benches, he said – let us change not to change us. In this context, the SPS will also support the Digital Property Bill and follow-up laws that introduce changes and improve our financial system and prevent abuses and protect citizens of Serbia. In the end, lawyer Tom Fila, otherwise also an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, asked me to make comments on the Fiscalisation Law, which are extremely important for the position of lawyers. Namely, in Article 4. The proposal for a fiscalisation law is determined that the fiscalisation obligation is every taxpayer of income tax on self-employed activity, which would actually mean that this provision applies to lawyers, with the possibility that the government will decide not to register traffic. Fila's lawyer points out, which I fully agree with, that the proposing should already by law provide that lawyers are not bonds of fiscalisation. In fact, I am joining his view that this issue cannot be resolved by the government's special decision, because, namely, that decision may and may not have to be made, and even if it is, there is no guarantee that the next government will keep that decision. On the contrary, he can change or abolish it in simple procedure. I therefore ask the authorising officer to declare whether the government will exclude the lawyership from its obligation to fiscalise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1595	I thank my fellow citizen. Mr. Secretary Sinisha Mali has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1596	Dear Members, first of all, thank you very much for your presentation. Whether or not it will depend on a regulation that follows this law. So I can't tell you in advance what the solution to that regulation is going to be. What I can tell you is that after this law is passed, we will leave immediately and prepare all necessary sublaws. I said we'd adopt all necessary sublaws by the end of March next year. So, we'll have a few months to talk to everyone and see who does and what. Finally, the previous solution, i.e. the existing law, is such that it has certain categories of businessmen that are excluded from the application of the Fiscalisation Act. At this point, I simply can't tell you if it's going to be a case or not with the lawyers, but I'm not going to rule it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1597	Thank you. I assume the Messenger King wants a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1598	Just to ask the minister to keep such a regulation in mind the specificity of the law as a profession and that it certainly advocates that lawyers be excluded from the obligation to fiscalise, as has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1599	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1600	We're already in communication with the bar. It's clear to me that this lawyer lobby, it's always that lawyers are special, that they should be excluded from everything. I see you're on that side. It's okay. We'll just talk about it next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1601	Everyone's aware of the problem, and it's clear to all of us to the minister. I hope he responded in line with the possibilities. The word has a folk emissary, Nevena Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1602	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today when we have such a serious and large set of laws, I have reported that I am talking about some of them, and I will certainly support the proposed set of laws in the voting day. At the very beginning, I would refer to the Fiscalisation Act, which has been in place for almost 15 years, more precisely since 1 January 2005, but because of the development of technologies, it is necessary to implement certain improvements and to provide a more modern approach to the development of technological processes, all with a view to curbing the grey economy, faster and more efficient work of the tax administration and more effective monitoring of tax revenues in Serbia's budget. The new fiscalisation system provides for more effective monitoring and control of those taxpayers at risk of tax evasion, but provides conditions for the tax administration for more effective control and more controls in the tax system’s headquarters without a greater need for field controls, and most importantly will not constitute an additional burden on the economy. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the Ministry of Finance for making such system laws that contribute to our country's systematic improvement. As the finance minister announced, electronic factors are expected by 2022. So, paper invoices will be past, e invoices are introduced at the request of the economy. It is an indication that Serbia is moving forward with the modern world. When it comes to the fight against the gray economy, and to this end, this award game "Take the Account and win", I think the point is that we all develop awareness of the importance of demand and taking a fiscal account at each purchase. In each fiscal account is part of the money that goes directly to the Republic of Serbia's budget. And that's exactly the money we build hospitals from, and homes of health, and schools, and kindergartens, and roads, and we raise salaries and pensions, and practically every dinar we don't take through a single fiscal account is at our expense, to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There are also those who are without shame and shame, because they do not know of shame and are practically haters of this government, and led by Dragan Gilas, are trying to create such a political climate in Serbia so that they can only be further enriched at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I wonder, who is the tax paid by Gilas' media? Any situation, whether it's a business of a company, whether it's a crown virus, whether it's a migrant, a health or an economic crisis, they're using to place some false news or an affair. They didn't even hesitate to go to the First Five-year-olds' rooms in Triestenik. They placed news containing it entirely made up, which is that migrants are staying in the premises of the factory on the orders of the previous Mayor Kruševac, Mr Bratislav Gasic. This is the news of which is absolutely made up and placed with the aim of bringing unrest among the people of Triestenik. I must admit that Gilas' followers are at least seeing strange things – drugs in Morovic and migrants in Triestenik. These people, through their media, constantly place the arsenal of lies, above all, at the expense of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and then at the expense of all of us who daily present relevant and objective facts, which certainly do not contribute to them and certainly that what we learn about trade, wealth and the transactions of the Gilas brothers is at their expense every day. What's most interesting is that Dragan Gilas is now the man you're not talking about. Since the court's decision has made a solution prohibiting individual media from writing about Dragan Gilas and mentioning his name, we are in a position to prohibit people from doing their job. These are people who deal with investigative journalism. So, he's trying to introduce a verbal delinquent in Serbia as a criminal act, and what would that be -- the crime of assaulting the image and the act of honest Dragan Gilas? Even if his name were not mentioned, I believe that there are so many descriptions that would directly associate Serbian citizens with the character and work of that man - a Serbian politician called 619 million or a Serbian politician who is acting to cry in front of cameras or a man who introduced a reality program into Serbia or a man whose media shows the territory of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, the leader of the alliance for Serbia's destruction, the man who filed the most lawsuits against the media and politicians, the man who can tell each of us what he wants, can at a daily level insult us and humiliate us in his media, and I guess we should be silent and nod at all. Every time anyone wonders why the name Dragan Gilas is mentioned so many times in the House of the People's Assembly, although he is not physically present here, let them take a look at his newspaper, his portals and the portals of his friends, and the citizens of Serbia know perfectly what portals it is, and let them see how much insult on the daily level has been expressed, above all, at the expense of the president and at the expense of his family, and then at the expense of all of us. I would also refer to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is practically in line with the Digital Property Act, but I would take advantage of the opportunity to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, in July of this year, when the Money Laundering Authority announced financial control of the business of individuals and institutions, at that moment there was all the noise and hysteria of those who, like the man they're not talking about, do not want anyone to control their business, do not want anyone to have insight into what they do, do business, do they respect regulations and whether they pay taxes. These are people who think they're untouchable and who, most interestingly, criticise both the state and the government for enforcing the law. To finish my presentation today with a more beautiful topic, which is the Belgrade water project. The very importance of the project is reflected in the fact that today the project is supported by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, people were skeptical and the project itself supported only 29% of people, and today the project is supported by 70% of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the largest construction site in Serbia, and that is how SNS works and we continue to work in that direction, to fight for human health, for the preservation of the economy, for every job and to work and build Serbia for our children. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1603	Thank you. The next word has a folk MP, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1604	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the fact that on the agenda today we have a set of very significant laws and they mainly concern property, i.e. property rights from different aspects, to say, so I will look back at some of the laws, although we have heard a lot today. Some of these legal acts actually represent, as we have heard, harmonising with existing laws, some of which are the adoption of relegal legislation since there has not been so far, such as the case of digital property, or so on. Virtual assets. This is very important, therefore, that through the institutions of the system, firstly through the legal framework, this issue is regulated and thus will certainly contribute to reducing abuse on any basis. This is, as we've heard, literally a branch that's on the rise in the world, and it's very important for us that it has its own legal currents. On the other hand, the issue of fiscalization through one new, more modern form is very important, and if in one word we wanted to point to, let's say, the importance of this law, then we could all say that efficiency is at stake. In fact, the adoption of this law will actually make it more efficient and up-to-date, let's say, to define the revenues themselves towards the budget, on the other hand, and other bonds in this regard. It is very important here to be absolutely principled, as we have heard that this law, in fact, is the fiscalization itself of strong support for the country's economy and on the right footing of the fight against the gray economy. It's very important, therefore, that there's simply no one to be excluded from just the letters of the law, or large businessmen, to say, or companies that operate with single capital, or any craftsman or anyone who might hold a smaller shop. As regards, otherwise, the tax law itself, the Justice and Reconciliation party has repeatedly pointed out that, in this respect, it is also very important to have a bearing on the tax bonds themselves through different types of subsidies, aid, somewhere by cutting taxes, somewhere free from taxes, if possible, such as rural households, particularly villages that are above 600 metres above sea level, etc. So, in this direction, we certainly need to try to take advantage of all opportunities and potentials. The law that I would particularly like to address is the question of the law on restitution and compensation. In fact, this law is very, very important. It is significant from the aspect of the state itself, but also from the physical, or legal persons who are looking for something. So for the state, it is a very important issue of property rights, because it is somewhere a prerequisite for the rule of law and the general rule of law. In this way, the state actually shows concern for its citizens, their property. On the other hand, the questions of demand in this domain are very, very large. In particular, I will refer to the question of demand or restitution of assets heading towards religious communities. The fact is that religious communities in the Republic of Serbia are looking for a lot of property. In some religious communities, it was more successfully solved, as is the case with the SPC where about 90% is, perhaps also returned, which is certainly commendable. We welcome that, but we believe that other religious communities should be treated in a similar direction. However, this is the previous government and has proved to be a good will, since it has begun to address the issue of restitution, so-called. A natural restitution to the Islamic community that also requires a lot of, a lot of property. In fact, as I said myself, in the last term, the government has shown good will. We hope that, in fact, it will continue in this direction, because only breaking up, that is, the secession of the Islamic community in 2007 was intended to in some way disable or slow it down. Here, this is exactly the indicator, so how it can be constructed in that field. That is why we expect even more concrete results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1605	Thank you, Professor Missali Pramenkovic. I'm going to ask you, since I'm very uncomfortable, we don't see in the system if anyone has a title, I'm going to ask you to report you next time or ask for a word, if you'd like to point out, that you're a doctor. (Missala Pramenkovic: Thank you. ) Next is Justina Pupin Koscal's National MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1606	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-operation, respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like from today's debate to draw up a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists. The extensive changes in this law that are ahead of us concern a very important area, which is the digital property that is treated with this law as a possible source of money laundering, illegal money acquisition or abuse of digital funding for terrorist financing. What is important is to point out that our legislator recognises the danger of the possible use of virtual money for money laundering and terrorist financing, which has already been recognised by European legislation. As the world faces terrorism in the 20th and 21st centuries as an extremely complex social problem of global proportions, international attempts, plans and actions to organised counter terrorism as the largest and most severe form of political violence, which unfortunately does not know the borders. Terrorism is always inspired by political goals, i.e. it always comes from political intentions and exists in the field of politics, regardless of what form and vision appears. Today, in addition to war conflicts that leave fatal consequences for humanity, terrorism can be seen as the greatest security threat and as terrorists say, the goal of terrorism is to cause fear, using violence as a method, and citizens and government as targets. To survive, terrorist groups have a very important material basis for them, or finance. They use all available financial models to ensure the economic side of terrorism. Therefore, I would reiterate this, very important that every legal state, apart from security protection from terrorism, must always bear in mind the financial models that can be used, in addition to financing terrorism. As digitisation in all spheres of social life brings the newspaper, so as a new concept of several years ago, the concept of digital property, or digital money, appears in various forms, which is traded through different digital platforms. We are familiar with the concept of digital property through the cryptocurrency or virtual money, and in Serbia, those who organise digital property transactions have been emerging for a long time. That is why Serbia needed to bring this concept and content relating to digital property into its legal system. This fills the legal gap and regulates non-legislative relations, while at the same time bringing domestic legislation into line with already established international standards and the EU legal order. The main reason for standardising this area for the whole world is certainly to prevent terrorist financing through this form of financial transactions. The installation of digital assets, i.e. virtual money in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, is of paramount importance precisely because the way in which digital money is acquired and moved can be monitored in this way. This bill introduces the necessary concepts and regulates the processes it transmits and from the roof of the Digital Property Act. The law very precisely regulates all procedures and procedures relating to digital property and introduces restrictive measures that prevent the abuse of digital coins in order to launder illegally acquired money or finance terrorism. This seems to first of all to the provisions of the laws which prescribe that the provider of services related to digital assets is obliged to obtain all the information provided by law on all persons participating in transactions with digital assets. This prevents transactions from involving unknown persons, i.e. persons with unknown or false identity who could use that virtual money to fund terrorism or any other form of illegal use of digital property. The law is restrictive for all organisers of transactions with digital assets, but also for persons participating in transactions, which is a legal defense against abuse and illegal business in this area. I believe that the proposed legal solutions are good and that they open a new legal space for also new, organised forms against money laundering and against terrorism. Now it remains to provide personnel and material resources that will professionally and consecratedly implement this law. In the end, I want to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1607	Thank you. Next, according to the application for the word, is MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1608	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, there is a set of laws ahead of us, and among them is the Law on the extension of the deadline for the expropriation of land related to "Belgrade on Water", which is somewhere and logically due to the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. As I come from the capital, I hope that the citizens of Serbia and even fellow MPs will not mind why today's exposure will be devoted to Belgrade. Two days ago, a scandalous interview by Boris Dežulovic, who called our capital, our Belgrade, a muddy cassab, Stefan Nemanja Baron Stefan Minhauzen, and with many more ugly words and offensive words insulted our capital, all under the promotion of his new novel, which I cannot even pronounce, because home education does not allow it. It would be no wonder that the interview came out in another country and came under the condemnation of the entire Serbian public, but this interview and this text came out in Serbia's Sunday, and there was a lack of opposition leaders' reaction. Dragan Gilas has been mayor of Belgrade for six years, and not only has he not condemned this mentioned text, but in all the media under his control has promoted this interview. While he was mayor, he treated Belgrade as if it were mud, a sad selander, as Dežulovic would say. It is sad how Dragan Gilas treated Belgrade as well as Belgrade. The city's budget was adapted to him, not to the needs of the citizens. The bridge on Adi, the one that makes Dragan Gilas the most high, cost an incredible 400m euros, and that's probably his biggest pride, because in the future we're only going to find out how much budget funds have been put into private pockets through this project. If we take comparisons for the world, the highest bridge, located in France is 2.5 times longer than the bridge on Ada and it is 2,460 meters long, and the bridge on Adi 929 meters, the bridge in France is 343 meters high, the bridge on Adi 200 meters and the bridge in France has only seven pilons, and our bridge has only one and cost 390 million, and the bridge on Adi 400, then you realize how unrealisticly large the budget for this project was. The Belgrade city's defence office filed a report a few days ago against the NN face of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and on the Ada bridge project. The bridge work contracts make it clear that 2.5m euros have been paid on behalf of the commission to obtain the job. In translation, they put bribes on obtaining this 2.5m-euro job. A Greek company has gone 2.5m euros, and this could have been a new kindergarten in our city. The Belgrade citizens remember very well the multimillion-dollar corruption affairs of Dragan Gilas about the purchase of underground containers, Spanish trams, the kidnapping of the Pionir Park to children, as well as that mockery from Pazl City. When the SNS took over in Belgrade, the public debt of the capital amounted to more than 1.1 billion euros. Debts in the area of social protection were over five million dinars and these debts to those who needed the help most. These are users of social assistance who have been late giving for over a year, users of folk cuisine, pregnant women and maternity care, sensitive categories of our society. Today all these debts are settled, and the city of this obligation is regularly at peace. This is just a few examples of Dragan Gilasa as mayor. Today he and his brother insult us in the worst possible way and in all personal insults directed to the president of the state, but also to all of us sitting here, most of Serbia's normal and decent are responding to the work and efforts that citizens recognize very well, but that Dežulović, Gilas and similar insults to him both the city and history cannot allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1609	Thank you. Next up is Nina Pavicevic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is six minutes and 52 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1610	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister with an associate, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today I will speak on behalf of the SPS about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Property. To remind you, public property is made up of three forms. These are the rights of property of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. State property, right of ownership of AP i.e. provincial property and the right to property of local self-government, municipal and city property. The registration of the right of public property and the right to use shall be entered in the public books laid down by the law, and shall be governed by the Katastre Service. The existing Public Property Act, which was adopted in 2011, has often been amended. This time, it is about the changes that are primarily the removal of the shortcomings observed in the current application of the law in the work relating to the acquisition or alienation of public property immovableity and the need to bring legal regulation into line with developments in the immovable market. In fact, it has been observed that in recent years the market values of immovable property have changed frequently, due to the relationship between supply and demand for real estate, and therefore the value of real estate that is in public property, and thus the property of the state, province, city and local self-government. The applicable law provided that the value of immovable property was assessed by either the tax authority or the licensed evaluator, there is no time limit. So it happened that the real estates either alienated or purchased had once established values which, after time, became marketable and valuablely unrealistic, often much lower. Therefore, this change is necessary in order to ensure that state immovableities do not lose value and are left at inappropriate prices. In this way, the value of state property will not be lost and there will be no estrangement at non-market prices. This amendment of the law provides that the restriction on the validity of the assessment of the market value of the immovable property will be for two years. So, according to a new legal solution after every two years, a new estimate of the value of immovableity will be carried out. Market movements will also be monitored, but other parameters that can affect the price will be more realistic, such as the state of real estate, the value of investments and others. This provides a more flexible market model, which is much more responsible for protecting public property. This change is the result of the state's responsible relationship to its assets, which in the end has been earned by the money of our taxpayers. Non-movable things can be obtained in public property through the pasture of legal work, inheritance, gift or unilateral declaration of will, expropriation, as well as in the tax, bankruptcy and other procedures regulated by a special law. By obtaining immovable stuff, it is also considered to be an exchange of immovableity, building objects, and immovable things can also be obtained or alienated by means of a direct contract. It is therefore important for this value to be market-real in all these cases, which will be achieved by the proposed legal solution by which the market value will apply for two years. The second amendment of the law applies in the manner of enrollment in the public property of the property which has been subject to restitution, but for which, under the law, it has been established that they cannot be returned to owners in natural form, but through monetary compensation. Another case is when, on the basis of legal criteria, a request for restitution has been rejected. According to the current legal solution in these two cases, the property can be registered as public, provided that the catastroy provides a solution to the refusal of the restitution request or a solution to the compensation of the old owner by means of cash. For the sake of more efficient handling of this property, the law provides that the registration of these assets as public property may be carried out and if those solutions have not been delivered to the catastro, but if, in addition to the request for registration of the property, a confirmation to the Agency for Restitution that the return of the property to the former owner was not possible in natural form, in accordance with the law governing the return of the seized property. The Agency for Restitution as responsible for the conduct of this restitution process will now provide evidence that it is not possible to restore the immovableity in its natural form, not a cadastre, or the Republic Geodetic Institute, which has so far had to do so, although it was not in its jurisdiction. This resolves the issue of jurisdiction and thus the legality of the procedure. There are also cases where an application for return of immovable property, i.e. for restitution, has not been submitted within the legal time limit, in accordance with the law. The third amendment to the law refers to the extension of the time limit for the application of the law for the registration of property rights to immovable property. By law, the deadline for the unit of local self-government, provinces, public enterprises, companies of capital and their subsidiaries to apply for registration of public property rights expires on 31 December 2020, so for two weeks. Since this number of subjects will not be able to submit an application for registration, in addition to the difficulties of pandemic Covid 19, the deadline will be extended by another year, so until December 31st, 2021. Otherwise, those who did not apply would lose their right to property, which would cause huge damage to state property. All these amendments to the Public Property Act will contribute to a more efficient and responsible management of the state, i.e. public property, which has a huge value in buildings and land, whether it is a state, province or local level. For these reasons, the SPS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support this, as well as other legislation on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1611	Thank you very much and I especially thank you for sticking to the planned time for your parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1612	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, most of the laws we have on the agenda today concern tax policies and are of importance to the country's economy and economy. My discussion today will refer to tax reliefs that were current back a few years, and here we see that they are now extending and valid during 2021. Tax relief and a reduction of tax burden are of paramount importance for strengthening the economy of a country. During 2020, the state showed its responsible policy concern about the economy. So for the first time in history, the state has shown equal concern for both public and state sector employees and private sector employees. As important as the state of the economy is for one environment, it's my fellow citizens, the citizens of Bosilegrad municipality, where I come from, they know best. So, by shutting down the economy and closing down the factories 20 years ago, my Bosilegrad municipality has suffered the catastrophic consequences my fellow citizens are still struggling with today. As a consequence, we have unemployment, poverty, misery, economic migration, empty villages and empty schools. People without a job, healthy and real, working skills, are forced to move from our neighborhoods, and young people do it most often. Those who are in middle-aged years, when it is not easy to move, despite being able to work and not have a job, are in social need and are burdened by the Serbian state's budget. They receive a certain amount of compensation, just how much to survive, no employment, no taxes and no contributions. As a result, Bosilegrad has lost nearly half of his population over the past 20 years, and the trend continues. It's all threatening to die of my community. What should we do? What's to be done to save small places like this, to keep people out there and reduce the pressure of emigration towards big cities? The position of my municipality is in the far southeast of Serbia. So, even though it's located in extremely beautiful areas, it's away from major traffic, it's dislocated, it's away from the railways and from the big centres, and as such it's not tempting for investors. Investors don't show interest because of the increased costs of jobs in the environment like ours. What should we do? First, to build a road and other infrastructure, which is the main prerequisite for the arrival of investors. Secondly, increased tax reliefs for investors who invest money and open jobs in communities like ours. Third, increased subsidies for new employment, a lower threshold for the number of newly employed and a lower threshold for the amount of investment. Fourth, grants for construction and supply of equipment. For example, during 2020, the amount of grants for the purchase of equipment in undeveloped municipalities in relation to the amount of refunds was 30 – 70, and this ratio should be 50 – 50, or even better 70 – 30 in favour of the amount of grants. This would create conditions for undeveloped municipalities, such as ours, to be competitive and tempting to investors, on the one hand, and on the other hand to be attractive to the lives of their fellow citizens. Migration was and will be. But let's make them migrate and go those who want to, and help those who don't want to move to their neighborhoods, stay under their roof over their heads, not go to a world where there will be eternal tenants, stay in their houses, among their people, with their family, to stay where birds will wake them, not city noises, sirens and noises from emptying containers. If we look back a few generations in my space for the past 50 or 60 years, what kind of picture do we have? First, the people in the villages who sacrificed themselves and their lives, the fathers who built, built, created a base for their future generations, then their sons because of the difficult conditions for living in the villages came down to the cities when factories opened, where they were employed and they started again from scratch and they were rebuilding, working, creating, again for their children. In the end, when their children, i.e. The grandchildren arrived, they were forced to leave their neighborhoods again, to move. Hand to heart, the state of Serbia singles out a solid amount of money for our municipality, only that money instead of going to investment, it mostly goes to the social and other priorities that local self-government itself defines. That way we drop the temperature, and the cause of the problem is not solved. That's how we've had people in social need for years. So this way we need to help these people, instead of living off the welfare, to live off their work, to have paid taxes and contributions, to have a job internship and that one day they can retire peacefully. So, if only part of the funds that the state of Serbia allocates for undeveloped municipalities is being rerouted to these purposes, it will in a short time give effect. Thus, it will revive the economy in these parts, give people a chance to stay alive and work in their regions and live on the work and results of their work. That's why I, in my own name, and on behalf of the citizens of Bosilegrad, who are almost 99% members of the Bulgarian national minority, and are loyal citizens of their country to Serbia, ask that all of this I have brought to mind and that you help municipalities like ours, and I think there are more in Serbia, to save such places and to keep people in those areas. Finally, to point out that in the voting day, I will support a set of laws that we have on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1613	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. Next reported is Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1614	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, the whole set of laws that we are adopting today is the product or experience of using already existing laws, so there is an improvement or alignment with the regulations of the European Union. This set of laws will support the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day, and I would like to explain why it is two laws. First of all, I'll start with the Digital Property Bill. Since my predecessors have said enough about this, I'm going to try to say something that hasn't been said. So when we talk about something that's digital, we're actually thinking and talking about something that's virtual, so this digital property is often called virtual property, and it's actually a digital record that has a certain value that can be bought digitally or electronically, sold, exchanged or transmitted, or traded in a word. One type of digital property is also a virtual currency. It's usually called a cryptocurrency, and that currency is neither betrayed nor guaranteed by the Central Bank for its value. So, this currency has no legal status, no money, no currency, but it's physical and washed faces that accept as a means of exchange and can therefore be traded. In the world, the digital property market is growing dizzy and these are actually reasons for the adoption of this law, because our goal is to move forward with modern trends in global digital and electronic business. The first virtual currency called bitcoin occurs in early 2009 in the wake of the global economic crisis. Today it is often called digital gold, whose current value is around 19,400 dollars today, and next to it there are dozens of virtual currencies that have a much smaller share in the world market. Since we're talking about currency here, I have to say that this is not about any legal means of payment, because the dinar remains the only means of payment in the Republic of Serbia, and in addition, there is a ban on digital property being transferred directly from the consumer to the trader, i.e. that goods and services in retail are paid in digital property, but this is about an indirect means of payment, because this law introduces a service of acceptance. the transfer of digital assets from the consumer to the trader, through specialised service providers authorised by the supervisory authority to provide this service that will only transfer dinars to the current account, not digital property. So here, when we look at this user experience, it's going to be exactly the same as when we pay the goods directly by digital property. It's all done on the Internet today, on mobile phones in real time. In addition to this, the proposed legal solutions also create legal certainty and we currently have several companies operating on our market and these companies are mostly unregulated, which creates certain practical problems that we have talked about, so let's not mention them. And those who want to invest and trade on this market are now getting the kind of security they need to say, much safer sailing these waters. So this law in a comprehensive and detailed way regulates the issue and trade of digital trade and we will support it in the voting day. The second law to be added to the previous one is the bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. I should mention here that, among the bonds of this law, there have been persons dealing with the provision of services related to virtual currency, and that on a proposal from the NBS, which, together with the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, recognized the importance of new unregulated entities on our market even before the adoption of so-called. The fifth EU directive, adopted on 30 May 2018, amending and supplementing the 2019 law, has expanded this cycle and thus these activities are subject to the intense interest of regulators. Therefore, certain control and supervision of the provision of these services are carried out which must fulfil all obligations concerning the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as any other bond, including the identification of the party in a regulated manner. This is where the so-called "introduction" is planned. video identification. The reasons for the adoption of this law lie in line with the previous law governing digital property, since, in addition to virtual currencies introduced into the system in 2017, digital tokens as a type of digital property are now being arranged, licensing, business and supervision of the business of service providers, especially in relation to the issue of investment tokens which were not covered by the previous law and which present the paper in our legislation. In addition, this law ensures compliance with international standards, and legal certainty in this area will also contribute to attracting foreign investment. This is why this is all and this other law will support the JS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1615	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1616	Thank you. I, in my speech, Vice President, will refer first of all to one law, to the proposal for a fiscalization law. Although I am deeply aware of the fact that the Republic of Serbia, and in terms of digital infrastructure, has invested a lot and created preconditions practically that we have now become leaders in this new wave of reform laws and all that we need to do practically in the next time period. So the fiscalisation process itself and the overall reform and the Tax Administration and all others, let me say, the elements in the country go much easier and much more concrete than the basic assumptions that mean that we are our digital infrastructure and from everything that we have done so far and the new Data Centre in Kragujevac, and in general all the tools that go through, let me say, and the Ministry of Finance, but on the other hand and through the Office for the IT Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have practically introduced new tools and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy, businesses are increasingly using these tools in a certain way and business and functioning is much easier. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has its financial benefits in terms of income that it can collect all the easier and easier to reach those funds that may not have been seen in the right way. What is important to point out in all of this is that in this new meeting of the Assembly, we continue with reforms and, as we see, we have practically already several sessions, by the Ministry of Finance, which is what regular laws, which are currently going in this direction, as announced in Prime Minister Brnabic's exhibition, which has announced numerous reforms, also announced a new phase of digitisation and how all of these, I say, are in line in terms of Serbia's progress. When we look at this law today that we are considering, we see that we are now entering a new era, into a new era of fiscalisation, which in any case, as the Minister in introductory presentation and explanation, not only because of the time period, because of the fact that the fiscalisation law is back in 2004, it is, as far as I know, once completed in 2012, but also because of other innovations, primarily in the server, in a digital sense, and all for the purpose of just increasing income, in terms of increasing VAT collection and better financial control in the business segment of all business entities in the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, at the outset, we need to remove all possible barriers and speculations in this matter, that this is some new imposition on the economy, on the public, on all those already operating practically in 2004 through this story of the famous fiscal registers. We have heard the Minister well in the opening statement, but it is important to point out repeatedly here at the tide that everyone who follows this transmission realizes that the economy, business in the Republic of Serbia since 2022, when this law is implemented, we will adopt it, if God does this week, but when it comes to implementation, it will be well prepared both for all sublaws and, most importantly, to answer the question whether it will be a new imposition on business, on all persons who are engaged in any action. The answer is very simple, as you can see in the legal text itself and the justification is defined to allocate funds, about eight billion dinars, which will allow all economic operators to practically make it possible for this electronic unit of system integrated into the Tax Administration to be, not a new burden, but a practical relief in the way all economic operators operate, whether they were small, whether medium or large. That's what's very important to point out. As for this and when we know this fact that since 2004, we have practically not adopted this law, except for this change in 2012, there are still certain reasons that have been, in fact, physically disrupting a faster and more fruitful work of all economic operators in the Republic of Serbia. I'm just gonna name a few, but I've had intense communication these days, I've been asking around, I've been listening to the minister today, and I'd never put myself in a position to vote for any law without knowing it's good for the economy. Indeed, when you go taxing, when you list one segment at a time, you see how old this law is in its application and how certain server solutions are, above all, in the Tax Administration, obsolete. We have this server, is it so, Minister, since 2004, when Serbia may have been among the first to send fiscal deposits to that server in the Tax Administration and these repeated procedures of sending these data at that time may have been consistent in 2004, but we are now at the end of 2020 and these server solutions cannot meet the needs of both the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the state of Serbia, in terms of expectations of higher tax revenues. So we have to go to innovative solutions and these are exactly the solutions that are being announced here only through this legal text. We will sublegal acts and communicate with all entities so that no one is damaged in this kind, i.e. that the damage that potentially exists in terms of transition, because this is one reform, as someone rebelled in 2004, when the first fiscal cash registers were introduced, so they told us what it would be easier to send, so the revenues increased more and more, but they came to some limit when with the best fiscal policy, with the best economic policy you can't get to those revenues that would be achieved with better software, with better server solutions in terms of everything that the Republic of Serbia has today for need. So for that reason, I'm going to say one of those examples, these are those double strips that are completely superfluous. There's no such thing in the world anymore. It looks small and simple. Imagine now that someone comes, some stranger, is now a pandemic of the coronary virus and there is, unfortunately, a lot of tourism, but that looks pretty naive today when you look at it. You see, on the one hand, we promote digitization, and on the other hand, we have some kind of fiscalization where we do a lot of stunting. I wouldn't forget, Minister, and that kind of fiscalization from 2004. When it was done this upside down, they have a lot of examples that can tell exactly who put the mustache on? Well, they've polluted the mustache just those representatives of the former government, the yellow ministers, different businesses in which different companies have been favored, let the Galeb group here say, where they called, say, from the Chamber of Commerce, that they're taking the very fiscal cash registers. Well, somebody had good commissions, you know. Perhaps a day today and some solutions that are not good for the state of Serbia are picking up an extra profit that has been drawn from that period. Therefore, what is the message that the Serbian Government today via the finance ministry, through the Tax Administration, through these new solutions that are being announced? We are ready to take things completely into our own hands and, with new solutions, come up with increased new incomes in terms of better and more quality VAT collection, more VAT collection. So, the larger item in the budget on this basis, that means more hospitals, more roads, and more public spending in terms of raising pensions, wages and everything else. Therefore, we must take care of our incomes, we must make sure that certain reform moves that are now being announced will perhaps cause some confusion among those who want to produce such an effect in order to impose some new fear on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, no fear, we're going gradually for a year with the adaptation of sublegal acts, the software and server tools needed for these improvements are being developed, and in this context, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or all those working in the economy, don't need to think that in the next period of time, the simplest thing to say is, they're going to have to buy some new fiscal cash register. So there's no new fiscal register, it's going to be a new electronic unit. I suppose, Minister, that it will look different, that it will not look like this fiscal register we see today and that in this sense their costs and everything else will be able to be used much more effectively. Also, what the report was sent every 15 days, you initially explained and said that sending the report every 15 days just meant that we were here, that we couldn't do the analysis on a daily basis as we could in new software and server solutions to do. Therefore, we will be able to monitor our incomes in terms of an integrated system that we will be able to establish from 2022 on a daily basis, and the daily level implies a daily level of security. The daily level of security means monthly, annual and each other. So, no surprises. So when we adopt the budget, when we adopt certain plans and the laws that follow them, we can certainly say everything we have said these days, that we know that Serbia is going to go stable ahead, that we know what revenue will have. When we have optimism in terms of budget planning for 2021, for 2022, the medium-term budget item and the plans that are being made, we know how we're going to get there. One way is this. So, with this pay phone, I'm telling everyone, what I read today in this law, that the Ministry of Finance is not going with any ad hoc solutions, but is going with those solutions that are just going to mean that everything that needs to happen gradually in the next period of time, will not lead to new costs for all those who have fiscal tills, but that the state of Serbia will practically allocate eight billion funds that will allow everyone to work more efficiently, more transparently and easily, in terms of both cost reduction and efficiency for their business to be better, it will be easier to do so over the next period of time. Here, one of the data I've received is that on the existing fiscal registers you couldn't make discounts, you've already had to do a previous level of all the prices to make discounts on certain goods. So these are all small things that will practically help this integrated system a lot easier, let's just say, I'm going to pull out only one branch, traders to do what they did in the administration, in the business, in going to the accountant for a lot of time. Time is money, and that money needs someone to make money. If you have to go to the accountant all the time, it's clear you're losing money on the other side. Thus, an integrated system, a serious plan and a new, more serious and quality reform of fiscalisation will lead to an increase in budget items, more VAT collection and stronger and stronger Serbia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1617	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word has the life of Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1618	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in the debate we could often hear concepts such as digital property, such as cryptacurrency, bitcoin, token, etc. Tomorrow we will talk about a beautiful and very useful project called Connected School where we will hear concepts such as digital classrooms, digital school, wireless local network, etc. All these discussions talk about the world, including Serbia, from the beginning of the 21st century, definitely from an industrial era to an information era, that is, from an industrial society to an information society. In fact, we are all aware that today we are talking about modern laws that will regulate many new processes and phenomena that are related to the era that we live in, that is, information society. Also, we are all aware that there is a market for digital assets, a market for crypts. What would be the task of the state, and especially of your ministry, the respected ministers, is to explain to the people, or to the citizens of Serbia, in a simple and understandable way what crypts are, what digital property is. A little while in his presentation, my colleague from my Single Serbia MP group, Nenad Filipovic, tried to tell us what the crypts were, however, I don't consider myself to be a formal ignorant, on the contrary, but I don't think it's clear to the citizens what cryptics are. So perhaps your ministry could launch a campaign and explain to the citizens of Serbia what it is for the simple reason that all citizens know about classical currency, that it rests on cover, gold reserves, foreign reserves, to rest on the power of the central bank, on the economic development of the state. Also, all citizens know that if the classic currency of the press without cover goes inflation, there goes the decline in the value of classical currencies, and simply what happens to the cryptocurrency. For that reason, somewhere I suggest you run this campaign and explain it to people, for the simple reason that I know a lot of people who have invested a lot of money in so-called. Cryptocurrency digging machines and things like that, they went into some business where, less or less, everyone, and those who earned and those who failed during the job, there are both people and others I know, were wandering around in the fog somewhere, and for the simple reason, it's all a pretty big misunderstanding in public. For this reason, and for the reason that this market is a cryptocurrency one of the fastest growing markets today. And you said yourself that somewhere around $750 billion a year is being traded with a bitcoin, that this stock market is going to grow very to 1,700 billion, so I listened very carefully. What I've read is that in this entire volume of trade, 46% of the trade and the transactions of bitcoins are in a gray or illegal zone. That is why it is good that today we are making amendments to the law on money laundering and financing terrorism for the simple reason that in this way we will not only bring this law in line with the law we were talking about at the beginning, with the Digital Property Act, but also includes the recommendations of the FATF international organisation dealing with money laundering and terrorist financing. Given that I have said for a moment that a large number of transactions in that gray or illegal zone, this law is important for the simple reason that the whole world today has a problem with terrorism, it also has Serbia. We know, it's already clear how they financed, sometimes the UCK and the ANA, that it was some non-profit organization where money was collected from abroad, there were also political parties that financed them, but there were also illegal businesses such as arms trafficking, drugs, etc. Today, yesterday, we were able to read the news in the newspaper that a site was found in Germany, though on a dark web, not on ordinary search engines, where he was completely normal and transparently selling drugs for bitcoins. So that we as a state can see these transactions and that we can prevent these illegal acts from drug trafficking, weapons, etc. to the financing of terrorism, which is very important, we are talking about these laws today, and I think these laws are very important. For this reason, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will also vote for these two laws, as well as for the whole set of laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1619	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1620	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, today we have a set of laws that are important and bear a certain weight, and in order not to repeat themselves with previous speakers, I will talk about a law relating to an increase in the subscription for public media service and other law, a bill amending the Expropriation Act on the issue of a building permit for the project and as part of the Belgrade water project. When we talk about a public media service and this increase in 44 dinar fee, I'll agree it's justified and I think the colleagues who discussed it very well before me explained it. However, what we need to look at is the fact that the citizens have been discussing for some time, something that has been said over the past month, and that is the fact that 50% of Serbia's citizens in sports have not been able to watch the RTS match of our football team to go to Europe primarily. What particularly irritates citizens is the fact that the only channel you could watch that game on is a channel belonging to the United Group and it's about that question that my colleague Sandra Christmas asked. So citizens today and during this session ask an open question. So national selection matches must be broadcast by television with national frequencies, which is certainly not the media. The question arises whether again we will be in a situation where in March, when qualifications for the World Cup are launched in football, in Qatar in 2022, media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas have the sole and exclusive right to pass on these matches, while 50% of the citizens will wind up or listen to radio and broadcast. It's something to think about, to discuss. Far from any of us wanting to interfere with editorial policy or to create a RTS programme, but this is a question that bothers all of our country's citizens and I put this question on behalf of them today, so that they know what awaits us in the next period. Speaking of sports and football, a very nice thing happened today for our country. In India, someone mentioned it, there was a cornerstone for Tojo Tyres' tire factory. The value of the investment is 328m euros. The factory is expected to employ between 500 and 600 people. For certain media, however, especially portals under the direct control of Dragan Gilas is not news. The news is that the laying of the foundation stone was attended by Dragan Stojković Pixi, and since a few hours ago, this man is the subject of a terrible campaign, where this man is being dragged through the mud, satanized and has already become the bot of Alexander Vukic, the SNS, already mocking him and so quickly forgotten everything that man has done for our country as a football player. Let's get this straight. I'm not a fan, nor do I support the clubs that Dragan Stojkovic Pixie was playing for, I'm rooting for partisan, but this is about something else. So any other athlete, actor, artist, anyone who only does something good for our country is immediately the subject of Satanization and is immediately the subject of terrible attacks just because he attended a project or the opening of a project that is of national importance. For people who do not know, Dragan Stojkovic Pixi spent 13 years in Japan, there is a living legend, so it is quite logical and we must be proud that he was present today to lay the cornerstone of a Japanese company. It's amazing that it's enough to satanicize a man like that just because he's proud of something our country does and does. I'm just wondering if now the elite or that part of the elite that's always advertised will now stand in the defense of that man? As for the Expropriation and Building Authorisation Act for "Belgrade on Water", I think it is a topic that is of general importance not only for people living in Belgrade, but for all citizens of Serbia. One of my previous colleagues talked about what problems you all, first of all you, Mr. Minister, were then the mayor, faced when we set out in that project. I remember in 2012, when Mr. Rudolph Giuliani came along, when it was all just an idea, I remember when many of them challenged it, saying that this project would never be realized. The project was attacked only because they were unable to bring Belgrade down to the rivers and create something like "Belgrade on Water". That none of us are lying, does not invent the fact that the former mayor is one of the strongest critics of this project, in 2009 he presented in Cannes on March 12th a model of "Beograda na Voda", only then it was called "The City of Water" and he promised to finish it during his term and it was an ideal project for him. However, as things changed, he changed his story and never spoke of it again. What is particularly interesting is the fact that when it was right for him and when he thought it could bring him some political point, in 2013, Dragan Gilas said -- "Belgrade on water" and the metro will change the city's picture. So in 2013, when he thought he could provide himself with some better political status or political point, he supported the project. It is interesting that he also mentioned the metro, but not for the first time, but for the tenth, because the metro promised the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia both 2008 and 2010 and 2012, but never did anything in the field. Here you can see how hypocritical the attacks on "Belgrade on Water" have been and how much this entire campaign against this state project has been planned and prepared in advance. To make the paradox even bigger and complete the whole fake painting they made, he made an effort in 2018 when he said in the campaign that "Belgrade on Water" would never be finished. Now all of us who can get out of here in about 20 minutes to get to the Sava Promenade or go down to the "Biograda on Water" should trust Dragan Gilas or trust our own eyes? You, Mr. Minister, have said nicely, "Belgrade on Water" is not just a project that currently employs more than 2,000 people at a construction site that is the largest in this part of Europe. "Belgrade on Water" is not only that, "Belgrade on Water" is a new picture of both Belgrade and Serbia. Instead of cemeteries of ships, as you can see, instead of abandoned rafts that served as the gathering of the worst people in this town, the broken barracks that were the property of snakes, rats, where various other ugly things were happening and abandoned wagons that no one ever wanted to regulate, arrange or fix. The Serbian Progressive Party then, as early as 2012, came out with a brave "Belgrade on Water" project and no one believed us then, people challenged it, support was even below 20%. As the work progresses, as the project gets its final outlines, the support in the people grows, so you can see magnificent objects that show a completely different picture of both Belgrade and Serbia. One of his previous speakers said he was coming from Vranjska Banja, I think, and he was thrilled when he first went to Sava Promenade. Dear fellow, everyone who came beyond the borders of our country, the first thing he wanted to see after Calemegdan, the National Museum, which, behold, was shut down because of them for more than a decade was both "Belgrade on Water" and Sava Promenade. It's a picture created by the SNS, and it's a picture where you can clearly see that the promises we make to keep. With the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, which was based on concrete words that are being carried out in action, today we have a situation that we can be proud that everyone who comes to our country praises this project and that this project symbolizes what our country and our city is turning into. As an SNS MP, I would just like to invite all MPs to support these laws, because these laws best paint in which direction we move as a country, as a society and best prove that we want to create from Belgrade and Serbia a place where our children, in which generations of people come, want to live. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1621	Thank you. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1622	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda is a very important set of laws, and when we look at the agenda points, we see among them new laws, such as the proposal for a law on digital property, and there are points dealing with changes and additions to existing laws that will allow for more efficient and meaningful application of them. I would particularly stick to the third item of the agenda, which refers to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the return of seized property and compensation. I'll try to explain why it's important. Since the existing law does not specify the provisions relating to the payment of compensation advances, these amendments and additions shall be governed by the dynamics of the payment of the same ones. By today, the Agency for Restitution has rightly completed about 80% of the procedures required for the refund of the assets in respect of natural restitution and about 10% of the compensation procedures. The proposed amendments and additions to this law will create conditions for the Government to determine the compensation coefficient, and after that, the Agency for Restitution will initiate the process of adopting a decision on the amount of the compensation to be paid to citizens or in the form of bonds or payment in cash. These amendments and amendments to the law also allow the planning of the exact amount of funding that will be defined in the coming years and will be provided specifically from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The importance of these measures is reflected, above all, in the fact that they are driven by public interest and enable equal treatment of all parties in the process and must not be ignored and the fact that the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Serbia and the economic growth recorded by our country and in the future remains stable and that this economic growth will continue to grow continuously. As the fight for a better future is one of the main tasks that we have set for ourselves, which is why we are shown citizens' trust, we must not forget some mistakes from the past and we must learn and try to correct them. The amendments to this law allow us to do just that. They allow us to correct the historical injustice that was done in Serbia after World War II by forced nationalisation of property, but to show that we are a legal state, because, as you know, we will close one part of Chapter 23 in negotiations with the EU, because it is clearly indicated that one of the sources of corruption in Serbia is certainly a restitution. This should not be the main and only reason for amending and supplementing this law, but rather show that we are thus responsible and determined to deal with this problem. I can't help but mention the Pribojska spa, the place I come from. First of all, this also concerns the return of property to Eparhija Mileshevska several years ago, more specifically land and rehabilitation centre. In this way, after many years, property-legal relations were resolved, the spa was given its owner and started to adapt and edit the rope center. I'm saying this for one simple reason, which is that the Priboj spa is a developmental opportunity and the development potential of the Priboj municipality, which is still not adequately and fully engaged, but it's important that we move from a dead spot and expect more and more investment in the future. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this problem of restitution should have been resolved long ago. It is true that a great opportunity for two thousand years to resolve this issue has been missed, as promised. At that time, however, someone decided that it was much more important to pass the Privatisation Act, not the Law on the denationalisation of assets, although these two processes were meant to go together and were not allowed to go separately. This is in addition to the devastated economy and everything that has hit us in those years has led to the creation of a suitable ground for the development of corrupt activities that are the most infrequent interests of both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the very Republic of Serbia. I think it is up to us to continue working in the future and, unfortunately, correct others' mistakes and face problems as always, not pushing them under the carpet, but in this way we must look for solutions that will satisfy the interests of the citizens of Serbia, whom we are solely managing. For all that, and therefore, I will gladly support this bill as well as the others in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1623	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1624	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the new Fiscalization Act implies curbing the gray economy. Every fiscal account, whether it's good or service, will be more efficiently implemented via the Internet to the tax administration. The proposed law removes the shortcomings of today's model, more effectively controlling the supply of goods and services to small and accepted advances. At the time of transport, the obligor issued a fiscal account using a fiscal electronic device approved by the tax administration. The burden of a non-existent device itself and the purchase of new state takeovers, which is a savings to our debtors. The start of the law is scheduled for January 1st, 2022. We must stress that since the first fiscalization, it has been 15 years, that the whole system has become obsolete, there have been various shortcomings that will be addressed in this fiscalization. Each fiscal account must be signed by electronic signature and will be found in the security element issued by the tax administration, which will include crypto protection, all in order to curb the grey economy and better tax collection. Discussing the gray economy is the strategic goal of this government. We all know how harmful the consequences of the grey economy are to the quality of life and how much economic operators who work in accordance with the regulations feel a little disappointed with those who work in the gray economy. In the fight against the gray economy, the state cannot win without the active participation of citizens. The consequences of the grey economy are lower budget revenues, causing worse public services, such as education, health care, police, judiciary, municipal services. Tax and VAT pay enables the construction of schools, kindergartens, the health system, the social system, infrastructure and the standard of living of citizens. Only an economically stable state with a good tax system and a responsible government can provide its citizens with a better future. Our government headed by Alexander Vukic takes care of its citizens when it's the hardest. Now that this pandemic is destroying strong health systems of large countries, one small Serbia is making two large homing hospitals in Batajnica and Kruševec within four months, providing the best equipment, the most respirators so far, renovating hospitals that haven't invested in decades, taking care of every human life, and most importantly, treatment is for all for free, which is not the case with developed countries in Europe. Now that large countries are buying large amounts of vaccines against Kovida-19 and simply racing who will buy more, not thinking about smaller countries and their residents, President Aleksandar Vukic provides vaccines that will be completely free of charge for our citizens and how they cost and paid out of the budget. In this economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, highways are made, clinical centres are reconstructed, new jobs are created, 7,900 apartments are built for security forces, and the state has provided 290m euros, of course, from the budget. As for pensioners, the state has provided assistance of 5,000 dinars, which it will receive by the end of the week, and has pledged to increase pensions at the beginning of 2021. Both pensioners, as well as employees, raise their salaries in health, military and public sectors, of course from the budget. An irresponsible policy can lead the country to bankruptcy, destroy the health system, the pension fund, destroy the military and the police, the education system, destroy every look at the normal future, and provide itself with 619m euros and for their brother 34 apartments, and who knows how many of their godfathers, friends. Serbian citizens saw the difference, punished the elections of such state leadership and gave their voice to the president and the government who is working hard and creating a better future and taking care of them. The state has helped the private sector by giving a minimumer for all and now helps employees in catering, hotelers, tourist agencies, rent and kar agencies. Somewhere around 72,500, they'll get a minimum wage from the government's budget. I cannot, without commenting on the rhetoric of the great traitors, the rhetoric used daily on the N1 and NS, the various kinds of insults addressed to President Aleksandr Vukic and the most terrifying threats addressed to his children, and this is allowed and not condemned, threatened by our fellow Members, journalists, and it is not being silenced, and it is considered normal. If we comment on anyone's statement, it's press pressure, freedom of speech is threatened. Now I ask – who and when he defended or apologized to Nenad Jezdić, who was attacked and named the most ugly names just because he spoke passages from the "Milos Obrenović" monodrama at the opening of Milos the Great highway? As a great man, such as a great actor, he merely stated: “I look forward to people’s success and gain through that highway. It's the way of all of us. We, as a people, have made a great Dane-goat in order to deal with gossip." Has anyone apologized to the great actors Miki Manojlovic, Lazi Ristovski, Bulletin Goncic for brutal insults to them? Are they artists or artists of the second order, as they call us second-class citizens? Has anyone apologized to Željko Joksimovic for the ugliest insults just because he said that he has been waiting for the highway to Valjev his whole life or is he also an artist of the second order? Like my parliamentary group, I will vote for all the draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1625	Thank you. The word is from the MPs of the people Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1626	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Minister Mali with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the only thing that hypocrites want authorities can resent is that Serbia is in debt, not mentioning that after the strong graces of the period and the prolonging of returns we are returning expensive loans that were 7.25%, the size of the bonds in 2011. Today, it's refinanced by 1%. All of this is actually due to the credibility of the country that is being built by those who are leading it. In fact, the background is that critics and politicians see that everything works despite this monster that hit the world. It's not easy when you look at yourself in the mirror and when you see losers and you really need to feel sorry for them, because they had a chance to show themselves, and they didn't, and the people punished them in the elections. I like people's minds, because they've come with experience and there's no need to doubt them. So one of the worst curses is just—I hope he did, so he didn't. Gilas had a bottomless bag where he took as much as he wanted and when he wanted to, but now he's gone and our citizens can compare it to their own skin as they do now, and how they used to live. Unlike once, Serbia now has a future. We have a lot of financial laws ahead of us, because the financial arrangement is essential for the fulfilment of all obligations and for the acquisition of everything needed by the state and its citizens. As in every house, nothing else, this government does domestically and the results are seen. So far, the fiscal registers law has been in force since 2005 and since 15 years have passed and technology has made significant progress and has changed. The fight against the grey economy is one of the government's strategic objectives to combat the grey economy and to fill the budget. This law creates conditions for more effective control. We have broad support for the citizens. It is also the award-winning game initiated by the government and NAED to raise awareness among citizens that every unbeated account is in fact a reduced budget of the Republic of Serbia, and a grain per grain is a cake. Amendments and additions to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens proposed to prevent the illegal work of natural persons and to relieve economic operators, as well as to increase the untaxed part of the amount of earnings from 16.300 per month to 18.300 per month. The goal is to reduce the number of employees in the gray zone. The working century goes by quickly. You need to think about what's gonna happen to these people when they get old. Working on black doesn't make anybody a pension, just extra profits to company owners. That's what the state wants to stop. This law also provides for the transfer of digital assets, which is otherwise specified in a special law which is also on the agenda today and what has been said here, and also provides for the exemption of the tax on taxpayers who invest in company capital from the sale of digital assets. With huge money spinning in this area, this is one way to increase investment. What attracts more investment? It certainly attracts the president of Serbia with his reputation in the world and the trust he has gained, as the given word will not be trampled, as well as a stable course of dinars. When we're macro-economically stable, then they're at our disposal and lower interest rates and just the financiers are racing who's going to get a better placement. Only a few years ago, they laughed at our president when he mentioned the fourth industrial revolution. Now we see it's a reality. We have smart young people, lots of IT experts and more investment. This is one way to win them over. Our geostrategic position is very interesting because we are at the border of the East and the West, on the Balkan Peninsula and the main land transversal with the Middle East. Serbia is developing a private sector and for the first time in our country, earning employees in the private sector outweighs profits from the state budget. Our workers are among the best workers in the West. They, of course, want to make money and it's totally natural. A lot of time has been wasted. We were left with bad helms, and they didn't care about us sailing in peaceful waters, working on the image of the country, working on our brands, but it was important to them to get as fast and as rich as possible, and then with that wealth to pay and bribe. It's not just Gilas, there's a lot of those that nobody mentions and who, as experts, stole money and now enjoy some institutions, boards, boards of directors, banks. We're on a good track, but there's still a lot of work to be done, especially in strengthening independent institutions, especially the judiciary, because what do we look like if the police arrest and the judiciary lets criminals go? It takes political will, but also courage, because it often deals with very dangerous people. I will finish my presentation by quoting Ivo Andric: “Only by work or courage can one gain a reputation among people. Do not make them love you and reward you, but certainly appreciate you and respect you. Of course, work is a better and safer means, because courage is not of nature every day, and in addition, it provides a rarer opportunity. I'm talking here about the inner pleasure that a man has of well done work, which certainly is worth more than all the rewards and recognitions of human beings. “ I would add apropo to this – it is our pleasure to be on the path of success and to see our eyes as Serbia progresses, as Serbia strengthens and it is an immeasurable pleasure that no money can buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1627	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1628	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the draft law amending the Law on the definition of public interest and the special procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The proposed amendments will allow for the realisation of this project, which is why, of course, I will vote in favour of this law. As for the project itself, it is currently one of the largest construction projects in Europe, worth 3.5 billion euros. The project is very important because it allows for new jobs, the engagement of the Serbian construction industry, the growth of the economy, strengthening the economy and increasing the tourism potential of Belgrade and Serbia. Also, a huge job has already been done by clearing the area and that people living there in inhumane conditions have been given adequate accommodation. A space that has been a mockery of Belgrade for years today looks magnificent, and it will only look magnificent when the whole project is completed. "Belgrade on Water" grows more and more every day, and as you know in the course of it is building a tower "Belgrade" which will be another symbol of our capital. On the other hand, I must point out that the worst mayor in Belgrade's history, Dragan Gilas, was intruding and disturbing the "Belgrade on Water" project, but he did not mind Miskovic's project "The City on Water", which he promoted in Cannes on 12 March 2009. As for the project "Belgrade on Water", I would like to remind the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia that thanks to the responsible policy and vision of Alexander Vukic, in the previous period in Belgrade, we built 20,000 square meters of the most beautiful walking zones in downtown Belgrade, paved 1,220 streets, built and reconstructed 436km of water and sewerage networks, built a pasarella that connects Calemegdan with the Sava promenade, restored hundreds of façades, reconstructed the square of Slavi, the square of the Republic, the National Museum which, I remind you, was closed for 15 years, the Museum of Contemporary Art which has been closed for 10 years. We also reconstructed Flower Square, Kosančić's wreath and Toplice's wreath. I must also point out that this is only a small part of what we did in Belgrade in the previous period and that we will continue at the same pace in the next period. Also under way is the construction of a new bus stop in Block 42 in New Belgrade, and at the end of next year we are starting to build a subway. I'll remind you that Dragan Gilas from 2008 until 2013 promised to start building a metro that he never even started to build. Unlike him, we keep our promises, and next year we start to realize this project. Speaking of Belgrade's worst mayor, Dragan Gilas, I would like to remind the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia only of some of his projects. For example, the Big Brother's House project, where it has kidnapped 2,000-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-of-the-ground programme in Serbia that is designed to be an object for child accommodation, cultural entertainment and sports-recreative purposes. Also, the project - underground containers where it acquired 1,800 underground containers from the company Blagojevica, which was involved in making cables in an open tender without any study or plan. The containers, as you know, soon failed because they were not waterproof or rust-resistant, while the company that got this job soon afterwards went bankrupt. Although the company that made the containers committed itself to setting it up, it did not happen, the city of Belgrade has already hired the municipal company "City Cleanness" and "Belgrade Way" to finish the job. As for buying Spanish trams, the exact same Kaf Tramways in Hungary cost 1.8m euros, while Belgrade bought them for 2.2m euros per piece. Thus, the city of Belgrade paid the same tram 12m euros more than a real price without the contracted service and spare parts, making it necessary for a brand-new tram to part and use it for spare parts. Also, on the purchase of these trams, they had to cut the public transport position extraordinaryly so that these trams could be used in the first place. As for the replica "Terroria" in New Belgrade, this map tower cost us 114 million dinars and additionally paid four million dinars a year for security, where there was no living soul. The replica is never officially opened, nor completed, and besides this installation facility is illegally connected to an electrical network. I will also remind you of the town of Pazl na Voždovac, which was raised without local and construction permits on the land of the Ministry of Defence, and has lost its function very quickly, because all devices are designed to play children in part or completely destroyed, while the walls are parched. As for the bridge on Ada, the construction of the bridge cost over 400m euros, although the original projected price was 118m euros. In only the first phase of construction of Gilas's associates, about eightm euros were paid in the name of fictitious consulting services. The money was withdrawn through a Greek company whose legal representative was Serbian citizen Rajacic, a close friend of Gilas's godfather, Dragan Jesic. Also, in late 2011, the city of Belgrade paid an additional nine million euros for the Adi bridge to be completed before the deadline and officially opened for its welcome in 2012 to be used by Dragan Gilas for the new year's promotion, i.e. for the purpose of the pre-election campaign in 2012. Without further ado, I could talk by tomorrow about the successful projects of Dragan Gilas, whose citizens Belgrade turned into black, but I will take advantage of the opportunity to call him to stop hiding behind his media, to return to the city's parliament that he escapes the devil from the cross and explains to the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia that it is possible that since 2007, when he became a minister and when he reported that he only had a wife's house, a car from 2003 and 74 000 euros in savings, it comes to the fact that in 2016 only in real estate there are 25m euros, while his brother Gojko Gilas has 35 properties worth over five million euros, although I am sure that the citizens, both Belgrade and Serbia, are absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1629	Thank you. National MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1630	Dear President, honourable vice-presidents, distinguished fellow MPs, respected Mr. Minister, economic measures and various incentives from the Government of the Republic of Serbia are important for all economic operators, especially for the private sector. The government of the Republic of Serbia began paying minimum earnings in the branches of the economy most hit by this pandemic – tourism, catering and hoteling. About two billion dinars have been allocated for about 72,500 employees in these sectors. The most important thing is to preserve jobs and preserve liquidity. Evidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cares about the private sector is also before us, before the MPs, in the light of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. It is now referring to the incentive of the private sector in the form of reliefs and reimbursements of funds allocated to compulsory social security and contributions. I remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that all employees in small and medium-sized enterprises were paid three minimum earnings and two minimum earnings per cent of minimum earnings this year. The implementation of the "My First Salary" programme, launched by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is under way to encourage the employment and training of young people whose first job will be after completed schools. This programme will make it easier for many employers to get the necessary personnel, and an opportunity to gain work experience and to have about 10,000 young people later and to employ, and about two billion dinars have been allocated for this. If such a programme is subject to changes and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, we have traveled a great way to help the private sector. The reason for the adoption of such a law is for new employment, economic growth, more favourable privatisation and reduction of the costs of economic operators. Essentially, both these laws and amendments extend the period of existing reliefs by the end of 2021 when an increase in the number of employers who will benefit from these benefits related to the return of paid contributions and paid social security is expected from 65% to 75% for employers in the private sector who employ a new worker. The law is expected to finance about six billion dinars based on the return of funds. The employer has the right to recover 65% in the event that he employs one worker at least and no more than nine workers, of 70% when he employs at least 10 workers, and no more than 99 and 75% when he creates a working relationship with more than 100 workers. All those who have or have so far touched points with the private sector know how important it is for employers such a measure that it will be easier to come to a decision to engage a new workforce in order to advance and achieve their growth. This measure also applies to those who are still working, new employers, that is, newly created companies. Mr. Minister, I think and I think that in some future time, and due to today's new situation, these reliefs can be more liberal, as regards certain conditions, which aim to prevent abuse. This applies in the part of whether the employer has had a reduction in the number of workers during a certain period of time provided for by this law, and until the day he applies for relief. I would suggest that this period be reduced to 12 months, i.e. to be watched from the day of application a year ago. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministry are leading a good fiscal policy. I want to commend all the economic measures so far and help our economy. I would refer to the Fiscal Council, which has always criticised the government of the Republic of Serbia's measures in terms of helping our citizens and our economy, and I would like to know whether they were so critical at the time of Boris Tadic, when Serbia was facing bankruptcy. Today, we have the smallest drop in GDP in Europe, according to the IMF and the European Commission projections and when we expect growth. We can only thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for its valuable work, for saving and implementing difficult reforms. That is why today we have the opportunity to help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will continue to help, both our economy and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1631	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1632	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we see by analysing the proposed laws that the Serbian government is continuing towards the development, expansion and growth of the economy and the standard of living of citizens. That's why I'm going to say right away at the beginning of the presentation that I'm going to support all the bill proposals. I place the accent on amendments to the Capital Market Act because it is the most important in terms of our country's status, rating and a favourable environment for foreign investors. Last year, after a long time, Serbia returned to the international capital market. This year, Serbia went to the international financial market and issued a bond of $1 billion and $200m to refinance the most expensive bond, which was issued in 2011 and replaced the debt with a much cheaper one. This is the smallest interest rate our country has ever received in the capital market, resulting in additional savings of around 11 billion and 600 million dinars. And more importantly, public debt participation remains below 60% of GDP. Why can we say that all standards of the developed capital market are met? It was precisely because the lost trust of foreign and domestic investors was a key problem in the Serbian market. Today we don't raise public debt, we pay back the loans, and we pay back the bonds that someone else took before us. Today companies get more favourable loans at much lower interest rates. The money we invest is concrete projects, projects that lead to increased competitiveness, growth in the economy and economy, contribute to financial stability. Today, we are proud of the fact that we are getting confirmations of the proper economic policy from the world financial institutions. Foreign direct investment in Serbia has not been reduced during the crisis caused by the coronary pandemic. This speaks of the trust that foreign investors have in Serbia and the economic policy we run. Finally with September, they invested in our country a billion and 800m euros, and the projection is that by the end of the year it will be planned two billion and 300m euros. So, the stability of the dinars no longer worries anyone. And just a few years ago, we lived in a country that was at the financial bottom in every sense of these words. So far, the Serbian government, led by President Vukic, has indeed shown great seriousness and responsibility. Every promise has been fulfilled, from salary and pension growth to a reduction in unemployment to below 8% and a rise in living standards. Let me remind you that in 2013, unemployment was more than 25%. The country's assistance to the economy and citizens since the start of the pandemic crisis will amount to as much as 700 billion dinars, or six billion euros. At an extraordinary session yesterday, the National Bank of Serbia adopted decisions allowing for easier repayment of loans to debtors affected by the coronary pandemic of the virus. All this shows that the government is taking care of citizens and businesses, taking care of Serbia, because we are all part of Serbia. Despite all the efforts and results of this government, however, we have those who do not mind that we will not allow this people to forget the misdeeds and the robberies, the tycoon's unhappiness. We have opposition remains of these very criminals who have gathered around them gullible and greedy, who are trying to portray themselves as a victim. Yeah, they're the ones who got hit with the truth. They try to portray us as aggressors, like those who attack. Well, gentlemen, you could have raised Serbia, you could have built it, not stolen it. You could open factories, new jobs, raise salaries and pensions, strengthen the military, the police, health care, the economy. But you didn't. You had a chance but you missed it. No one trusts you anymore, so neither do you trust one another. So stop attacking the only person who has done so much for Serbia over the past 30-40 years, President Alexander Vukic. It's normal for there to be those who don't forgive success. It's always been like that. But one is an insult, and the other is an invitation to the lynch. It's enough to remember the '90s and how we lived, so the crime of the 2000s, until there was a change in 2012. In the last few years, we've really felt that life is changing for the better. You tried to go out into the streets, make a mess. You've worked hard to break, burn and destroy, but you've lost again. It's really too much to expect from us to keep our mouths shut, because we won't be silent about insults or threats. It is enough to call anyone who opposes you who are against Serbia and in a sophisticated way pretend to be dissatisfaction. On the contrary, you work only for your own pocket, with the aim of destroying all that has been created with torment. And it is not true that hate speech is spreading in parliament. Is it hate to tell the truth and seek justice? Is that violence? Is anyone from the opposition media being punished for calling a hanging link, for slaughter, for rape? We're just fighting for this people to hear the truth, to remember well. That's why it bothers me that we're repeating proven facts and I don't care what the Gilas and the School media say. Again, it is normal that there are those who do not forgive success, and we are moving on and we will fight for a better Serbia in which we will not fear the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1633	Thank you. The word has a folk MP named Milica Dacic, but we're not related.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1634	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, and above all, respected citizens of Serbia, by draft law on digital property, we are editing an area that has not been subject to legal regulation so far and which digital property becomes a legal category. This puts us in line for not such a large number of countries that understand the importance of legal certainty in this area, and we are the first in the region to join and calm down and adopt such an act in the National Assembly. Much has been done to improve the business environment and create a favourable business environment in the past eight years. For this reason, we have investors today who do not give up investment in Serbia despite the pandemic. The situation with the coronary virus has only accelerated the process of digitising society and business, and digital property is taking an important place in the process. We, by this law which should be the cornerstone of investment security and trust, are improving our business environment, improving the capital market, promoting the development of the business branch. We are also creating an opportunity to facilitate the financing of innovative start-up companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. What is also very important from the point of view of the legal system is that this is the first step towards harmonising effectively with the legal situation. Investment tokens or krypto-currency have been represented for many years by financial instruments that are suitable for investment. For this reason, the special institute, by the proposal of this law, which has been introduced into the law, is the Institute of White Paper which performs its function through the process of issuing assets and has the characteristics of accuracy, comprehensiveness and truthfulness of the data on which it will be located. It is precisely these characteristics that can indicate that in the future this institute will actually represent one formal correction. This is how we temporarily connect new technologies and financial services. Especially when we talk about the information technology sector, technological development has created, especially in previous years, a certain infrastructure that can primarily help young companies so-called. start-ups in their first initial steps. In doing so, I think of those projects that have been completed this year despite the pandemic, such as the opening of a Scientific Technology Park in Nis, such as the opening of a Scientific Technology Park in Novi Sad. What I would especially like to point out and thank you for, which is a respected minister, a decision from December of last year, so in 2019 about buying a building for the needs of the Scientific Technology Park in Chačka, which, therefore, has given them one of the places that one such investment deserves. We opened that space in June of the month, in the presence of Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic, and I must say that I felt proud of the fact that for the first time in my city's history, both the president of my country and the prime minister of my country appeared at the same time. It is particularly important that we saw in the previous session that the 2021 budget has defined funding for these institutions. The development of these institutions is extremely important for the economy, for science, for technological development, but also in my view for a very important and important topic, and this is the retention of young and highly educated people in our country who are exactly like this and made possible. It's a topic that's been current and some previous weeks since we have that side that encourages it. I believe that much has been done for young people in Serbia responsible and state policy by Alexander Vukic, which is seen by the percentage of the younger population's representation in parliament. The circle of such large investments ends in this year, on 18 December with the opening of the Data Centre in Kragujevac and an indicator of how important the institution is also the arrival of the American technology company in Kragujevac "ABM", which will become, therefore, the first commercial user of this centre. I agree that sometimes it is impossible to explain about people who have problems in the 21st century both with sewers and with water supply, the need to invest in a society based on knowledge, innovation and technological development, but I also think that we should start with these investments in time so that one day we don't get into a situation where our children mention us that we didn't start these things on time. On the other hand, the "Serbia 2020-2025" investment plan is also designed to address these problems. I would refer to amendments and additions to the Public Property Act. The first amendment in this law concerns the limitation of the market value of immovable property to two years, because it is otherwise observed that the market values of immovable property have been rapidly changing in recent years. It has been observed, therefore, that prices of squares especially in large cities are growing. It is another indicator of Serbia's economic progress. The second amendment concerns the extension of the deadline so that the autonomous provinces of local self-government and public enterprises can extend the deadline for the admission of public property rights to immovable property by 2021. I don't have information for the whole country, but if the indicator is an example of my local self-government, so the city of Chačka, this job is done at about 90%, and very soon, I'm sure it will be completed in all local self-government, given that it suffers as a result of the pandemic. Finally, I am also glad that through these two topics I have been given the opportunity to point to Alexander Vukic's creative and responsible policy once again. Namely, the location where it is located is now located The Cačak Science Technology Park is the location of the former factory "CER", the famous Chacan firm that was privatized in 2009. So, as far as the situation in the country has changed, it is evident that ten years later the state has found funds and a legitimate interest to return some of this location to the state, or public property that I am talking about right now and to revive this old industrial zone, just as it seems in all parts of Serbia. For all these reasons, I urge everyone to vote for this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1635	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1636	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers with co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have today a set of financial laws and I will say that their common denominator is that all laws concern the better lives of citizens and better business conditions of our economy. Also, all the proposed laws also have a strategic definition of SNS policy, which is the fight against the gray economy, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption, but, of course, a very important package of support to economic operators in order to achieve new employment and to keep economic operators in the pandemic that has affected the whole world, and also our country, on healthy feet and can continue to receive incentives to continue to employ new workers, and in this sense to strengthen our country economically. Serbia is today an economically stable country. Serbia is a safe and secure country today. Serbia today is the first country in Europe to make economic progress, i.e. by economic indicators, because it has the smallest decline in Europe at the time of the pandemic when many countries have seen very large declines in economic growth, our country is down by one percent. Also, economic growth is projected to be 6% next year, which will also be one of the best in Europe. What I want to draw attention to, is that of all the financial laws, two laws, and that's the Fiscalization Act and the Digital Property Act are two brand-new laws, system-wide new laws. The first law, its primary goal is to support the economy, support the tax administration, but also to fight the gray economy. Another law relating to digital property is also our pioneering venture, and we are one of the first countries in Europe to pass this law, because more unknown providers of digital services will not be this law. Everything is being introduced into legal flows, but of course, this law is also important in terms of strengthening the IT sector, because information and communication technology and young people dealing with the provision of these services and how their work contributes to the growth of the overall GDP of our economy. What I want to draw attention to all of us, these are amendments and additions to the laws relating to the determination of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and the issue of construction permits for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The essence of this law is to extend the deadline for submission of applications for expropriation to five, seven years and the deadline will expire on 15 April 2022. Why do I look at the changes and supplement this law? Because the "Belgrade on Water" project is not only important for the city of Belgrade, the project "Belgrade on Water" is a project of great importance for all citizens, for the Republic of Serbia and of great importance for our overall economy. Many statesmen had their dreams to bring Belgrade and Belgrade to the river, yet Milos had a great intention to bring Belgrade down to the river by settling merchants and craftsmen on the banks of the Sava River. No one to Alexander Vukic went after the hand to bring Belgrade and Belgrade down to the most beautiful part of Belgrade, which is the Sava River. Dragan Gilas left behind in the area where "Belgrade on Water" is now being built, a simple garbage store, wrecks of ships, rails, snakes, rats, wagons. Today, thanks to government policy, Alexander Vukic's policy is one of the most beautiful parts of Belgrade, and that part of Belgrade is the most beautiful part of Southeast Europe. In that part of Belgrade, a market centre of 300,000 square metres was built, but what is significant will employ 5,000 workers. These are our employees who will be registered, whose taxes and contributions will, of course, be paid here and who will make funds for the existence of themselves and their families. In the Galeria Market Centre, which is the largest and only one on the riverbank, it is located on the banks of the Sava River, the largest in this part of Europe, will also be a cinema hall that will have 1,700 seats, with 3,600 parking spaces. Also, I would like to stress that next year the Tower of Belgrade will be completed, which will be a symbol of New Belgrade, the European and world metropolis, will be 167m high, will have 42 floors and will shine with a modern, beautiful look and will give Belgrade the spirit of a new time. Of course, no city can be preserved in a jar and nothing can be done. Those who do nothing are those who follow the policies of Dragan Gilas. He did nothing for Serbian citizens, he did everything only in his own interest and in the interest of personal wealth. That time has passed. Citizens of this policy no longer believe, because they have no idea, they just have hatred for everything that is advanced and for every success. Alexander Vukic believed in his dreams, believed in his work, and you, Mr. Minister, were one of those who were then enthusiastic and believed in those dreams. People who believe in their dreams and work, they win. SNS, Aleksandra Vukic and these governments are policies for Serbia to be a winner in every way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1637	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a set of tax laws we are discussing today, Serbia is certainly stepping into modernisation in all areas. I don't want to list now the Digital Property Act and other fiscalization laws, other laws, I'd like to say something about the Capital Market Act. For 14 or 15 years, the Republic of Serbia has owned a capital market, i.e. a securities market. The lack of this market was that we only sold property securities on that capital market, securities of value. The former regime has invented that companies that are bullish in the privatisation process, where a certain percentage of employees in the company would get a certain amount of shares, a majority owner through the capital market, or securities of value, would become the absolute owner of a single company. During the former regime, this was the sole purpose of the existence of a securities market, it had no other purpose. Even in those worst times of the 2008 World Economic Crisis, which I say again and always repeat that the little baby in relation to the economic crisis caused by the Kovid pandemic, our securities market has not been modernised. We found the Committee on Papers of Values, which is a single regulatory body in one complete chaos, in one lack of legal regulation, lack of good practices, and it was very difficult to restart, firstly, the work of the Securities Commission and then improve the work of the Commission. I can say that there were very strong resistances to today's draft law on the agenda. The essence of this amendment and the addition of the Law is that it is not only property charters from the value of the paper market, but also debtors, for the first time in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a small legal person, a micro or someone else to participate in the capital market of value and to obtain funds, whether for investments, whether to improve their activities that can be significantly cheaper depending on its creditworthiness, of course, but rather on the assets that you can get from business banks. There's a reason why the former regime was trying to stop this process of modernising our securities market, because it was they who worked exclusively in the interests of business banks and large financial systems. Just remember how we defended the dinar from 2008 to 2012. We sold foreign reserves, sold at least 5.5 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves. Did we defend the dinar course? We didn't. He lost half his value, from 78 dinars to 119,80 to 120, that's more than half. Because financial institutions in the bank's further text made one perpetum mobile, one of its own, primary money emissions, and with a surplus of money earned through racquetary interest, they bought euro and amounted to outside Serbia, thus causing a drop in national currencies, a drop in living standards, a decline in business operations in Serbia. The former regime knew all this, but he didn't do anything about it. That's why we couldn't have one such market of securities of value, because this whole business that banks and certain financial speculators are, above all, thinking about some large companies, Delta or something, they wouldn't be able to chew up enormous amounts of extra profit by destroying not only economic operators, but every citizen, every single individual, every household in Serbia. The former regime has done damages at national level and it is certainly good that finally if someone has extra capital to participate in stock exchanges, because also business banks today with interest rates that are equal to zeroes, they see funds and deposits by sight so that this is one promotion that can in any case lead to our business entities coming to cheaper money, to increase competition between participants in the financial market, and when money as a commodity is cheap and your economy is far more operational and far, far more competitive. As far as the law relating to television subscription is concerned, one of the objections of the Fiscal Council was that there was no funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2021 for the functioning of public service in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We don't need a public service that's not what it's supposed to be, which is that it has a certain independence and independence in its work, that there's no pressure on anyone's editorial policy of public service, and we've had a situation that if any journalist, any editor tries to transfer something objective not only through public service, even through private television broadcasters, it's immediately lynched and satanized by Dragan Gilas and the former regime. You know, the former regime had a very good tactics. They didn't have a television subscription. The money was received by the public service from the Republika Srpska budget. If they're not good, they don't listen to Dragan Gilas, they won't even get the money. That's the primary consequence. The secondary consequence is that, therefore, our public service did not operate on market conditions. If he listens to Dragan Gilas, he'll get the money, and the seconds and time he's scheduled for the EPP, he'll be able to give the same one to Dragan Gilas, who'll sell it later. Here is how in a rather perfiduous way, Dragan Gilas indirectly robbed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it will all be covered by the decisions of the board of directors, the competent bodies for the management of public service, to avoid criminal responsibility, but the fact is that due to the donations made by the Republic of Serbia, RTS and RTTV gave their seconds to Gilas, who later sold it to users. So, one kind of robbery and abuse of position. To make things even more interesting, we as a society, of course, are making progress, as much as these are trying to challenge, and even now they're asking the question when fiscalization is at stake, are we going to have the Internet, are we going to have electricity? You know, whatever you try to do is new, and if it's supposed to be good, you're going to come across a certain resistance that's often not based on some values that are right, and it happens with an evil intention. That's how we have this fiscalization story. I think that's good. I think it's good that as much as possible to edit and facilitate our taxpayers that as easy and cheaper as possible, they carry out their obligations to the state, but do you know what happens as a consequence? Here, there was this story about the friller today. Gilas' media has also represented them as large exporters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and should therefore be exempt from taxes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Okay, what about those who pay taxes? You know, when someone's doing some kind of work, when he makes money, he pays taxes in every country. Someone says -- well, they make a few hundred euros for their family members. Yeah, and that farmer who gets his back shot at 12, 14 hours in the sun, also pays taxes and also makes money for his family, so I don't see why not everyone who makes any income would pay those taxes. Once again, the Gilas media are running this story about how, well, they've managed, the state hasn't allowed them anything, not to list it any further, but I have to ask, is that really the money from the export? Is this really the resulting export income? I'm telling you it's not. I claim the money is from here, from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is money paid by domestic advertising firms through social and social networks. Not some of them from America, England or anywhere else. What would someone who wasn't on the market pay for a commercial on the Serbian market? No one would. Of these commercials, Google, YouTube, etc., which are from here, from our business entities, paid back some of the money to the frillers, so here we can talk about imports rather than exports. You know, it always sounds politically good when you say someone's exporting something. When we opened that story and we found that everyone should pay taxes, who performs some work, Mr. Minister, to dozens of my friends who live and work in the diaspora, they asked me if it was true that the Republic of Serbia would introduce taxes on their salaries and profits made abroad. I asked them a question. Where did you get it? They sent me links again from Gilas' media, where they quoted the provisions of the law, not all of them, but only those that fit them, that citizens should pay taxes that live and work abroad. Be careful, they went so far and so rude that even where there is a double taxation avoidance agreement, if the tax rate is lower in the country, they should pay the difference in Serbia. You know, that's what they wrote. If someone else put that out of the way, let's say ignorance, say mistake, but that's what Dragan Gilas and Solak wrote. Gilas and Solak write it on their media, those who are masters of how to cheat the tax system, to operate here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to make revenues of over 400m euros, and to pay taxes to Luxembourg and to know that no one can, or even they, be double taxed. I think it's one of the pinnacles. I think in some future period, regardless of whether someone is registered outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if they perform their duties on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they would pay taxes or differences if they were registered in another country, because you can't make money here and you pay taxes to others. That's not working. It doesn't exist anywhere. Finally, if we bring these two thugs, at least the tax work, into law, we can even them along with all the other eight million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to pay taxes. I hope that finally our Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the More Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade will respond to the criminal report by the City of Belgrade for all those abuses, malfeasances, money laundering carried out by Dragan Gilas while he was mayor of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1639	Thank you. The word is Goran Kovacevic. Is he here? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1640	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected Minister Mr. Mali, has been following the World Health Organization's recommendations from the first day of January 30th of this year to declare the pandemic a public health threat of international importance, and on March 11th, it declared the crown pandemic itself a virus. After just four days, the government of the Republic of Serbia imposed an emergency in the Republic of Serbia and took all necessary measures to protect itself as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but to mitigate as much negative impact as possible on our economy. We did equipment procurement, medical equipment for our hospitals, we bought respirators, we built hospitals in Karaburma, Zemun Polje, these days the hospital in Kruševec will be open, we raised salaries to healthcare workers, and in the budget for next year the salaries will also be increased to healthcare workers. We received assistance from the European Union, from America, from Russia, from China, but in those moments as a state, we acted very responsibly and shared assistance with other countries like Italy. At a daily level of 700,000 euros, the Republic of Serbia singles out for testing, and within yesterday's data, it is clear that 271,000 and more than 271,000 people in Serbia are registered to a coronary virus that we have tested over two million people in Serbia over nine months, and unfortunately 2,380 citizens of the Republic of Serbia have lost their lives. What is good, and what we heard from the president today is the fact that by the New Year's Eve, two, possibly three, bidders will have the opportunity to sell vaccines in Serbia and that Serbia will provide enough quantities and that we are dealing with this severe disease in this way. There are those who criticise the work of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, our prime minister, the entire government, are different lies and thus want to reduce the struggle of the Republic of Serbia, our officials against this dangerous disease, but of course, Serbian citizens see the results and best assess all that has been done. As far as the agreement is concerned, it is very important to the Republic of Serbia. It provides a legal framework where, on a voluntary basis, the EU country, but also other Member States of Europe, can unite and in this unique way access the fight in the purchase of the equipment itself, the vaccine itself and all that is necessary. It is also very important to note that through this agreement we have international expertise, that we can talk and co-operate with other health institutions, with the world public and this way solve the problem of the pandemic itself. What is also very important should be noted, through this agreement we have no restrictions on the purchase of vaccines or equipment on another market and there is Serbia fully free to choose its own way to fight this monster. In voting day, of course, we will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1641	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1642	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I have to say that it is very difficult to speak behind fellow Arsic when these topics are on the agenda. He's a really good acquaintance and he said a lot in his short speech. Thank him for that, but I'd like to remind him of something when it comes to our cable transmitters. Today we had a Telecommunications Committee and it was on the agenda of the RATEL report, the 2019 Report, still the lion's share of the cake on the market holds the SBB, according to the report, which is an accurate, official report, which is 47% of the markets held by those of millions and 800 subscribers. The second place is Telekom Srbija with 26%, and not to talk about foreign broadcasters, they're somewhere from eight to less. What about the laws that are on today's agenda, about this set of laws? It should be noted that the entire December month we have these laws, meaning, financial laws, budget laws, laws that speak of our future, which speak of our present and all these proposed laws, of two new laws, which are the Digital Property Act and the Fiscalization Act, are designed to help the lives of ordinary citizens and help the work of our businesses in these times. I am pleased that this small ship, which is called Serbia, successfully runs a strong helm around this troubled world sea and we overcome all the problems, above all, the economic ones who expect us, especially caused by the pandemic Kovida-19. Has anything changed compared to the previous period? Yeah, it's changed a lot. Unfortunately, and to my satisfaction, even those small remnants of the previous regime cannot give any concrete objection to the proposed laws, both to those on the agenda today and to the Budget Law and to all the accompanying laws that we have discussed these days. I'm gonna take a little bit off the subject, and it's a pleasure to be able to participate in conversations these days where we, I'm talking about our businessmen, talking to local self-governments, insisting on something that I've been having an unimaginably long period of time. I'll remember that in that old office, communist, only First May had a factory kindergarten in Pirote. I see it's an emergency now. So, in my town, in the King, businessmen, both our local, domestic, and businessmen who have come from abroad for the last three, four years, are discussing a joint project to open working kindergartens. What's he saying? It says that children are born, that we have a future, and that these children can be supported, fed, have employed parents, two employed parents. When all these businessmen insist on opening factory kindergartens, what does that say? It says that we have led a successful economic policy, that we are leading a successful national policy and that Serbia has a future. Isn't that the goal of all of us? Yes, it is. I'll be brief, because I think there's little time left, and there's a young colleague who needs to talk, and I've been talking about this year. What can one say if over six billion euros were invested in the previous period in the recovery and protection of our economy? What can anyone say to those 100 euros received by every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia? What can one say about that positive rating - BB+ that was confirmed yesterday for this small, large heart, great work, but small territorial and small population, country? What can anyone say about what's already being prepared for our pensioners, about 5,000 dinars for everyone? What can someone say when we're realising in the second or third quarter of a good business activity, what do you see? So we're successful in all fields. What can anyone say if this government has managed to share in the past nine months six minimum incomes of hospitality, hoteling, where it is most sensitive, where are the biggest losses and where is the least done? In the end, I'll get it over with, what can someone say if the unemployment rate is 9%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1643	Thank you. National MP Nenad Barosch.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1644	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, one of the phenomena that have gone awry in tax culture and tradition and practice is certainly the phenomenon of a gray economy that is exceedingly disrupting the established relationship of trust between the state and citizens, but also intrinsically defiance and legal systems, good business practices and established a general legal principle of equality, which says that before the law all entities are equal. The essence of the grey economy is to carry out a certain economic activity with a view to obtaining adequate benefits in order to avoid paying taxes and other obligations of the state, and, of course, to all of us individuals, i.e. citizens of the country itself, GDP and progress as well as development. The grey economy has experienced its boom in Serbia between 2000 and 2012 when the participation of the grey economy in GDP was 33.2 to 30.01%, which is not unusual considering that it was ruled by the so-called state of Serbia at the time. ‘Bourage economy’. The term stems from the likely relations of two brothers of a certain Gok, a certain Dragan, who were the priority criteria for establishing certain business relations. During that period, we had the most convincing percentage of the grey economy in GDP, and right above us was Bulgaria. Now that percentage in Serbia is only about 15% and we are now ranking with highly developed European countries in this regard, and that result, of course, has been influenced by an unfavourable strong struggle of the state. Only one piece in that puzzle is exactly the same law on fiscalisation, which is the primary goal of curbing the gray economy, raising the level of GDP income, thus our development and progress. The law comes to consider 15 years after the Law on fiscal cash registers, which has been regulated by the fiscal system. This law, as we have heard, today from both you ministers and fellow MPs has shown numerous shortcomings, flaws, large or high costs for all taxpayers and simply said, has been run over by time. So this bill comes at the right time and will improve a lot of things. As we have said, the main objectives are more efficient control of the traffic of goods and services, as well as a given advance for future transport and services, which contributes to reducing the grey economy and better tax collection. Also, the aim is to monitor and control taxpayers more efficiently, thus reducing the need for frequent field controls by tax inspectors, who have often been in co-operation with fiscal cash register repairers and other elements within the fiscal system, which, as we have heard, reduce costs for all taxpayers. Also, the aim is to extend the scope of the taxpayers, where only in specific and extremely justified situations will they be able to avoid solutions under this law and, of course, as we have already pointed out, the goal is to further reduce costs. Now, at the same time, every account issued will be made available to the tax administration for real-time insight. The news is that consumers will also be able to spot whether a particular account is issued in accordance with the law or not. Of course, the law begins to apply in 1.1.2022, and it is certain that by then certain issues will be resolved that represent certain misunderstandings among citizens. For example, what would happen if, after issuing the invoice and transferring it to the tax system, certain technical non-intentional errors were detected in the account itself? The question is, then, what will happen in cases of post-authorised rebates or library approvals, in terms of fiscalisation? The question also arises, will these solutions under this law be bonds, say agricultural producers who sell their products on markets, perhaps someone who deals with the service moved, taxi drivers who have only one vehicle, etc.? I have no doubt that these but also other issues that may arise will be successfully resolved, given your knowledge, your sincere motives, exceptional commitment but also the team that surrounds you and who really shows results over and over again, not just in the area of finance, because the results from the finance are being shed, is that right, and on the very results of the state. Thank you for that. Thank you and for being with us so often, for being available not only to representatives of state authorities, representatives of local self-government, but also to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. An honest opinion, without the intention of raising you, that you can truly set an example for many of your colleagues. Once again, thank you very much for this, and such positive examples of acts that bring only benefits to our country, we as MPs cannot support anything but an absolute day of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1645	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1646	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we heard a lot today and I think that, above all, as the bearer of the good news today, the finance minister, what is most important at this point for us, is that this credit rating remains as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, that people in the tourism sector should not worry about the support of the state, as well as pensioners, so that by the end of this week there will be two basic support. The third thing that we can say at this point is that our public debt has remained within the limits of the Mastrict and that there's room for a new budget for 2021 that we don't cross these borders, but what I have to say is that in these difficult times, in this difficult year, you've really got the strength, and that's what my colleagues want to really give you support, that in these difficult times you've managed to make that leap to prepare, well prepare these two brand-new laws. So it's the Digital Property Act and the Fiscalization Act, and you managed to hold two public debates in the Chamber of Commerce about fiscalization, to maintain with everyone in a certain way, including with us MPs through public listening, the Digital Property Act. So, to say what the novelties are, the particulars that we really are voting on right now, which will be applied in a year, which will give very good results to the citizens of Serbia. I'm going to turn a little bit more towards the Digital Property Act now, because I think our citizens who have nothing to do with this topic haven't really understood what it does to us. So, the application of this technology in general is a ‘block chain’ and as young people say, ‘digging that bitcoin’ is actually a kind of exchange, i.e. as it is done in securities markets of value, this is done with certain virtual currencies, and it needs equipment, processors, a very large amount of electricity, and it has been going on in the world since 2009. Our young brains, obviously those most young and related to IT technologies, are very actively taking part in that market, and somewhere you have recognized this need to traffic, meaning virtual currencies, which since 2017 the NBS has gone through its own, and we have voted for certain laws that we have introduced, the possibility to control so-called. "virtual exchange offices" or "crypto exchange offices" are now taking a step further. So, along with the NBS and the Securities Commission, you have prepared such a law that you simply remain to observe how a certain exchange of these virtual currencies is done and is not just a bitcoin, it represents 66% of all other currencies. But the point is the moment when certain owners, who have not been known so far, want to turn it into their real goods, then report to the state, that portal owned by the NBS and the Securities Commission, which they follow, with their name and last name, Petar Petrovic, and with their address simply register in an extremely legal way, pay taxes to this country and can simply use those funds to finance real goods. Whether to open their old app new companies, to deal with IT, whether to buy certain equipment or to buy certain goods, they are now simply doing it in an extremely legal way. They pay taxes to this country, the state benefits because it has tax revenues, and that's why the growth we're talking about, 6% next year, we're essentially preparing for those high growth rates, because we're going to have higher revenues in the budget. Therefore, the young people we are talking about, who work through scientific technology parks, which are usually opened in Belgrade in 2015, and have otherwise been created since 1990, those who honor us that we do not know what we are doing, how uneducated, have had opportunities almost 20 years to open a science technology park in Belgrade, and have not opened it, but had to come to Vucic and Ana Brnabic to really seriously deal with both the technology parks and young people from the IT sector, and that we just now just catch this momentum in this IT industry and that everything that was exports to us is really real exports. When we talk first of all about our companies, about our start-up businesses that young people can export their minds completely in a legal way in an extremely responsible way and that they do not have to travel abroad and live there, but from here from Serbia to work, to be satisfied with their incomes, that is, the traffic that these start-ups will make, and therefore have one responsibility first of all towards themselves, to their family, and not to live in the diaspora. Therefore, in this law, you have made a major step in this digital agenda, first of all, that you have recognised together with the NBS and the Securities Commission that it is one of the ways that you can run the capital market in an entirely modern, new way. Thus, in fact, you showed that you should not pay attention to those who by 2012 did not simply know to run the state in one responsible way. That is why the digital agenda, which simply leads this Serbian government, but also the finance ministry recognises the need to improve the investment environment. What does that mean? This law means the possibility of investing in entrepreneurship, in the possibility that you simply don't have to raise certain loans, but that in this way you can finance companies that want to do certain business. So, it's not exclusively the IT sector, but it's one of the drivers of the economic investment environment in Serbia that's supposed to give high growth rates, that all of what we managed to keep in this year, by good economic measures, and not to increase the rapid public debt, we'll simply be able to achieve according to plan and budget for 2021, which we adopted last week. So, we've had one progressive approach with this bill, we have one real security for all market participants when we're talking about digital property at all, we respect international standards, but it's very important to fight crime when it comes to terrorism because we all know that this digital property through these virtual currencies was mainly given through an IP address whose owner never knew and that this dirty money in the world always goes through those transactions. Now we want to know and eliminate anonymity in this business. So there's this white list that's going to be exactly the name and name of the owner of the digital property, it's going to be kept in the register, and it's going to be completely given in a transparent way. The portal that the state provides will also be available to all interested parties. This law is covered by nine chapters with 146 members. This meant that every detail of the establishment of this capital market was very well thought out. In the end, I want to say that I think that young people have a great chance of simply showing now that all those desires in terms of their progress in these areas can materialize through this law, the Digital Property Act. I'm just going to give one piece of information, I think it's very important, you've given the reason for the law, that's that the total capital market for the krypton in 2013 was a billion dollars, in 2018 128 billion, in 2019, 237, and for the first nine months over 300 billion dollars, which means that there's a huge expansion in this area, and because of such a big expansion, it's believed that it's going to be $450 billion this year. It means that one part alone, the shift of Serbia's total turnover, captures and charges through these taxes and drags it into its investment momentum, and see how far Serbia will progress when it comes to economic activity. Therefore, I think that you have really recognized the moment when this law should be passed, the fact that you have made it the most difficult moment for Serbia to deal with major problems and pandemics such as the coronary virus that has caught the whole world. Even Europe has not passed such a law. It brought only what refers to a virtual, or cryptacurrency. She didn't bring digital property as a defined law. Serbia is going out with that law as a country in Southeast Europe and I think we should give the results first. That's why in voting day, I'm gonna support a whole set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1647	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? If not, Minister Mali on behalf of the promoter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1648	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, I want to thank you for another very constructive session, for the good questions, for the good suggestions, for the quality of the exchange of views. My impression, my impression in general of these laws that are before us today are the following – when we talked about budget rebalancing, about next year's budget we talked about things that are kind of common, income, expenditure, growth rate etc. Today we talked about laws that go with the budget, about laws that further modernise our country. Let's take it one step further. So, we're not thinking about tomorrow, we're thinking about 2022, 2023, the digital property law is something that changes the perspective of those who want to start their business here in the long term. They want to start their ideas, they want to make their ideas come true in our country. So it changes their perspective in the long run and the rest of Serbia, and that's our great desire for the young to stay here, to make their ideas and dreams come true here. When it comes to fiscalization, another big step forward. So, after 15 years of one law, some things have changed, technology has changed, solutions have changed, the environment in which the economy has changed. So, we want to move forward with this, and of course, with the e-facture law, to further reduce the impact of the gray economy on our economy, and of course, to boost higher revenues in the budget, but more money for bigger salaries, bigger pensions, new highways, new kindergartens, new hospitals. All other laws, in particular, of the Capital Market Development Act, are very important, the possibility is expanding, i.e. the beauty of various sources of funding, the deadlines are shortened, domestic companies are encouraged not only to seek their funding sources in business banks but also in addition to digital assets, and on the capital market. All these honourable MPs, it encourages growth, and growth is what is most important to us. We have a very ambitious target for 2021, 6% of our GDP growth rate with huge public investments, never higher. So 330 billion dinars, 5.5% of our GDP with huge investment that we have in the growth of living standards and the increase in wages and the increase in pensions. These laws need to further strengthen our efforts to achieve this 6% growth target, in order to continue to maintain this first place, that at the growth rates for 2020, 2021 and 2022, whether they are looking cumulatively or on average, the Republic of Serbia remains number one in Europe. Thank you so much for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-15-0.u1649	Thank you, Mr. Minister. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 14 of the agenda. We will continue tomorrow, as I said, a principle search on the remaining points of the agenda, and the day after tomorrow a search in particular and a day to vote. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 1900 hours]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are therefore conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan M. Markovic and Đuro Peric. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and unique search on the proposals of the law from point. 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Alexander Vulin, Interior Minister Branko Ruzic, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Filip Shanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dr Saša Stojanović, v.d. Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Milan Dobrijevic, V.D. Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance Zoran Lazic, V.d. Interior Ministry Secretary Milena Kovacevic, Deputy Banking Department of the Ministry of Finance and Ognjen Popovic, adviser to the finance minister. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on proposals for legislation from the agenda by point. 15, 16 and 17, and before opening a joint principle and single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and the time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs who are members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the Interrelational Travel of Citizens; Proposal for a Law on the Determination of a Guarantee Scheme as a measure of support for the economy for the mitigation of the pandemic of Kovid - 19 caused by SARS CoV-2 virus and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Contract of the "Contained School in Serbia" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. I assume the representatives of the promoter will take the floor. The word is Alexander Vulin, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
