ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, fellow MPs, this is one of the sessions that we call our session, or session of the Assembly in which we are discussing issues that are within the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament and what may, for the first time today, meet with such a session and this topic should be said that these are institutions, such as the Energy Agency, such as the Securities Commission and such as the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media are institutions which are in the jurisdiction and fully in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament. When we say that their independence exists then there is in the sense of their work to match the Serbian Parliament, it means the legislative body in Serbia, not the executive authority, and that is why we say they are independent in their work. On the other hand, what we are discussing today are financial plans based on which they function and, in fact, as if we are making a budget for these institutions how much substantial money they can spend and how much they earn. The state has entrusted certain jobs in these institutions. They have certain incomes from different types of fees, taxis and based on these revenues they have to create certain expenditures for themselves. If there is a surplus in the income from expenditure, the surplus is paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and if there is a shortage then the deficit can be replaced by the reserves from previous years if there is, if not, then it is replaced by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, if certain payments come from the Republic of Serbia's budget, that means that certain bodies that manage these institutions have not managed adequately, they have not recognised that incomes are much smaller and should indeed react together with the Ministry of Finance. You will see, for example, that new trusted businesses, securities commissions have received new incomes, and we have essentially given them the opportunity to finance themselves independently and in a certain way adequately, to have certain expenditures that can also support the work of the institutions themselves. It is very important to say why trust exists in these institutions. Because if, in a certain way, the state confides in such a kind of business that it works in the interests of all Serbian citizens, then it should correspond to the National Assembly and, of course, its responsibility through the financial plans and the consent of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and the control of the spending of public funds each year, it shows how responsible it has been. We have three institutions at the session today. We are talking about the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, REM and the Securities Commission, and these three institutions have simply shown that with this kind of work they can actually function in conditions that are very difficult when we talk about funding at all institutions at the time of the pandemic in 2020. They simply show that, in co-operation with the finance ministry, their economic stability and financial stability are secured. I must indeed also commend the Secretariat of the Serbian Parliament and the Ministry of Finance, which, in co-operation, provided that, in essence, when you look at the list of beneficiaries of public funds, these three institutions show this financial independence in terms of using public funds that don't even have accounts in the Treasury Authority precisely because they have their incomes and on the basis of these revenues, they have their own expenditures. When we talk about the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia's special position, otherwise these institutions go depending on the law that we adopted here in the Serbian Assembly which are practically the founding acts of these institutions. Thus, the Energy Agency is an institution established by the new Energy Act, which is in line with the third package of the EU Directive through co-operation with the Energy Community in December 2015 and has started to apply since 1 January 2016. It is otherwise one of the agencies that, based on the Energy Community Agreement signed in 2005 as a regulatory body that deals with really important issues for the general energy policy of the Republic of Serbia, means, with prices when we talk about both electricity and gas prices and oil prices. What's important to say is that its funding goes through several types of fees, and that's primarily certification or licensing of users on the energy market, then we have regulatory prices. So, on the proposal of the Energy Agency, the Government adopts, and based on the assessment of public enterprises, the price of electricity is that in all EU countries and Member States, and so is the country that are members of the Western Balkans, as they call us EU countries. So, this principle of price regulators, in fact, shows this kind of independence and regulators, otherwise, in the region and in the EU always discuss these prices when it comes to electricity. Indeed, when you look at the price of electricity, the economic price, that is, what you would say is a market price that is certainly twice as high as it is in Serbia now, it shows, in fact, that the state really cares about all its citizens, especially social categories that are not or are able to pay this price of electricity and therefore really through the price of electricity and the price of gas, you can see that the budget of the Republic of Serbia actually keeps this price at its minimum level and thus helps social all structures in the Republic of Serbia, because in a certain way it actually projects these prices effectively. Of course, it is done by experts working at the Agency, who, by their systematization of jobs, gives the condition that you have to work as an expert for a minimum of five to ten years in this area and, simply, all the people who are employed in this agency are exclusively dealing with this topic from their professional point of view. As far as politics itself is concerned, when we talk about politicians, in the Agency, in these agencies, both in REM and in the Securities Commission, there is no policy because these topics dealing with their respective competences show the stability of the functioning of a state, ultimately and trust of the state in institutions, but also citizens in the institution itself. So I'm saying that when we talk about the Energy Agency, based on the revenues it has from licenses, from the certification supervision of certain users and participants in the energy market, it's like EPS, ESS, Serbiagas, Transgas, Transnaft, to carry out certified surveillance, it's got to apply to the Energy Agency to get some certificates. If they meet the requirements, they therefore pay certain fees and fees for them and have certain licences and, on the basis of these revenues, the Energy Agency is designing its financial plan. These revenues for the next 2021 are 220,245,434,00 dinars and these revenues are 1% higher than for 2020, and the Agency’s Finance Plan itself has been made so that 58% of the realisation of this year and a stable inflation projected by the NBS has been taken. As you can see, we in the Republic of Serbia really have stable public finances. So, they are not in crisis like many countries in the region or even in the European Union, and even in the world because of the coming pandemic, and that's very important because these financial plans are sometimes actually implemented, up to 90%, 95%, and sometimes, when you can't realize them, when it comes to these institutions, we'll see that it was the Securities Commission, then you're making changes and supplementing the plan because if you take over certain powers from some other laws, then you just have to change your plans to, as the people would say, spread as long as your yorgan is. Therefore, as much as you earn, you can spend as much and behave responsibly as the state institutions and, thanks to this behaviour and that psychology, we also entered as SNS in 2014, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, in public finance reform, in the process of state money, in solving burning issues when it comes to large debts and today, in fact, we have the results of this work. We are today broadcasting government securities from values, making, simply, in this field of government bonds by replacing expensive loans with cheap loans and, in fact, making revenue for the budget from which we are able to finance, as you can see, health care. On the other hand, as you can see, a large part of the infrastructure projects we want, in fact, to push economic growth to stop the fall that has hit all countries not only in the region and Europe, but also in the world. When it comes to the Energy Agency, it should be said that these revenues are actually 5% of the money in terms of licences, when it comes to regulatory fees 88%, and when it comes to other revenues from earlier years, because many public enterprises may not be able to pay the regulatory fees that are in certain volumes, and then there are certain debts from previous years and that is 5.65% for the next year and then we have, on the basis of that plan, actually projected expenditures. Of course, most of it applies to wages. Their salary increase neither in this year nor in last year was followed by the increase that was followed by all state institutions precisely because yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that their salaries were designed on the basis of other institutions in line with certain salaries which are characteristic of the Judges of the High Court or Cassation Court or in certain ways defined by law. When such laws were passed ten years ago, the goal was actually to keep professional people from working in these agencies because, believe me, in public enterprises, this profile of engineers has much higher incomes. Then, the energy community always wants to have very professional people from Serbia and those salaries that have always been offered to them as experts are much higher and therefore the Republic of Serbia, and when it started long ago with these salaries projecting, wanted there to be professional people in this agency who would have enough salaries not to think at all that they would change the other sector, to go either to public enterprises or to international organisations. With that in mind, wages are really on one envious level when we talk about members of the Council. They're not what they used to be in 2012. So they're in a much smaller volume than they used to be, but their increases didn't go in proportion to the salary increases in the state sector. They went all the way around 3%. They have always been in line on the basis of income and on the basis of Serbian citizens' standards, that they are in these volumes that simply won't bounce much from other state authorities. I said, so 78% of the expenditure is the salary, 8.45% is the lease of business space. We, as the Committee, tried to help, since we found a situation where they were paying the rent to a private company, to find a place for them to pay the state, along with the Property Directorate. It's just that on a few occasions we got the answer that it's not possible, that there's not enough space, because there's really a lot of demands from state institutions for that. On the other hand, we also tried to ask through the city of Belgrade that if there is a certain space in the lease, there is room for this institution, but indeed in writing we have received the answer that so far there is no solution. The Chamber of Commerce also needed a certain space to move one, to move the other, but it did not happen. We are very sorry, because we believe that this 8.45% of the total budget would be very good to enter the budget or the city or the Republic, but of course it is still up to them to fight and to seek, if there really are state bodies that would rent this space. As we can see, expenditures are written according to incomes and, as such, they have their own realisation during the year. I don't think those limits have ever been exceeded so far. It's always been over 90%, which shows in fact that the plan has always been made responsible. The second institution to which we are due today to agree on the financial plan is the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2021. In accordance with the Law, Article 34, on electronic media, we have had in the past advocacy if you remember and amend and supplement this law, precisely because of many of the situations that have been happening in this area. Regulators shall implement the financial plan and bring it to their bodies called the Board of Regulators. Total revenue and expenditure shall be determined on the basis of the collection of certain fees. There are 647 media service providers that are TV, radio and cable, as well as radio TV. When you look at this report, you will see that, based on all the projections, a plan was given what it looked like earlier years, so what it looked like in 2019, what it looked like in 2020, and what the plan for 2021, what the revenues looked like, what the expenditures looked like. Of course, the case was also good for 2019, which showed that the revenues were higher than the expenditure, that the surplus existed from 23,200,000. The surplus has been paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. The estimate is that for 2020, an extra revenue of 25,531,000 will also be realised. This means that it will also be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that for the projected and planned for next year, they do not have a planned surplus, precisely because the planned income is 313,453,000 and as such it simply shows in this table when talking about the participation of estimated revenues for 2020 that the fee for television is 249,643,000, for radio 18,426,000, and for cable TV 29,71,000. Why am I saying this? We here need to ask ourselves when we talk about many issues about revenues in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and also in the budget of state institutions, many of the issues that bother us in the media area is that if you have certain televisions that are registered in Luxembourg based on certain funds established by them, such as N1 and Nova S, the question is, if they pay through certain cable operators certain fees, what would be the payment to the state, or to the Republic of Serbia that they are registered, like all others registered in the Republic of Serbia itself? Surely this fee would be bigger, but the way the media space works would be far more fair in the competition when we talk about all the TVs, all the radio stations. It's unfair for someone to make their income abroad without returning their branches here based on broadcasting, as I say, where they're doing their work. This creates a complete inequality of the employees themselves when you look at them, who work for example. on televisions such as N1 and Nova S, compared to journalists working in all other domestic radios and television stations. Why am I saying this? Because you noticed that it was actually a good way to make certain political factors, as they call themselves, those who lead the opposition, such as Djilas, Jeremic and others so-called. "political leaders" simply pay abroad on the basis of the money we have earned from previous years that functioned until 2012, and we have heard what wealth they have in yesterday's debate, wages abroad and the whole media space is being seized through these TVs and practically that money is being used by citizens of other countries, not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I say it is very interesting for us that when REM reports to the Committee on Culture in general and say, simply, how much money is paid to the Republic of Serbia from all broadcasters, and how much less does the Republic of Serbia earn through the cable system for all those registered outside the borders of our country. So you see that the space for political manipulation through the media is very wide. Therefore, when any international organisations come to you and respect the fact that there is no freedom of the media, that there is no democracy in this area, it is simply not true because it is the most easy topic to criticise those who lead the state in the most responsible way. It is a model, obviously, for all governments who really feel responsible for running a highly responsible foreign and internal policy and ultimately responsible for their country's economic policy, such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Aleksandra Vukic. When certain experts come from this area, and even from the EU, we say first – wait, we wrote together laws where the state came out of ownership when it comes to the media. So today you only have two state services that are simply funded from the budget. These are AP Vojvodina's own and you have RTS. So, everyone else, if you remember, the local media, the local stations that they had, local self-government financed them, is gone today. You have project funding for certain projects that certain local stations have, you have a certain percentage, but we didn't have an example in Sapac that certain public enterprises funded Sabac television to advertise the mayor who went to international organisations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and criticized his country that there is no democracy and there is simply what is called freedom of the media. It thus violated all possible laws when it comes to finance, and otherwise, the budgetary inspection will now determine how money was spent by the citizens of Šapco and how they tried through so-called. "The freedom of the media" paid individuals who sat in Belgrade from journalists and didn't work at all in Sapac, nor followed media topics in Sapac, but spent the budget of the citizens of Sapac on some virtual media projects, which simply served as a campaign for those who today, who after that didn't even want to go to the elections, but simply propagated a boycott, because they couldn't even cross that 3% censorship in the previous elections. Therefore, you see that the functioning of such institutions in general is very important, shows great responsibility to all citizens of Serbia and to all political actors in society and I think that this institution is really trying to show to everyone, not only in the Republic of Serbia, to all actors, but also in the European Commission and in the European Parliament and in those who are in both the West and the East, that they are indeed running one responsible policy when it comes to the whole part of media service providers. So their project plan for next year is, in terms of compensation, 313 million 452 thousand 940 dinars of revenue. Based on these revenues, they project expenditure. Of course, most of it goes to profits, about 250 million, because you have employees and because you have members of the REM Council, who, of course, are elected here in the Serbian Parliament, where the Committee on Culture is offering a selection and a proposal for the benefit of REM candidates, then, fees from the Council membership fee. Of course, not only the Energy Agency, but the REM are members of international organisations and as such have an obligation to pay certain membership fees. Then, they have contracts on works designed under the government decision of the Republic of Serbia, as well as investments they have in this area. These are simple costs that show that on the basis of next year's revenues, they will have some three million 840 thousand fixed assets, and all the rest are these expenditures that I was talking about. Therefore, the financing of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media shows that this is how the Financial Plan is designed to meet all financial standards and simply covers all these expenditures. The third institution we are talking about today is the Securities Commission. It simply had to match the financial plan for 2020 with the situation that met not only this institution, but everyone else. First, the reduced revenues that occurred in this year were precisely because of the decrease in revenue of 19.14% in 2019. These smaller revenues, meanwhile, were in the process of breaking the new laws that we adopted in this Assembly, which is the Law on Audit, the Open Funds Act and the Alternative Investment Funds Act, gave new powers to this Commission. By giving new powers, they simply gained the opportunity to have new benefits. But at a time when you don't have enough revenue and you just need to start doing some new job and have a new income system, at that point you have one break in income itself. By doing so, the cost rationalisation is then like the Commission, which corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is normally in accordance with Article 260. The capital market law is required to hand over changes of plans to the Finance Committee, ultimately to function and to be brought into operation and to discuss here in the tide, we come to the fact that in 2019 they simply had a net loss of 6.8 million dinars, but they had a certain type of reserve. From that reserve they covered, from earlier years, covered that loss, carried out an external audit and received the opinion that it was in line with all the financial standards, and that for this year, in fact, the revenues that were much higher are now at the level of 118 million 895 000, and that expenditures of 117 million 441 000, in fact, this surplus of 1.444 million actually encourages that this year's payment is precisely to control the quality of the audit and the capital market participants sector has a higher charge. So the new revenue they made in 2020, based on new legal solutions, is 10 million 87 000. By the way, they have expenditures that are reduced to a minimum, in the sense that most of it, too, goes for profits, then material expenses, office business. What's important is to say that this surplus of income that is to be realised, a million and 454 thousand, is actually going to be the part that will, of course, be left behind for a certain type of reserve if there are some problems as they had in 2019. Of course, we have today on the agenda and a decision on the amendments and additions to the Statutes of this Commission. Why? Because we said they had a member of the 31st. The Act on Stock Reserves, the Law on Open Investment Funds with a public offering, on Alternative and Audit Laws, has been extended and this must be defined by the Statute. The last Statute was passed on September 22, 2011, as you can see, nine years ago. It means that indeed this Commission has shown that it has adapted in new ways of functioning the capital market, recognised what opportunities it is that the state is simply making progress in this area. It is obvious that it is progressing as soon as you see that it simply responded quickly in terms of having fewer incomes, you find new opportunities for new revenues to design in an adequate manner of expenditure, without asking for money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as it was a difficult situation in 2015 and 2016, where we had to substitute 50 million from the budget for the functioning of these institutions, and just as all institutions couture with their budgets, when the financial consolidation of public finances was ordered and when economic reform was made. You know, when problems start to happen then they look at all institutions, and when you have good income and you have good results in public finances, then it's obviously a feature in all institutions. So as politicians, we make really important decisions. Here in the Serbian Parliament, we pass important laws, we create an environment that institutions can function in a quality way, but that requires political will. Obviously, there was no Alexander Vukic and the SNS in 2012, who took responsibility and together with the SPS went into a complete political turn, into a rationalization of the functioning of public finances and at all political life in Serbia, today we could not talk about the responsible policy of the Republic of Serbia towards our citizens and at a time of this pandemic where all countries have big problems we have shown ourselves extremely responsible for paying the least price of this pandemic and at the time we designed Serbia in 2025, a major investment boom with our projects and we will see it in the budget for next year. So it wouldn't have been if we hadn't really acted as a state and as politicians towards our citizens of Serbia. That's why we get the support of our citizens in the elections, and I think that's how it's gonna be safe for the next years to come, because we're thinking about Serbia's future, our children's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1160	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Serbian citizens, as counterpart Tomic said, today we are discussing reports and financial plans of a number of regulatory bodies. In front of us are reports from the Commission on values for 2019 and the financial plan for 2021, the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia and the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. For the sake of citizens, it is important to say that Serbia has installed regulatory bodies in its legal system as independent bodies, which are primarily entrusted to the functions of regulators, and a kind of controller of certain processes in society. The process can and must be called decentralisation of state functions and the transfer of certain functions to independent authorities. All of these regulators, regardless of the area they are dealing with, are chosen by the National Assembly and are responsible for their work. For this reason, the report on their work is adopted by the Assembly, which also gives consent to their financial plans. I tried to explain to the citizens of Serbia why they are on the agenda today. Perhaps the most important regulator is the Securities Commission, because first of all, it is the capital market regulator in the Republic of Serbia. It is important to point out that Serbia founded the Committee on Papers back in 1990, when the Constitution of 1990 introduced a market economy and returned the capital markets to the institutions after several decades of the planned economy and development. First, I would mention, first of all, the re-activatement in this regard, the Belgrade Stock Exchange and trade in actions. The main task of this Commission is the legal, fair and transparent functioning of the capital market and the protection of investors. In addition to its regulatory function, the Commission also plays a supervisory role in the case of capital market entities, which are stock exchanges, investment companies, depositaries, management company, open and investment funds, as well as funds themselves. Therefore, the legislative framework governing the work of this independent body is in line with international standards, and as a member of the International Securities Commission, it also cooperates with other members. The competencies of this Commission have been established in several laws, so that its work is absolutely not simple. It implies great responsibility in the capital market regulation sector, and most importantly, it provides protection for investors in the securities market, prevents the monopoly position, which is very important, and possible corrupt actions. In addition to the basic regulatory and supervisory functions in the securities market, the Commission has its own educational role, which is not less important, and issues a license to obtain the calling of portfolio managers, investment advisers and brokers. From these powers, the Commission's financial plan for the next 2021 has been uncontested and its responsibility, both in front of us and the Labour Report for 2019. It's connected to the whole, and that's why we're considering it this way today. When it comes to the second regulator I want to talk about, it is the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media, which had its original name after the formation of 2003 by the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and it was in accordance with the Law on Broadcasting. Because REM has been a subject infrequently behind us, I will stress that REM status is today regulated by the Law on Electronic Media adopted in 2014. It defines REM as a fully independent body which exercises public authority to implement a media policy, i.e. established media service policy. It is the responsibility of the regulatory body for electronic media in the field of improving the quality and diversity of media services, and I would in particular underline the role of REM in caring for the preservation and development of freedom of opinion and expression in the media, which is the most important objective REM should achieve, is the public interest, i.e. society in the field of electronic media. My colleague Tomic spoke about the use of national or local frequencies as a public resource and the obligation, especially the users of the national frequency, through their programming schemes and content, to contribute to the public interest in all areas. How many anomalies are in the media program of one part of the electronic media we could talk about. The tide will soon include a selection of missing two REM members who have expired their mandate. The Committee of Culture has done its job. So, the plenary session will be close. We also heard on the Committee what is the problem of the REM Council members, because criticism is possible one-way, but co-operation would have to be absolute in order to correct what may be wrong at this point. When we talk about criticism, then I'm not talking about that diabolical approach we've had lately, which is that we react depending on who we like or don't like, so that through the prism of an individual or a few people we define and just a regulatory body like REM. We need professional journalism, and it would be a sin to say he's gone, we need rational reporting, not making what news just to be news. The victims of making what news we often know to be all of us who do some public work and are conditionally public, but all those who may be more important than us and these are Serbian citizens who are exposed to listening and living. We have heard many times in this room and in the last term critics and on the subject of excessive timing, we have realized the program and perhaps inadequate timing in which they are broadcast, and I am sure that we will also talk about it when we talk about future REM members. We also talked about how programs can be both unquality and superficial, and above all seriously misinformed. In doing so, somewhere we may forget the important fact that REM is not irrelevant, but it is not all-powerful. We must and I hope that it will be, as the current assembly of the Serbian Parliament, also possibly address the Law on Electronic Media, which should be improved and perhaps leave little room for the regulatory body in this regard to the matter. We are often dissatisfied with the absence of what I am personally, and I believe a good part of you, something called a school educational program, something called a program for our children, something we've had luck with as generations to grow up on, and today's children are afraid not to. But on the other hand, we can't honor REM as a mistake or a lack of fact that it doesn't exist. We must, as a society, regain consciousness and do all that is up to each and every one of us, to eventually return one of the pleasures that had been seen by Branka Cube. I still have this wonderful smile when I think of this great educational show that the kids had the opportunity to follow, it seems to me in a time between eight and nine in the morning. I'm sure today we have opportunities to educate our children in this way. I'm sure all the media houses, all the television houses have space to deal with this way with their programming scheme, exactly as I'm sure REM can't affect it. It may draw attention to something inadequate, but why did I say we had to deal with the Law on Electronic Media? Because we would have to give them space to possibly sound rough, but criminal policy isn't just at that level -- you shouldn't have done that, we shouldn't have done it another time. And then we act exactly the same in some time period that's not that long. So if we stop the practice of promoting the bad, instead of the right values, I think that as a society, we're going to step out seriously and have positive effects. Do we who sit in this hall have different generations, have the opportunity to be exposed to these bad values today? Maybe so. We built ourselves to some level, so now that impact would have to be smaller. But we still owe our children something that is not used to bad values, which is not important to idols, which is not imposed on social phenomena that at one point, in their own ignorance, children begin to accept as idols. This is a sensitive subject, and I know that I might be criticized for this, first of all, because I'm talking about this from a single angle, and from another angle, cost-effectiveness might be more important than this detail that I'm dealing with. But I won't give up. I will continue to insist that we must promote success, that we must be supporting the family, that we must be supportive of family values, equality, certainly, the right to respond to those who have been told the truth, which is also very important. We can no longer behave in a way that can tell anyone anything they want. And it doesn't make any difference, whether we're talking about the President of the Republic or anyone else, the vocabulary is practically the same as when two evil neighbors are fighting. The public discourse that is happening for Serbia is simply unacceptable. This may not be the subject that fits into the financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, but certainly when we talk about it, we have to put the accent on this moment. Their funding shall be carried out in accordance with their financial plan. However, if I am not mistaken, they have returned one percent of the neutral funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, in that sense, I don't even have a dilemma that maybe we should think about how the law should be changed by having fines compared to the law breaker, a team before we have the awareness that someone will not be proud of it, but that it will all go back to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I am not in favor of punishment at all costs, regardless of what applies to us from the Western Balkans that the greatest punishments we feel are the ones that hit us in the pocket. I'm in favor of talking about everything. It seems to me that we've been having an empty conversation for a while behind us. Maybe we should try it one more time. I'm always in favour of dialogue, and also of dialogue with media houses, in the sense that they really have to pay attention to what their contents and software schemes are and I'm always about getting to the middle of some deal, but really thinking about what's good for generations that come after us and for children who grow up and grow up first in spirit with our tradition. We have no reason to give up our Serbian traditions, moreover, we should go back a little bit and eventually remember that we have raised some healthy generations on healthy, even programming content. Maybe it's time to think about it, as much as it's retro, it seems to me that at this point, except for these difficult circumstances in which the planet is, above all, and because of the virus itself, we have additional pressure that negatively affects every creature, and especially our children, and also our frustrations that we all carry, regardless of whether we carry them from work, street, with ourselves or from the family itself, directly and negatively affect our offspring from whom we depend tomorrow and on whom we depend the day after tomorrow. We may be enough for ourselves today, but we owe our great-grandsons a healthy time. The Socialist Party of Serbia and MPs will certainly vote and support both the Report and the Financial Plan, again I say, in the hope that we will succeed in helping with our actions to make the situation, above all electronic media, a little better than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1162	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. Before we move on to the next authorized, allow me to read the notice about today's work. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The next authorised MP is Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1163	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are today due to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, in 2021. I think it's extremely important and good, because that way we will practically end the temporary funding regime of such an important body as REM. The regulator is not financed from the budget, but on the basis of a financial plan adopted for each year by the REM Council, and under REM law, by 1 November of the current year, it is required to deliver the financial plan to the Assembly for consent. In the event that the plan is not adopted or not agreed, the financial plan of the previous year is applied. That's why I think it's extremely important that this year we bring in the financial plan for work and the smooth functioning of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I will only remind all colleagues, but also the public, that the agreement on the 2015 financial plan was given at the end of that year, and then was delayed with the 2016 plan, which then continued to condition a constant one-year delay in granting consent to the REM financial plan. The planning of funding such an important body must not be suffered by delay or by what, regardless of the objective reasons for this delay, because once it enters this delay system, as I explained earlier, there is no end to it. I am therefore pleased that today's debate on the Financial Plan for the functioning of REM has practically interrupted this practice of temporary financing of an extremely important body. Under the Law on Electronic Media, REM has extremely high powers. The National Assembly, MPs, especially colleagues from the Committee on Culture and Information, whose member I am, we have an obligation to also monitor with due attention the work of regulators and law enforcement. Both, according to our functions, we took responsibility for the job. Members of the Council of the Regulatory Body of Electronic Media are independent and it is very important that I remind myself once again. So they're independent and independent in their work. REM implements public authorities in order to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, contributes to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression in order to protect public interest. In their work REM does not represent the views or interests of the authorities, i.e. the organisations that have proposed them, but perform their duties independently, according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with law and powers, and it is understood that they must not individually represent particular interests. On the other hand, no one has the right to influence the work of members of the Council in any way, nor are they obliged to respect any instructions relating to their work other than decisions of the competent court. The regulator makes sure that all software content respects the dignity of personality and human rights, and is particularly concerned about the lack of humiliating practices and scenes of violence and torture in the media. These are just some of the powers of the REM Council under the Electronic Media Act. They for their work, so all the REM members, answer to us, to the National Assembly. What I want to draw attention to on this occasion is the need for us as MPs to be the National Assembly in the future more intense and even more serious analysis and control of REM's work, as we should also do in relation to the work of the executive authority and all other independent bodies and other bodies that correspond to the National Assembly for our work. I'd just like to draw one interest from the financial plan for REM's work, in fact, what drew my attention. Since its establishment in 2003, by the then Broadcasting Law, the government has been obliged to provide spatial, technical, financial and other material conditions for the start of work of the then Broadcasting Agency within 30 to 60 days. In addition to money, there are no other conditions set out in the Law on Broadcasting at the time. Since then, the RRA has become the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, and since then, it has been renting business space. In 17 years, this body, which has enormous competencies, as I have already stated, and an extremely important role in society, has changed work space and headquarters four times. In recent years, this body has repeatedly addressed the Republic Property Directorate to resolve the issue permanently. The most important thing about this is that a considerable amount of savings would be achieved in this way, and the money going towards the lease would be paid in the budget, based on the difference in revenue over expenditure, that is, by the law on electronic media in Article 34(8). So I listed all of this because I think it's very likely, perhaps not in front of this conference, but the next one, of course, changes in media laws that need to be brought into line with the new media strategy. I think it would be high time for the work space to be resolved permanently for this regulatory body or at least if some future amendments and additions to the laws changed the provision under which the government is required to provide room for that body, so that we don't come into a situation that we don't enforce the laws that we ourselves make. Otherwise, what might be more interesting to the public than we do, we already know that, 105 systematicized REM jobs have, of which 81 are filled, most of which are in the Programme Surveillance and Analysis Office – 48 executives. As we know, the Council has nine members who are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the fields of importance for REM tasks. I think I will repeat once again that it is extremely important that this year we adopt a financial plan for the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which has an extremely important function in the protection and development of pluralism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1164	Thank you, colleague Vacic. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go. Excuse me, the word has the authority of Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1165	Now as an authorised representative of the SNS, I would first like to say that the SNS will support and vote in favour of giving consent to these financial plans by these three important institutions. In my presentation as an authorised promoter in front of the Committee, I explained in this technical sense what we voted on, when it comes to financial plans, how these institutions function, but now that we want to talk about these institutions and financial plans at all, then you can see that each of these institutions really depends on not only the policy run by the SNS, but the general majority and the parties that support Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why does it matter? Because obviously the change has been qualitatively done since 2014, when we changed a lot in the Republic of Serbia in the field of energy, if we speak from a political point of view, for important strategic projects that the Government and Aleksandra Vukic, when he was prime minister and also the Government of Ana Brnabic, continued to lead. These are the important strategic projects by which we have actually entered the most important projects when it comes to gasification in general of this region of the Western Balkans and the European Union. Because, remember, we participated in a project called the so-called project. The South Stream and precisely because of the bad relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation, Serbia was collateral damage in these projects, because we gave all of our support to such projects that were not realised. But it wasn't only Serbia that was collateral damage. The collateral damage was both Bulgaria and Hungary and Austria, which simply by delaying such projects came to the conclusion that international relations and negotiations between the European Union and the Russian Federation have fallen to a stalemate somewhere in this energy policy. We have always been a small country in the Balkans with the interests of our country and that is what is most important. When we talk about energy policy, we deal with the interests of our country, our citizens of Serbia, our budget. Why am I saying this? Because we have always seen good relations with the Member States of the European Union and with the European Union and with international organisations working with the Energy Agency in this area, such as the Energy Community, because it is working with all regulators both in the region and in the members of the European Union. That is why they have created one forum at the level of parliamentarians who have called the Parliamentary Plenum of the Energy Community, which has half the members, eight representatives of the European Parliament, eight members of the Western Balkan countries, where we participated in our work, my fellow Members, and have jointly overcome many problems in this area that are very difficult for members of the Western Balkans and the region. Why? Because what is imposed as a particular directive, opening the market, more competitiveness when it comes to electricity producers at all, gas producers that appear on the market, citizens who should simply enter into contracts and start that market, and not only that state-owned company is a very difficult job, not only for Serbia, but for all our countries in the neighbourhood, and that is somewhere that the European Union has long, long since ended. However, raising the quality of services when it comes to providing energy services and, in general, the Member States of the European Union are much easier in terms of developed European Union countries than in Western Balkan countries. Serbia is out there somewhere, because we really, really, energy when you look at it, are running one responsible policy. Of course, we also have this participation in renewable energy sources, because Serbia only with its hydropower plants, Đerdap and other hydropower plants, we have a 21.2% stake in renewable energy sources, and somewhere we have drawn a level, in negotiations with the European Union, that we will have 27%. We have indeed entered this business in the most responsible way since 2014, at a very difficult time, when we have implemented economic reforms. As you can see, it has not been easy on the political side to deal with both problems in the budget and pay salaries and pensions and pay all social benefits, and on the other hand to have no income in terms of these strategic projects that are important for both this region and the European Union. Simply when you stay somewhere on the tail of these strategic projects and don't implement that policy because big ones simply haven't made certain adequate solutions. So, big countries, as EU members and among them the fronts of Germany in negotiations with the Russian Federation, then we simply waited for some other time when, here, we welcomed that some projects called "Turkish Stream", we call it "Balkan Stream" because it passes through Serbia, so that the future current is coming in from Bulgaria to Serbia, goes out to Hungary and goes further towards Austria and towards other countries shows in fact that it should be extremely responsible, directed when it comes to certain developments in international policy and change and wait for the opportunity to simply big strategic projects in the future that await us to participate in them. Why is participation in them important? Because you, for example, in negotiations with the EU in the future, have the opportunity to through their initiatives that apply to all EU member states and to say, now they have special, we have special and relations with so-called. With a multi-city group, meaning four countries that also have energy interests for certain projects, new ones in the future, Serbia will always be a participant there, because in the future if it actually realises such projects, it will primarily increase its energy stability and security, and eventually have higher revenues in the budget and have stable public finances. It has proved that you have to be a wise enough politician, as Alexander Vukic was still there in 2014 and that many of the decisions we have made, which may have been difficult, especially when relations with the EU and Russia are always somewhere between the hammers and the anvils, you have to be extremely responsible, first to yourself, and then to your partners, and always to say honestly what you think you want, that you want this European path, that you want to co-operate in that area, but you will never give up any of your partners, such as the Russian Federation, who at some point in their political decisions really supported Serbia and now that those difficult moments simply won't give up any of the countries you've had good relations with, or even the Russian Federation, because they may have been currently in bad relations with certain EU members, even when they're concerned, for example, energy projects around which are being fought. Therefore, we are also hearing about this "North Stream 2" for which Germany as the EU's leading economic power is interested, and we hear about that it will eventually sit down again to discuss both Germany and the EU with Russia about such projects. Whether now is the time or perhaps some other time will come, as is the time for the "Balkan Stream", but you must be wise under such political circumstances. Aleksandar Vukic has shown this political wisdom in terms of energy policy and when it is in general the foreign and internal policies of the Republic of Serbia and has shown that he can deal with all the challenges that simply in policy change are coming. When you're dealing with such great challenges, then you're doing great results, because everything you're given to do now somewhere in the future is going to give your result, is it bad, it's going to give bad results, if it's good somewhere you're really going to get rewarded when it comes to your work. What Serbian citizens recognize, they simply recognize when you make good decisions and which are in their interest, not only do they vote for you, but they give you support to make difficult decisions that may not even know how difficult it will be for all of us, such as the pandemic and when we talk about Kovida-19 and when we talk about pandemic, when we talk about all the budgets and financial plans in this year, it has really proved that some of the circumstances simply and decisions you make require great courage, great responsibility, but also that they cost a lot. This cost, when you look at large developed countries, say the EU, is now at enormous amounts. For example, one Germany will owe 180 billion euros to cover its deficits in problems with the Kovid-19 pandemic. Why am I saying this? Because many countries in this year will have really negative results, minus 12%, minus 8%, minus 6%. Serbia will come up with one percent projected drop, and that means we will fall least when it comes to economic activity at all. Thanks to the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given in an adequate way indeed at a given time, in a comprehensive manner. So it helped the private sector just to keep it from falling. Thus, the state sector when it comes to our doctors, our fighters for our lives, and that is why in the future we will invest first and foremost in people who simply very much help us solve these problems that have hit all countries in the best possible way, in the sense that the least harm happens to Serbia how simple this damage is for everyone else. So when we talk at all about the work of these institutions, whether it's an energy policy, whether it's part of the media service providers, or the electronic media regulator's institution that exists just to regulate relations in this area, such as the Securities Commission, in fact demonstrates the responsibility of state institutions but also our responsibility to these institutions and our political responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. Because of this responsibility today, we can say that we must deal with all the challenges that surround us but that will await us in the future. So today we are adopting the financial plans of these institutions that represent their budget and as such we have a follow-up on this issue of Monday that will apply to all budget users. Today we are talking about these three institutions that are in charge of the work of the Serbian Parliament and of this assembly majority and therefore the SNS will support these financial plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1166	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents in the system, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has been given by the People's Ambassador Doctor, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1167	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Attending, it certainly is necessary to adopt the proposed decisions and financial plans in order for the bodies concerned to continue their normal work. But MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will continue to insist on the third of the three roles of the National Assembly. So this body is the most representative, most legislative but also the highest supervisory body. Please, this third aspect is very tight. We're kind of, I don't know under what circumstances, but we agreed to be very little and not be in the role of the highest supervisory authority, especially when it comes to so-called. Autonomous and Regulatory Bodies. Yes, they are independent, or independent of all other state bodies but not of the National Assembly. The National Assembly is a body that sets it up, solves and responds to and reports. Hence, their contact with the National Assembly cannot be just like today when certain decisions that are of interest to these bodies need to be taken into account. In that case, I want to draw attention to two things that are of paramount importance above all. Since I come from Novi Pazar, that I am often at the university, every time I see an improvised pellet factory or a pellets as it is said that smoke comes out of which it is rarely possible to see at any time, especially in the 21st century. If one car stays parked in the university yard, and it's bright, the next day it's no longer bright. So it's about tycoons that are related to certain structures of local or perhaps some other government and I don't know how they get licenses for such factories where big money is made to the citizens. Unfortunately, Novi Pazar, among other things, was the second place in the world for pollution. So, we have to activate all the bodies involved in energy and, of course, for environmental science, but since this is a burning question, I had to illustrate it this way to protect citizens from the abuse of various powers, and I just cited this as an example. When it comes to REM, our experiences, unfortunately, are not good that because of ineffectiveness in solving certain issues that are delegated to them, especially when it comes to complaints from certain media or groups or individuals who are victims of some media, I am speaking again from experience at local level. So, what do we have from what REM will decide after two or three years or what do we have from REM forming a commission, as was one case from Novi Pazar, and again REM deciding against the report of the commission? So we have some kind of passion and unprofessional relationship from this body. It's true, these are all experiences from earlier, but we can't ignore them. So we need to strengthen surveillance, we need to strengthen control so that these bodies are not only the form of a certain constitutional and legal structure, which is necessary, but to really function as needed. The second problem we faced on REM is also double standards. Obviously political and some other likely and corrupt relationship in which one media or subject is treated differently by one media or other, especially in relation to journalists, which is certainly not only about REM, but also about other bodies. What's an inevitable topic at every point is a hoof and all the damage it's causing us. Although it is not directly on the agenda, but I must convey what has been extended to our citizens, and I ask why religious communities are excluded, or religious community employees, from the government's assistance? So these are the people who are employees, who are citizens of this country and therefore I ask you to delegate this issue, and we will continue on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1168	Thank you. National MP Branimir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1169	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to talk about the agenda we're discussing today. One of the points is the financial plan of REM. It is logical to discuss REM's work on the tide, because REM corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for its work. In the previous period, REM's work, more specifically the selection of members of the REM Council, was also a public topic. Especially in the period from the beginning of this year and at the end of last year. So it was one period ahead of parliamentary, regional and local elections, and we chose then and then the members of the REM Council who were missing and thus we allowed this body to work uninterruptedly and to perform its role in the best possible way. This was particularly important, as I have already noted, because of the choices that were held at the time. Otherwise, the topic concerning REM's work was an inevitable topic during dialogue between authorities and opposition parties on electoral conditions. It was also a topic at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and later in the House of the National Assembly when it came to electoral conditions and then the MEPs intervened in these talks and we talked about topics concerning REM's work. Unfortunately, even then, and years ago, when it comes to REM, when the work of REM is assessed, it is always spoken from one political aspect, it is concluded from one political angle and, unfortunately, it is done by opposition political parties and I always have to say that REM is an independent body, that it accounts for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but that it is dangerous to put such pressures on such a body, because in an indirect way, it is suggested in which direction it should make certain decisions. We must not allow REM's work to be seen only in a political context. This body in its work relies on nine laws. Of course, central law is the Electronic Media Act. In addition, REM is directed, among other things, to the Law on Advertising, the Law on Public Media Services, the Law on Media Communications, the Law on Public Information and the Media. It is clear that REM regulates the work of media in all areas. So not only on politics, and on sports, and on education and on culture, and on information and on advertising. It's not just politics, although it's often put into focus. That is why it is important for us from the SDPS that this body performs its role independently, because it will only do its job well in the interests of all Serbian citizens. For the sake of the public, I must remind myself that REM is not engaged specifically in the work of journalists, but rather in electronic media service providers and that, among other things, its task is to be in a manner appropriate to democratic society. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Culture and Information has recently considered the proposal of new REM members and I expect that soon we will have a debate on new REM members and that this will be an opportunity to discuss the work of this body in more detail. It is therefore important that we preserve the independence of this institution, that we as a Assembly control the work of REM, but that we insist that it works in accordance with the Law, and when the proposals come to the agenda, it is up to us to choose the best candidates who will be responsible for their work in the interests of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1170	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1171	Thank you, Chairman. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Report, primarily, the Energy Agency, and on the other hand, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, but as well as giving consent to the Financial Report and the Statute of the Securities Commission. At the very beginning, I will say that certainly the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the aforementioned decisions in the voting day, and my presentation will focus on decisions concerning the Commission's values charters. I'm not going to say anything new if I say that, as far as values are concerned, in Serbia, it's, I say, traditionally not a regulated market and it's on one side when we look. On the other hand, when we look at it, there is a big space for progress not only in this area, but in many other areas, because Serbia has shown great progress. Serbia is a stable and secure country. I say again, there are many indicators about it, and at this time of the virus's coronary, when many major economies are on their knees, when they record major economic downturns, Serbia has shown the best result. Serbia, according to the IMF, Alexandra said at minus 1, but, Alexandera, I'm sorry, I'm going to be a little bit more optimistic, so I'm going to say that we might be between zero and minus one and you won't be mad at me. We have fiscal and monetary stability. We'll have the only increase in wages and pensions. Our agriculture is moving forward. On the other hand, in this time, I say, when one Germany is in debt, you see what the situation is, Serbia is an absolute leader in bringing foreign investment to the Western Balkans. Even 60% of the total investments coming into the region are going to Serbia and we will be on about two and a half billion foreign direct investments at the end of the year. No investor has given up coming to Serbia in addition to all these problems caused by the coronary virus. Now, I said about economic growth, but here I have to point out that and as far as public debt is concerned, Serbia will be at the end of the year at about 59%, not coming back at a time when Serbia was about 80 per cent or something, I will just say that at this point, one Italy or one France has a public debt of over 100%, and on the other hand, the countries of the region that are even EU members have a public debt greater than Serbia. Also, I must mention here, Serbia successfully returned to the dollar-based paper market after seven years of break. We have introduced ourselves to the international investment public as a stable and secure country, a country that currently has security in every sense and we have shown the smallest economic downturn in terms of these crowns worldwide, but also the projected biggest economic growth in the coming year. A demand of as much as six billion U.S. dollars has been made. Of over 200 credible, to say primarily American and British funds and also banks and also insurance houses, which is five times more than the offered emissions. All this is about Serbia's great progress, about the trust investors have in Serbia, how far Serbia is moving forward. On the other hand, when we talk about the securities market of value, it is, I said earlier, traditionally unsettled in Serbia. The reasons for this lie primarily in tradition, in mistrust, but certainly in the ignorance of our people. Traditionally, we have to say here completely, traditionally Serbian citizens invest primarily in real estate, on the other hand in banking, but also in private business. We cannot safely compare ourselves to developed stock exchanges, primarily in America and Asia, but we can certainly work further on this matter to move this issue forward. Without monitoring world practice and liberalisation, to say the rules with us in Serbia, but I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made a major step in this area in the past time, there is no progress in this area, first of all, that the primary market of paper of value is shallow, and hence the secondary market cannot have any major traffic. These are objective conditions that rule in Serbia. I'm sure in the coming time, I'm primarily saying that for the Securities Committee, it takes a lot of doing to make this market better and to go, as far as this market is concerned, even bigger steps forward. From what I'm told, I'm only going to say once again that the PG of Unity Serbia in voting day will support the aforementioned decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1172	Thank you, colleague Kosanic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. (Jorge Milicevic: I don't have a card. You don't have a card? We'll move on to another speaker and we'll get back to you. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1173	Dear President, first of all, ladies and then gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the most important peoples of the Republic of Serbia, I have to say before I start to say that as I studied not far from here, at the Faculty of Law, for just five minutes walk from the National Assembly, every time I passed this plateau in front of me, I had this dream that one day I would go up the steps of the National Assembly as a National MP, and I can't believe that when I was only twenty-nine years old, that dream came true. The greatest honor I have ever had in my life is to represent the people and the country I love in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to report with a slightly nicer subject today, but unfortunately I'll focus only on the media, or the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Since I'm a lawyer by profession, I'm reporting today to defend people. I'd like to defend all these young people who were the subject of disgusting attacks by the media before the election, during the elections, and even after the same. Before the elections, all these young MPs, not all of them, were attacked through social networks and now these attacks continued on television with national frequencies, such as, behold, miracles, as Mr. Marko Atlagic, N1 and Nova S. They attacked Luka Kebar for laughing, because of his hairstyle, Anna Beloic: At the first session of the Assembly, they said that she did not know where she came from and doesn't know where she was going. The attacks continued. I read that disgusting text yesterday about Ivana Popovic. They say, "Why did she rent an apartment in Belgrade? How is he going to make jam in Krupanj when he is at a session in Belgrade? "Imagine how far those levels of attack go. Now, while I'm going to support this decision on the REM financial plan, all I'm interested in is whether REM will do a little research on these attacks because they continue? The topic of their attacks was other young MPs, Ivana Nikolic, Janko Langura, and it will just continue. Where are all these media outlets to mention some nice story about us, to, say, tell a story about Peter Vesovic who's a doctor in Prokuplje? He worked at the emergency center, and then when he came to work for his country, that is. When he got the call, the moment he accepted it. Where are all these media to tell a story about him doing it and coming here to work for less pay than he had there, but he continues to work for his emergency center because he helps people in this difficult situation? I'm looking at why they're targeting us all, so to speak. I would also mention a colleague of Jovanov, who is a little older than us, but imagine he dared at the previous session of the Assembly to mention that a criminal was offered money to kill the president of the state. Now it's my question for all these media, is it possible that as a young man, it should be a shame that I don't want my country back at the time that they killed our prime minister, because I know how the people lived back then? Should I be ashamed to want to stay here, work here, build my family and my future here and not want the future the way our past was? Why are they attacking us? Are we young, uncompromised, that we do not come to the assembly session with some expensive car for which we have no explanation of where we come from? What's the matter with them? If all these media had come to get to know all these young people a little bit better, they wouldn't have laughed at them, they'd be crying about not having been in the MPs' benches since the 1990s, these people who love their country, who are willing to fight for it, who think of peace and stability, not wars and an ugly past. I have a lot of acquaintances who would like to deal with politics, but they won't. They won't because they know there's going to be a target of these same attacks by those same media and they just want to be able to walk free on the street. Now, my question to all these media, if they want Serbia a better future, what message do they send to all these people? They're sending a simple message -- just try to work for your country, we'll attack you and we'll laugh at you, we'll drag you through a variety of shows, and if necessary, we'll draw a sniper pointed at your head on the front of the NIN. We're going to draw various cartoons about you where we compare you to Hitler or Pinochet, and if you happen to have children, it's not a problem, and we're going to attack the children. Where's REM? Where's REM to investigate all these attacks? These media media, if they want Serbia to have a better future, as they say they want, then why attack people who need to build that future. Look, everyone here needs someone to replace us one day. This is not the bench that says my name - Ilija Matejic. I first offer to be replaced if I do nothing good for my country for the past year and a half. My message to those media is that they just keep attacking us. That only shows their true face. It shows nothing bad about us, because they can't find anything wrong with us, and we're not made of sugar, we're not gonna melt. Just let them attack. What I learned in the martial arts is that after every blow, no matter how much it hurt, I came back stronger and stronger. I've always come to the next practice, even with a black eye, and it's not just me, so are all my young colleagues. I know that because I've had enough time to meet them. So just attack freely, we will continue to work because our country's interests are above our interests and we will continue to fight under our beautiful flag to create the future our people long deserved. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1174	I thank my colleague for your first talk at the National Assembly. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1175	I thank the Honorable President for his insight. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague has finished his speech with martial arts. Dear fellow, you know how, what this is doing and what the opposition is doing today, when you're already talking about martial arts, because I'm a bit familiar with the game of the case, too, it's like a cat with an imaginary opponent. You invite those media who suit you and then you have some performance there, and those who don't respond or throw out or threaten them, or you just try not to answer their questions, and you threaten them just because you don't like the way they inform and you don't like the questions they ask. That's all I wanted. Well, I hope you don't mind me doing a little dipression. So, I think the topic is extremely important and during my colleague Tomic's day yesterday, I'm sorry, for reasons I know that you were absent, I presented the position of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to the work of the committee that you chair. We really believe that you are doing your job responsibly, seriously and committed and, as during yesterday and today, I will say of course that we will support the conclusions of the Finance Committee and we are very happy to participate in the work of your Committee, the Committee that you chair, and we are very happy to participate in debates that are very high-quality and we are looking forward to the debate that will take place on Monday when we discuss the budget for 2021. Today we have financial reports on the agenda, but certainly today's topic is the opportunity to discuss some current developments in Serbia that are particularly relevant to the work of some independent bodies that are part of today's report, specifically when we talk about REM, because we have a long period of time in Serbia, one thing, I would say hysteria on REM, which is primarily directed from one part of the opposition. I understand that very well. When you have no policy, when you have no idea, when you have no program, then you have only one goal, which is to try to deal with the editorial policy of the media, to bring Serbia back many years. This history in Serbia, in its worst form, when only one opinion could be heard, will not return and will not be repeated on their great sadness and try what has always been your ultimate goal and during the talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences and during the inter-party dialogue, and the confirmation of what I am saying we could hear during yesterday is asking questions from one of the fellow MPs, who once again mentioned the transitional government, so what is the goal - to try without a choice to reach power and privilege, which is certainly not possible because democracy in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, you know very well, is achieved only in one way, and this is in the elections and through citizens' confidence as it happened in the last parliamentary elections. They are not interested in elections, they are not interested in election conditions, they were not involved in dialogue and in the Faculty of Political Sciences and in inter-party dialogue. They were only interested in one thing, which is that they had representatives in REM, they were interested in RTS editorial policy and were interested in the editorial policy of the private media. As far as REM is concerned, we have clearly defined laws. We respect, as European Parliamentarians say, their good European practice, we respect European legislation, we want to implement everything that is positive, not because of the European path, but because of Serbia and our citizens, but allow, when it comes to REM, we have clearly defined laws, laws adopted here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that clearly define the procedure as well as how the REM members are elected. When it comes to RTS, we said it during interparty dialogue. This ruling coalition has not set up any RTS editors. You want to change the RTS editor? Change it. We have absolutely nothing against it. You want a bigger presence at the Public Service? You could have participated in parliamentary elections and this way through the work of parliament, because parliament is directly transferred to the Public Service. If you felt that you had the confidence of citizens and if you were convinced of this, you should have participated in parliamentary elections and have your representatives, you participate in the work of parliament and you are present at the Public Service. You're not in the debate, you're not in the debates, you're not in the RTS shows. That's not true. Simply, the analysis does not support such a finding. Otherwise, my personal position, if I were to ask myself, I would allow them to attend the Public Service as much as possible during the campaign because the moment that we made certain recommendations and a specific plan in agreement with REM when it came to the public service campaign, the moment that part of the opposition that wanted to participate in the elections was present at the Public Service, he did not reach that famous censorship that we dropped to 3%. The more attendance at the Public Service and the more citizens are able to hear their views, the smaller and smaller their popularity. This is how the question is raised today after the parliamentary elections – which is yours and what is your legitimacy for you to be present today and to insist on being present at the Public Service? You're an extraparliamentary party. There are a lot of extraparliamentary parties. Does this mean that every out-of-parliamentary party should be at the Public Service? Allow me, and journalists know what the news is, so as soon as you're not at the Public Service, it means you're not news, there's no interest in Serbia in what you do and do. How do we even need to talk about commercial media today, when we're talking about private media that you're actually in the private media? I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Privatisation Strategy of the media was adopted in 2000 and almost all the media were privatized during that period. So in that period you wanted capitalism. You've got capitalism and where do you get the need to deal with the private sector today? On the other hand, private media are also monitoring research and private media are monitoring elections and election results. The fact that someone has 50% support, which someone can't even get to those famous 3% support, will not help you with the private media or the public service. It's not a media problem, and it's not a media issue. That's a question for your policy that you definitely don't have. We had as one of the conclusions of the working group of the government of the Republic of Serbia which worked to improve electoral conditions to hold a public debate and public debate on the participation and presence of political parties participating in the elections with representatives of the media with national frequency and we had this debate here in parliament. The organizer was the Committee on Culture and Information. Of course, part of the opposition did not want to participate in this kind of debate. They were representatives of all national media, they were representatives of REM, and then we very clearly defined the regulation when it comes to public service and recommendations when it comes to commercial media, or private television. Otherwise, our position, the view of the SPS parliamentary group, is that the media in Serbia must be autonomous and free to decide. The interest of ownership is certainly primary. We don't want any way to deal with the editorial policy of the media. In 2009, we were part of the ruling coalition and then we voted against the amendments and additions of the Public Information Act, together with our coalition partners from the JS, because we felt that such a law was a pressure on objective and professional journalism and we did not want to go back a few steps, in the period before 2000 when the SPS was exposed to the pillar of shame precisely because of the media. You know, thesis -- if we're in the media, the media image is good, and if we're not in the media, the media image is bad. Some opposition representatives say -- we are not in the media, and they constantly complain about the media in the media. I repeat - don't underestimate the media, because the media knows very well what the news is. As soon as you're not there, you have to wonder if what you said at the press conference is worth any news in Serbia at all, is that news in Serbia, and is that something worth the news in Serbia? Don't underestimate and insult the journalistic profession that way. When it comes to REM, so, as I said, it takes a longer period of time than a hack and hysteria that is directed towards REM. I said what was the reason, but in that I think those who lead such a kind of hack and hysteria at REM forget only one thing – what is really the essential role of our MPs, us who have the legitimacy and trust of citizens and who are passing laws? To strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, not to push independent and regulatory bodies into a political ring, to push them into political mud, to achieve our goals. Our job, therefore, is to support REM in what is most important, that REM works according to the law, not to interpret the law as it suits each of us at a certain point and to ask and insist that REM violate these same laws and interpret the law as we wish. It is not REM political entity, it does not participate REM in parliamentary, local and rural elections, it does not decide REM who will win or lose in parliamentary, local and rural elections, nor does REM have an obligation to follow the elections, but it has followed the elections, because we have made such a conclusion during the inter-party dialogue and during the talks we had at the Faculty of Political Sciences. Because REM did a detailed analysis of the presence of political parties that participated, but very interesting. In this analysis, the highest percentage of the presence in information shows, in the journals, so I'm talking about information-based televisions that followed the election campaign, the highest percentage and the highest representation have exactly those political options that did not participate in the elections. So, those who boycotted the elections have the largest presence in the media, which is unimaginable and unimaginable. It is very interesting that, when we are already talking about European parliamentarians, and during yesterday's day, the question is how will someone turn away from the EU opposition, so the EU will put us in line, make us talk, that we accept certain conditions, it is very interesting that these European parliamentarians came to REM the moment we finished inter-party dialogue and when we finished talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences. That's when they said, I'll remind you that that's when they said there were two parallel countries, two parallel institutions and there were parallel media. Then how can there be no media freedom if they say there are parallel media themselves? They are the same parliamentarians who have expressed concern for democracy, and these are the same parliamentarians who were concerned about the freedom of the media in Serbia. As far as democracy is concerned, we have sent them a clear message – there is no reason for you to worry, democracy in Serbia, I said, is already coming true in the elections and only in the elections. As for freedom of the media, you know, it's a little hypocritical that European parliamentarians are suddenly engaged in freedom of the media. Why do I say that? In 2011, we had a report by Verice Barac in which it was very precise, explicitly defined and said that there is serious concern for media freedom in Serbia. None of the European parliamentarians then showed interest in the freedom of the media in Serbia. I asked Tanja Fajon this question. Mrs. Fajon said - I was not in charge of Serbia at the time. I asked her – were you a European Parliamentarian? If you were a European Parliamentarian, and you have so much interest in Serbia, then at least you could have asked this as a question. The highlight of everything is when we talk about Serbia's political scene, and who today is dealing with freedom of the media and who is asking the question of freedom of the media in Serbia? Are these the same ones who illegally owned the tabloids, who blackmailed the media through their marketing agencies, every second of national television, or television with a national frequency? Are these the same ones who sent the police to the newspaper when they published anything about their misdemeanors during the period when they performed responsible functions and when they were in power? The same ones in whose time there was only one opinion, the same ones who wanted to edit RTS with a motor saw, physically attacked journalists TV Pink. The same ones who sent clear messages through a press conference to shut down commercial television, private television, and that they would file criminal charges against the editors of the daily papers just because they were doing their job and making known what was true. Isn't it true the interest of all of us? You know, when we talk about media representation, it's very interesting, let's say the videos with the invitation to boycott the elections that were broadcast during the election campaign, I took this data from REM's report, about 400 times were broadcast on the channels of two TVs and paid by one production house owned by a journalist, who claims that the videos have nothing to do with the opposition and that she published them free of charge on the party's YouTube channel, and it's about the party of Freedom and Justice, she'll still have to report them in the annual report. We are now insisting on both REM and all the competent authorities and institutions to deal with these issues and give us a concrete answer as to how this is possible and whether it really happened. Let's say, in the United Kingdom, what they are constantly calling for, the laws and even the United Kingdom, according to United Kingdom law, for example in debate shows during the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen MPs, cannot participate those who are not participants in the election. We have advocated this, and we will also advocate the follow-up of the dialogue. Please, if you want to participate in the elections, we have nothing against debate shows, every political party needs equal representation. The more debate shows, let's see a concrete programme, let's see people who are guaranteed to realize the programme, because it certainly wants to help Serbian citizens identify who they will trust. But if you don't want to participate in the election and boycott the election, then what's the point, then what's the reason for your appearance? So once again at the very end, we will support in the voting day all reports and we feel that we should continue as MPs to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, but also to conduct open dialogues and debates when the need arises. During yesterday, I said, very often, the ruling coalition's views are not entirely identical with the attitudes of some independent bodies, but it's not a problem. That's why we're here to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1176	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1177	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing independent regulatory bodies. The existence of such institutions is evidence of democracy in our country. It is very important that we have institutions that are not controlled by the executive power, but controlled by parliament, or by national representatives. They shall regulate in this case areas such as the Agency for Energy, the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media or REM and the Securities Commission. What's very important about the Energy Agency is that it controls the price of energy, energy, and it's very important when our country faces the challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic to run a socially responsible policy in the sector, especially according to the most vulnerable parts of our society, I primarily think about pensioners, but I also think about economic operators, companies, etc. Also, this agency deals with the licensing of energy entities. The end from which I come, Sandzak, the Sanjak municipalities, in most cases in heating heat heat, use fuels like coal, like a mule, and then we have a lot of pollution. Our party leader, academician Muamer Zukorlic, spoke about the situation in Novi Pazar. I must point out that Novi Pazar is in the second or third position of that infamous list when it comes to pollution. The first is Beijing, which has 17.5 million inhabitants, the second is New Delhi with 26 million inhabitants, and the third is Novi Pazar with 150 thousand inhabitants. So, if we consider the number of inhabitants, the number of cars, the industry in Beijing and New Delhi and New Market, it's absolutely clear what's causing it here. Then this Energy Agency has a lot of work to do. The essence of solving this problem is the gasification of the Sanjak municipalities, the leg towards Novi Pazar and the arms over Užica, Zlatibor towards Prijepolje, the use of green energy, the potential of the Caverska Visoravan, especially the shadowy and tutin municipality for the construction of wind parks. As for REM, I must point out that this independent regulatory body must be more effective in its work. Of course they're completely independent, but we can't get into a situation like some other colleagues said, that you have a dozen phantom media that grow like mushrooms after rain, where people are attacked in the most brutal way. So, what does it mean to you, after four or five years, that you from the court are giving a verdict saying that this text is false? Your career business, your family, your reputation suffers. Who cares after four or five years what you got in that court, because that text, which was ordered, which was paid, did its part? To be clear, the absolute majority of the media is trying to work professionally, but there are media that you can't find in the register who's representing them, who's the editor-in-chief, who's the director, who's the capital behind them. Therefore REM must be more effective in its work, that we do not come to these situations. I want to point out that very often we can find these trendy, spiny texts that aim to have a personal degradation of people who deal with public affairs, political insinuators, but you will not find positive stories such as the existence of an organization called "Hajrat", a humanitarian organisation that operates within the Islamic community in Serbia, which daily shares thousands of meals in the Sanjay municipalities: Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoš. When you come to that facility, if you're someone who needs help, you don't need to bring your own cut of personal income, you'll get the most basic provisions of life and no one will ask you if you're Bosniak, whether you're Serbian, whether you're Roma, whether you're Montenegrin. Now, we can't find that in the media, which is a real picture of our society and our country, brave, responsible, honest and honest people living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1178	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1179	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, today I will look to the agenda point – the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2021. But before I touch the financial plan itself, I'd like to say a few sentences about the Agency itself. In fact, the Energy Agency was established by the Energy Act as a regulatory body with certain competences in the electricity, natural gas, oil and oil sectors, as well as heat produced in heat. It should also be said that this agency is an independent legal entity and is fully functionally independent of any state authority, natural or private person or any energy entity, but therefore the control function is entrusted to us, i.e. to us. To the National Assembly, where such reports are brought, such plans are adopted and reports of such agencies adopted. As far as the Agency's affairs are concerned, one of the jobs it conducts is price regulation, such as electricity price. The second thing is you're licensing energy entities dealing with energy activities, as is supervision of the energy market. Also, in this financial plan, we could read that in 2021 the Agency will be involved in monitoring, analysis, supervision, granting consent, but also in drawing up an annual report on the state of Serbia's energy sector, which is very important and what we will do in one of the next sessions and we will talk about this, as well as supporting the government and the Ministry in preparing and analysing energy strategic documents. That would be the simplest thing I could say about this agency. As far as the financial plan itself is concerned, I must express great satisfaction because I have encountered one very complete, one of the most complete plans of financial nature, and I have seen many. All praise for this approach. Why am I saying this report is the most complete? We can start with the basis for this annual plan for 2021. It is stated that the estimated revenues and costs, i.e. expenditure for 2020, the basis for the adoption of such a plan. Projected inflation for 2021 is also one of the things, as well as the current situation, i.e. Kovid pandemic, which condition that the basis for the development of a plan for the use of achievements must not only be from 2020, but also from 2019, so that is what is the basis for this plan. As far as income is concerned, it should be said here that this agency does not depend on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The revenue is totaled at the level of the 2020 plan, i.e. around 220 million dinars and an independent budget, revenues are from issuing energy performance licenses of 5.21% in total income. There you could easily determine, because you have a license register and you have projected a similar amount as for 2020, since licenses are valid for about 10 years. One of the most important revenues is income from regulated fees of 88.6% or 125 million dinars, which are accounted for by all economic operators dealing with transmission operations, that is electricity, as well as transport operations, that is natural gas and oil, at 1% of the value of the assets. The largest funds are there, taken from the public company Elektro Network Serbia, around 64.2% and the 25.48% "Serbian Gas" public company. I would also point out one very interesting thing, that the revenues that have a share of only 0.16 or 0.35% of total income are detailed, which is a feature of this report and that is for every praise. As for expenditure, it is mainly, as with all agencies, costs of 63.24%, rent costs of 8.42% and costs remained 3.36%. But now I would throw myself at that, and I end up with, why this report is very complete. I'll take a look at the basic parameters for profit costs, which are increased here. You are here explaining that the increase due to the increase in the base profit coefficient of 3% is the calculation of the year more for the past work, which I see here for the first time, and this is for the commendation, as well as the calculation of the mass of total earnings for the promotion in the business of 1%, the increase in the number of employees of 3 of the three associates, as well as the current rates of taxes and contributions in 2020, so that any item of this budget, whether in the income or the bulky side, is explained in detail, whether we go to plus or minus, and we are going to this proposal, the Single Serbia Group, with pleasure to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1180	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1181	The respected chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are today very important decisions on the financial business of independent institutions, each of which performs and how important tasks in our society. Each of them represents a control mechanism, as well as assistance for both the People's MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do their job as successfully as possible, as quickly as possible and as best as possible. I would refer to the Decision on the financial plan of REM, i.e. the Regulatory Body Agency for Independent Electronic Media. Why? Because media space and how important it is for every democratic country, and Serbia is taking big steps towards organised democracy. Therefore, it is also important to arrange the media space in the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must point out that the state came out of the media space by its law just after the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power. I must point out that REM in the highest percentage is financed from the fees paid by television, 84%, from the radio and the fee is 6% and from cable operators and the fee is 10%. I must also point out that all the excess revenues that this regulatory body has made before, have been returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget and these funds have been used for culture, for health care, for education, for social protection. The total number of media service providers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is 647. I have already said that the state has come out of the media and that there is a project financing, that part of the budget is financed by Serbia's Radio-Television and Vojvodina Radio-Television. What I want to point out and what is important for the Agency for the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia falsely operate televisions that are falsely represented as televisions, which have cross-border co-operation. Namely, it is N1, Nova S, which is registered in Luxembourg, but they are not re-emitting their programme from Luxembourg but from their premises in Belgrade. In this way, they blatantly violate all international conventions, and the purpose of this breach is to register them where there is a paradise space for paying contributions and taxes, because N1 television, Nova S, does not pay taxes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, they make money out of the budget, they demand money from our citizens, they make it impossible for Serbia to make further progress through the construction of roads, hospitals, kindergartens, but that is why all the money they draw from the Republic of Serbia they put in their private pockets. The owner of these TVs is the robber and tycoon Dragan Gilas, along with his paltos Solak, who was a pirate tape salesman in Kragujevac, and today he is one of the multimillionaires, along with the yellow tycoon and robber Dragan Gilas. I would like to stress that, apart from not paying taxes in the Republic of Serbia, they and how they are the source of unfair competition for all those televisions that work fairly in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and are fairly paying taxes to our country. Besides being unfair competition, they are operating in a gray zone, and by coming to power, the SNS has been persistently repeating that the gray zone has just been very suitable ground for crime and corruption. Dragan Gilas and his paltos Solak are criminals, or hunter of citizens' money, since they also abuse cross-border channels. What I also want to point out, as regards the election campaign, is that in the election campaign, a private company via N1 and Nova S broadcast a video with an invitation to a 400-time boycott. The total broadcast time for that video is about three hours, and only 1.2 million dinars have been paid for it. When the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media reacted, the video was downloaded, but therefore Dragan Gilas, his Alliance for Freedom and Justice, and I would say – the Alliance for Unfreedom and Injustice, took over for free and published on his YouTube channel. I must point out that the SNS paid 3.9 million dinars for 28 videos on N1 and Nova S. So you can imagine what the difference is in the money between the videos that were broadcast for Gilas, with a boycott call, and the videos broadcast by the SNS. And also, I want to point out one more thing, these yellow tycoons and thieves, the money hunters of the people and the people's couples, during the inter-party conversation, didn't care about the people, the voters' lists, the pre-election conditions, the conditions of pre-election silence, they were only interested in REM, they were only interested in RTS. They were interested in REM to set up their people and continue to pump out money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's the end of it. No one can use the funds of Serbian citizens anymore, for personal gain. Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon has just become rich and has acquired 619m euros, just at the time of the government's budget and was particularly obsessed with taking from those most vulnerable and weakest, leaving the families in Belgrade alone with 400m dinars, and those most threatened to provide money and food with 120m. I would like to point out that the tycoons and robbers Dragan Gilas and Solak, the owners of the cable operator SBB, who is also illegally operating, but a huge hack was just picked up on N1, Nova S, a hack by Dragan Gilas and Šolak, when Telekom was supposed to show up as a cable operator buyer. Imagine someone, which is SBB, cable operator Solaka and Dragan Gilas, who has 55% of the market in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is absolutely taking over the full monopoly when he was threatened by Telekom, who at the time had 15% of the cable market. Of course, they are threatened by anyone who threatens their monopoly and anyone who might appear as a loyal competitor. In his efforts failed, Telekom became the owner of the cable operator Copernicus and is very successful in business. When it comes to media and journalism in general, I must point out that the yellow tycoon, Dragan Gilas, is only ready to answer the questions of journalists who answer him. All other questions, journalists, and mostly women are rudely insulting, demeaning and closing their doors. Also, I must point out that Dragan Gilas also had a march on RTS along with his buddies, Obradovic, Jeremic and others with the yellow tycoon company association on RTS and with phantoms and motor saws. It seems that Dragan Gilas, the yellow hunter of the people's money, lives in a long time ago and does not know that Serbia has moved faster and faster every day thanks to Alexander Vukic in the last 10 years and has changed, that Serbia is a country of decent and honest people and that Serbia is moving faster and faster and faster towards progress and development. In addition, the recent expansion of the Panchev oil refinery opened by the deep processing plant has just been opened by Aleksandar Vukic, who will improve our oil industry, but also make it possible to produce oil coke that we have imported so far. For our children, we will support all the proposed decisions in the voting day of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1182	Thank you, colleague. Professor, Dr Jahja Fehratovic has a word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1183	Thank you, Chairman. A very important issue, the question of the Agency for Energy and the areas it deals with, given that energy is one of the key resources available to the state and which can be very helpful in building and those environments that are poorer, and on whose fields there are extremely rich resources from energy plants. Here, first of all, I think of a municipality like Sjenica that has one of the best resources, a coal resource, a coal mine, a barn with a diameter of over 30 square miles. What is very important, which should ask the question, if for each ton that is drawn from that mine should be a minimum of 5% rent, it would logically be that for each of those 5%, one part of the funds is allocated to the development of the local community, especially the community that is at risk and that is struggling with such harsh living conditions. I don't mention the Shadow for nothing. Yesterday, we were talking about very large malfeasances, the corruption of the former authorities that enveloped this poor municipality in Sandzak, which left millions of debts. This was also determined by the DRI, and as we said yesterday with over 262 million non-refundable funds gone, funds from the budget that were to be used for citizens, to improve their overall living conditions. However, what should have been done and what should have been done is to prevent all other opportunities for those who have committed such crimes to be in any position to continue to do so and to harm the citizens. Especially if we have the fact that this government is defined for the fight against corruption and crime, so it is very surprising what happened yesterday that we received from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government a document that tries in some way to support those who have done all these corrupt activities and that it simply enables them to continue to drink the blood of the citizens of the Shadow. We know in fact that this is part of what we said in the previous period, that the other rappers of the former government in the system and that they abuse their positions to make any partnership with those with whom they actually destroyed certain spaces and certain local environments during the previous period. Here we will specifically say that it is most likely about a gentleman who, in his previous term, has found the post of Secretary of State in this ministry, Ivan Bosnjak, whom we have very well met and who has, in fact, many times so far, made it possible for SDA party Sulejman Ugljanin to abuse the Bosniak National Council, to turn this representative body of the Bosniaks into the centre of the Party of Democratic Action without respecting the electoral will and in violation of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. It was likely in this case, too, because when those who had embellished the former government were SDA and SDP in Sjenica, they tried to make some performance and tried to legalise it in some way in the ministry, then Minister Ruzic refused to accept such people, and Ivan Bosnjak received it in the tenth month and gave them some hope that they would actually win. The question is whether it is because he would simply continue to support such power. Of course, the current minister, and former counterpart Marija Obradovic probably didn't have time to get to know all the details of this situation. That's probably why it came before her the paper she signed. Either the situation here is different or simply someone wants to keep this corrupt government, which has debilitated both the Serbian citizens' budget and the budget, especially the citizens of Sjenica, at all costs. Someone wants to flirt with the Party of Democratic Action, Sulejman Ugljanin, wants to leave them in power, despite the fact that they have destroyed and destroyed in any way during the previous period and Sjenica, and hence all the Sandzak citizens, namely the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So it's very important that we know what it's all about, whether it's about whether the relapses of some former systems have remained in this system and in this way wants to avenge the citizens and to extend, to protect those with whom they probably participated in manipulative matters during various affairs, or simply is some kind of agreement that wants to preserve, at all costs, the Party of Democratic Action, Sulejman Ugljanin, in political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1184	Thanks, buddy. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1185	Thank you. First, I'd like to commend my young colleague, Ilija Matejic. He had a great speech and I'm glad the SNS has so many young people and they have a desire to fight, indeed, scary monsters. That you're being insulted by these so-called. The media and so on. Journalists, fake journalists, by the way, that should serve you as an order. Every time you're attacked by "New S", "N1", "directly.rs" and similar, it's commendable, people, know that you've done a good thing. Let's just say, you grow up in my eyes right now, and it's an honor to you, go ahead. Well, when we talk about this so-called. The government controllers, by the way, respected young colleagues, and I must say, always have your position. So always have your attitude and think with your head. That's what's most important and make sure you're recognizable when you give a speech, that you're recognizable by something of your own. You don't have to learn anything by heart, because it's something that's the worst, but have your own attitude. As for the so-called so-called. It's a government controller, and that's what it's called. That fourth branch of government, here we're talking about their reports, etc., I personally wonder, I'm a major opponent of these government controllers, I'd put them all out. It is a completely unnecessary fourth branch of government that was introduced otherwise to employ the NGO and it was introduced in 2000 as one category, allegedly, as a democratisation, and then when you ask a question, I apologize, and who controls the authorities, and then you never have an answer. So they've been given incredible ingenuity. The ministry has taken charge and the ministries have been turned into icabans, and these various agencies, senseless, have been given terrible powers and they can make your life worse, they can do whatever they want, and you can never do anything to them. Accordingly, here we have this REM, sorry God that there is, otherwise established under another name back in DS, we have a body that you can't possibly change, actually, you have one senseless member about the possibility of changing someone in REM, which tells you that first REM has to report to you whether someone was doing his job in a safe way, and there's only way to replace a REM member if he was unconsciously doing his job. Come on, you guys, what was that "unwittingly doing his job"? Whenever you said something to a REM member, he would jump immediately – here, it is the pressure of the executive or legislative authority, etc. And you can't really change that member. When he's elected here, he's, like, nailed to that chair and they can do, of course, whatever they want. I have a terrible grudge against REM. I think it's a body that's been wrong in a lot of things in this country about, say, a lot of televisions that pay taxes here. I think Milanka's colleague spoke very nicely about it. We have at least two televisions here that are not television. These are cross-border channels that tell us that they are reportedly being broadcast in Luxembourg or Slovenia, and that they are being re-emissioned here, so I was always interested in whether the citizens of Luxembourg enjoy watching Olja Bećkovic live in a direct transfer to Luxembourg, so that the citizens of Serbia would watch it here. Why am I saying that? Because when you sue those TVs, say, they can slander you in the worst way possible. When you sue them, you cannot conduct proceedings against them in Serbia, nor can you charge for compensation of no material damage. Why? Because their legal teams come and say -- we're not registered in Serbia. The court, of course, has no jurisdiction to deal with it and they can say anything about you and they can never bear any coincidence because you can't sue them and REM has never responded to it. REM allows these to suck the money here, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to suck it out, to have companies that allegedly stand behind them, which are mostly in losses and deliberately show losses to suck money out of Serbia, and that is how it keeps going. Not to say what a shame it is for other commercial televisions, who pay for the commercial here. For every commercial you broadcast on your television, you have to pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia. They don't pay anyone anything. They don't pay anybody anything. It's a crime they do, and REM shuts up about that crime. They never told them the word. Now we're supposed to back the REM report? No, I am, personally, to put out all those agencies and that fourth branch of government. They're completely unnecessary. I'll never support... Yesterday was the Anti-Corruption Agency. Well, it's a pity God there's that agency. Besides harassing MPs, they don't do anything alive here. I'm a major opponent of those four branches of government. I'm about to get back to the departments of intelligence, make this some state, not that the NGO is harassing everyone here. I repeat, all these agencies serve exclusively to employ the non-governmental sector, for nothing else to serve, for them to adopt themselves, to be mostly on certain functions and for the state to pay enormous salaries to those people who absolutely do nothing, except to work as leeches here to attach themselves to the budget. Unfortunately, they also have great support for the EU, many Western countries and have just been introduced to control the state through them. Why are these gentlemen that Milanka was talking about, I'm talking about Gilas, Solak and this team, why do they want this REM? They don't care about anything but this REM. Well, because we could use REM to control all other media and advertising. Watch out for that scandal now. For example, you have a cable distributor in Serbia, I'm talking about the SBB, who owns these two televisions and citizens who pay the subscription to the cable distributor, and they also pay those two TVs. Are you aware of what crime it is that cable distributor owns television and REM doesn't react? Shut up. Why are you doing this, gentlemen? Who are you afraid of? Are you afraid you'll be crucified there, on those TVs? Well, I enjoy being told something about me. I'm happy because I know I did something right for my country whenever they attack me. It's an honor to be attacked by "N1" and "New S". It's a medal. Instead of being proud of what you've done for your country, let's say we sanctioned those TVs, don't you keep your mouth shut, be afraid, calculate, and we're supposed to support your reports here? I'll say one more thing, and that's what's going on with the pandemic of the coronary virus. You know, I didn't vote for that law on protection against infectious diseases. I think that law is in many ways unconstitutional and I think that law is very controversial in many things, but let's not get into it now. But, you know, one day this REM would have to react. This spread of panic through the media towards the citizens, that's creepy. My people, every time I watch these crisis headquarters conferences, I pinch myself later, if I'm alive. We hear about the coronary virus every day on all the news shows! It's over our heads. Stop that! There's nothing worse. If we're even going to be immune to people, well, it's a terrible thing to cause them panic and fear. Why does someone do that? It's like there's no other theme here. When we talk about the dead, although even Mr. Tiodorovic recently said that there is a death rate of 0.90%. That's below 1%. We only listen here every day to how someone died of the crown. God forbid, but, you know, here in the world and everywhere is dying of both heart attack and stroke and some other diseases, cancer. We can't hear anything about that. We can't hear if anyone's being treated by a cancer somewhere. We're just listening to him die of the crown. I ask the Serbian government not to accept the crisis staff's measures and much more with this experience towards people. Why should the businessmen be shut down? What's the point of shutting down businessmen? I'm sorry, today has been announced that this vaccine will arrive in England in five days, in seven days. Slowly these vaccines come to Europe. Why would anyone close here, a team before it's been this long since the pandemic, and how many people might have already been infected? So wait, is anyone asking if this businessman is going to share a salary? They say: "Well, it is not an entire economy of hospitality. I'm not just talking about catering, but this caterer, he buys beer from brewers, he buys juices, coke, he buys from all kinds of other suppliers, so you want to destroy them too? It's a whole chain here. What's the point of what's done? I ask the Serbian Government to disband the Crisis Staff as it is, and I ask the Serbian Government not to accept the measures proposed, which is that everything closes alive on weekends and that the working time is shortened. On the contrary, it is necessary to normalize all of this in this society, to return normal working hours, and to sharpen controls that violate measures. You can't hate St. Nicholas because of the bad Nicholas, so if someone's bad, let's just close it up now. But fine, then charge him the fine, and not everyone lives to suffer for someone bad. Crazy people more like this, and REM doesn't react because every day panics. I'm asking REM to react because panic is spreading. I do appeal to REM to do so. Accordingly, we will certainly support this report, but I would ask REM to be more agile and to respond to citizens' objections, which are entirely justified, sometimes even react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1186	Thank you. A colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, came forward as an authorised promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1187	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, we had a chance to hear from our colleague Djukanovic. In many things and parts of his exposure, we can find what is really our problem that we solve from the past. The theory of the fourth branch of government in Serbia, as a sector of NGOs, is a fictional topic that was imposed and ruled here until 2012. It was our task all these years to return the institutions to the jurisdiction of this country's laws, to return simply to the jurisdiction of all citizens of Serbia, because the National Assembly has jurisdiction over the institutions, and we are representatives of citizens. So that's exactly what our work is all about. The hardest thing to do is to talk about REM because the choice in the way members of the REM Council are very complex and I fully understand your anger, which is why you see these institutions, to act as certain NGOs and to sort of be the fourth branch of government. No, it's a topic that both Gilas and Jeremic and the whole team today represent some god-awful alternative in the political life of Serbia's future, to show us together with the European parliamentarians, who came here, what the fourth branch of government is. No, these are the institutions of the Republic of Serbia that are in charge of the work of the Serbian Parliament and which together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia create a policy in certain areas, whether it's energy, whether it's securities of value, whether it's a question of using media space. For this there is a law, there are obligations that media service providers must pay as compensation to REM, that from these certain means we go further investment in these areas and the state is the one that takes care of it. When we talk about who the controllers are in the state, so the Serbian Parliament has what it is. "control role" means controlling the work of certain institutions. In addition to having a supervisory and control role, when we speak to the Serbian government, in relation to certain ministries, through our committees. So, in fact, in 2012, we returned the institutions to whoever they really belong to and under the Constitution and by all applicable laws in the Republic of Serbia, and that is our goal to keep this fight going. Whether this fight is easy or difficult, as you can see, for some resors it's easier, for some it's harder. If you would return the Energy Agency to the power of the Ministry of Energy, my colleague Djukanovic, then the cost of electricity, in fact the minister should give a proposal to the government, not an independent body that has a purely professional basis for how these people are simply being appointed and employed, then the ministry would create a direct price for electricity based on decisions from public enterprises. Then they would simply come into a system in which the executive authority would dictate that price according to the needs that would then be brought on the basis of market principles. It's simply not a concept that rules not only here, but in the region at all and in the world at all. That is why there are regulators, and therefore there is one Energy Agency that, based on certain research from the economic profession and on the energy profession, brings certain proposals to the Government, which will or will not adopt, based on a proposal from public enterprises. Don't bring a minister. Ministers are changing, and the agency has experts who make certain decisions based on analysis and evaluation of experts. Why am I saying this, why am I talking? Because you see, for example, when we talk about energy, it was kind of easier to change people in that sense because there was an attempt, as you say, to declare itself to be a fourth branch of government, that certain international organisations run only that agency. We have somehow done so here, as the Serbian Parliament, as the responsible Committee on Economy and Energy and as the Financial Committee through our plans changed a lot, did and simply returned to the authority of the one to whom it belongs. Believe me, grades by the energy community aren't exactly what they were when they ran that policy, while Vuk Jeremic and his team led and managed the agency. It is no accident that some energy lobbyists, when we talk about Vuk Jeremic, funded his political campaign when he was, for God's sake, a candidate for Serbia's president, a rival, one of ten rivals, Aleksandr Vukic. It is no accident that he won eightm euros through an NGO, from some lobbyists in the energy field. You see how it's all connected. That's why I'm saying it's hard. Obviously REM has a lot of problems, but I think the Committee on Culture is simply taking care of that personnel structure, and ours is to really adopt financial plans, to give their consent. It is the only way we allow them to really function properly, because what is the budget of the Republic of Serbia for all other institutions, when we talk about direct budgetary users from next week to discuss next year, the financial plans for these institutions that the Assembly plays a role, are simply the financial plans that we are discussing today. That's why we support them. So I hope that in the future we will continue to fight, as you say, to find mechanisms to simply change the legal solutions that we are actually returning to what the institutions of the Republic of Serbia are, rather than some fourth branch of government where there really have been attempts. You are absolutely right that by 2012, some NGOs make such a breakthrough within these institutions and act as some fourth branch of government. It does not exist in Serbia, there is only the Constitution and there are laws of the Republic of Serbia and we will treat them the way representatives of Serbian citizens are, and these are MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1188	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1189	I'm going to use the line right now, these two minutes. I would really like, dear colleague Tomic, that this idealism like you said it was, and I'm glad that we as a party are first and foremost in favour of it, it would be great if such idealism were such an idealism. I'd just ask you to try to scratch the depths of who really are people in those agencies and you'll see for yourself that it's mostly a wave if you're a member of the NGO sector in general you can come there. And they are, in theory and practice, that's the fourth branch of government that no one controls. You just mentioned the principle of regulators in electricity, as far as EPS is concerned, well, I did get that thrown out. Once the ministry when you had and how it took care of social categories, we didn't need a regulator, so they could form a price without regulators. You know, if we need a regulator to form a price for us, I don't see the purpose of that existence. After all, are we advocating capitalism or not, so we tell people what this is all about. Serbia normally pays, thanks to Mr. Alexander Vukic and even a successful policy at all, we pay the cheapest price of electricity in Europe, but it is not thanks to the regulator, but because there is some policy to think about citizens and that is the essence. I'd love to, and here, come on, let's work together on that, since we're all Parliamentarians here, working on working together to be as ideal a picture as you've presented to us. I'd give anything in this world if that were the case, but in practice, you're aware that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1190	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1191	I thank my colleague Djukanovic for raising these issues and I think that in the future all the committees responsible for the work of these institutions should really take active participation, especially when it comes to human policy. You said that very well. I think we've all worked together from 2012 to today. Representatives of NGOs as experts, whether they can work in these institutions, must have certain knowledge of such a thing and experience. So that's when you go out to the competition that they're asking about hiring within those institutions. When we talk about the system of regulators, even price regulators, when we talk about energy, the Energy Agency has usually been a member of all working groups when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law, especially when it comes to energy, and their task is to make an analysis, a professional analysis when the ministry and public enterprises make a proposal to increase prices. Theirs, in fact, is to give an explanation, not that dry reasoning it says in the company would suit us to increase the price so much, but to find prices in the structure from a professional point of view for as much as the state can raise that price. Of course, the regulator never suggests what the government will not adopt or what the ministry will not propose. So they're all on a joint assignment. So there's no such opportunism, which you're talking about, when we talk about these institutions and about executive institutions like ministries or public enterprises. They're all on a joint assignment. Just as REM should be working together with the Ministry of Culture and Information when it comes to media space. The same as the Securities Commission is on a joint mission when it comes to government bonds of securities of value together with the National Bank is on each draft law. What do I want to tell you? If it hadn't been for SNS and Aleksandra Vucic, who simply completely changed the way in which not only political life functioned, but also the way people who lead and institutions are in charge of the National Assembly and those who are in the power of government and ministries simply didn't realize that we were all on a joint mission to make Serbia better, it wouldn't be today, we wouldn't have had results in these areas. Are they good enough when it comes to REM? I'm sure they didn't. Surely it can be better and safe that we must look together for the path to that better. Here, suggest to the committees responsible what they should do to find this better path for Serbia in certain areas, which is a better way to get a better REM, qualitatively in their work, quantitatively, humanely, and I think the committees in charge will accept your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1192	Thank you. According to the list of registered MPs, Rajka Matovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1193	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, since we are at the end of the year ahead of us are the financial plans of the agencies for the next 2021. The Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media is an independent independent regulatory organisation, but is responsible for the National Assembly. One of the main objectives of regulatory bodies is the protection of public interest. I wonder if the public's interest is the constant placement of lies about the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic? We had the opportunity to see in the previous period how some media in the worst possible way satanized the president, but also his entire family. Is the interest of the public that the portal Nova S daily publishes cartoons and images of the president with a drawn target. They're making an open threat to the president. I remind you that the president of the state is an institution and that this is not only a threat to Alexander Vukic, but also an attack on the institutions. Is it normal for Srdjan Nogo to say that both the president and his family will have a tragic end? Is it normal for the newspaper "Today" to publish a picture on the front page of the president with a gun pointed at him and a target drawn on him, that the president's son connects with one of the most notorious clans in these areas with photo montages? Nothing is normal that is under the conductor's stick of Dragan Gilas, and all these listed media, both N1 and Nova S and the list "Today" and many others are just under the dictatorship of this man. I have another question I have addressed to REM, and it concerns the commercial advertising time, through which Dragan Gilas was rich by 619m euros. This concerns all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because as I said, one of the main objectives of REM is to protect the public's interests. As I come from Belgrade, we all remember very well what Dragan Gilas was mayor and how badly he damaged the Belgrade city budget. We also remember the bridge on Ada that cost over 400m euros, we also remember the underground containers, the Spanish trams, that the children were taken by the Pioneer Park to start the first reality in Serbia. That mockery of Pazl City we all remember very well. We remember that when we took power in Belgrade that the debt and the hole in the capital's budget was over 1.2 billion euros and that at the end of each year city enterprises were given subsidies because they were doing business at a loss. In a few days, we will have a session in the city of Belgrade where we will discuss the budget for the next 2021 and where all these public enterprises that once came from the city budget will have a positive business today. To return to the topic, and these are reports from agencies and financial plans for next year, to say that SNS and Parliament Group Aleksandar Vukic – will vote positively for our children and adopt these acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1194	Thank you. National MP Bratimir Vasiljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1195	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, would for a moment refer to regulatory agencies dealing with regulation and relations in the field of information, in the field of electricity, i.e. Energy. My first request would be in this direction that the committees in charge pay far more attention when they adopt certain proposals and certain reports of these very agencies so that what happens today, that information funds can write what they think of, that there is no responsibility for the spoken word and there is no responsibility for what is nowhere in any means of information should happen, what is happening in the country of Serbia, where the president of the state serves as a target for the shooting. It's not just about Alexander Vukic, it's about the president of a state that has its integrity. So, without any consequence of the means of information, they can compete which will be uglier and which will more call for lynch, murder, hanging and so forth. My request in this direction is that these committees deal much more with it. Not to mention the emissions that are given and how harmful they are to the population, above all for the young population in Serbia's territory, but the committees themselves should seek a solution and a way out of this and make proposals to amend certain laws in order to introduce information as it is today. When it comes to the Energy Agency, more should be looked at, not only by giving prices, but also by giving consent and by proposing electricity prices, it is necessary to focus a lot of attention on citizens as well as how to help them because a large number of people are not in a situation to pay for electricity. There's probably some gaps in the price setting. When it comes to tariffs and tariffs. It's particularly expressed in Nis. Over 5,000 families in the 21st century have no electricity. This is a very serious problem, and so should the Agency, too, to look for a way out to allow these people to have 21st century fluid. I would also refer a little bit to the fight against corruption and crime, as it is one of the six declared objectives that the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia promoted, so let's see what they're doing and what we're doing. It is interesting that during the period until 2012, when Serbia fell asleep and when Serbia's economy was completely destroyed, the practically heartburn from Serbia's economy remained in Serbia, that at that time and at that time many people became enormously rich. I can't agree, I can't understand that such people exist, unfortunately they exist and they are the loudest and they are the most heard and they are most pushed into the chest and they are looking for a shortcut to come to power in Serbia, whether people accept them or vote them or not. They don't care about that. They want to know how to get their hands on the tills and how to get rich again in the way they did in the previous period. It is symptomatic that someone may, in a period when the state of Serbia is completely in the economic sense, completely failing, and many have become overrich that there are almost no such examples in capitalist countries and such a fast, especially so fast-moving. So there's one max, he says -- when the state shuts up about the rich and the fuck up. Well, that happens a lot here, too. What is it that we do? So, since 2012, traces have been visible at every turn that Serbia is going the right way and that Serbia is every day recording the results of what world organisations are acknowledging and dealing with these affairs. I'll look back on what it looked like in the town of Nis. By 2012, it was considered a valley of famine, because simply, almost 40,000 people were out of work, none of the economy worked in Nis. What's it look like today? These are, however, some people who are drilling into the chest and have great regret towards the citizens of Nis, as they are in trouble today compared to what happened by 2012. The situation is completely reversed and completely different. Seven businesses, seven companies are open new in Nis. It doesn't look very different today. It's on its way and the eighth company, which will be, I hope until the new year is in office. If we add that a magnificent facility such as the Clinical Centre, which may be the best in the Balkans, is built in Nis, as a technology park and many facilities have been built. Not to talk about railways, roads, hospitals and what the country of Serbia is doing. Today Nis is completely different and today Nis looks like, slowly taking the outlines of a big city. I hope it will and will be the centre of southeastern Serbia. That's the fundamental difference between us and them. So that's what's visible with the naked eye, the one who wants to see can see changes at every step, the one who won't see them will never see them. In the end. Long live Serbia. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1196	Thank you. Aleksandra Tomic, as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1197	The Honorable President, honourable MPs, and here's to the citizens of Serbia, I may have missed my explanation when it comes to the Energy Agency. She's usually second-degree organs when you observe citizens' rights, when it comes to complaints. They solve complaints and complaints when you have a problem as an EDB user and, let's say, you have problems with certain connections. The first degree of appeal, if you complain to the institution to which you apply for the delivery of the connections, if it is silent or simply rejects you, if it is the EDB, then you have the right to be a citizen, a user of electricity and electricity, to appeal to the Energy Agency and it addresses those issues since the second-degree body is in this process, solves the common issue. In fact, it represents in a certain way and protects the rights of every ESM user and any electricity user to solve their problems. So this agency also has this task, that not only is one of the price regulators and not only participates in the certification of all entrants on the energy market, but also has the task of helping Serbian citizens in certain procedures through complaints and proposals, i.e. cases. The case is being opened, it is being conducted as a kind of administrative procedure, and the procedure is to protect Serbian citizens in the exercise of their rights. So it's very important that we know here, especially when we and as MPs are also receiving citizens with certain problems, that we know where we can guide them when they have a problem in a particular area. For us, this is important from information today, and I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia, to hear this information that there are institutions in which they can appeal in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1198	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1199	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members, I will look to today's agenda item on the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the decision on amendments to the Statute of the Securities Commission. It's the same for agreeing with the issued Stock Exchange Act. This law was passed in the previous assembly meeting, which was primarily important for the work of the New Now Production Stock Exchange, which has existed since 1921, which was the only stock exchange in the SFRY and whose importance has been recognised and supported by the German Development Bank. The Act on the Stock Exchange, which was adopted in the previous assembly mandate, was brought with the direct support of President Aleksandr Vukic, Resorship Ministry and, above all, co-worker Aleksandra Tomic, as chairman of the resolution committee. This is one example of how the government of the Republic of Serbia is working to improve Serbia's economy unlike the previous government, which has done absolutely the opposite. It is therefore also necessary to adopt the proposed decision as soon as possible, in order for the Securities Commission to do whatever is necessary and to adopt certain consent in order to allow this law to be applied. Unlike these objectives, which are essential to creating, strengthening and strengthening Serbia, we had earlier authorities who worked exactly the opposite and whose goal was just to fill their pockets. Since I mentioned the Novi Sad Production Stock Exchange, I will remain in the territory of the Serbian northern province, so I will point out what the previous government had to do with the Vojvodine Development Bank, which was a private bank of DS, where DS officials took loans without any means of security. So they went into the bank, took the money, and left no note, no stock, no mortgage. When the Vojvodine Development Bank went bankrupt in 2013, they discovered the fraudous actions of the DS, initiated court proceedings, and then it came to the fact that Dragan Gilas, who first filled his pockets with money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, took that money, removed it from his pocket and paid off his party colleagues' debts and thus bought out their debts. This relationship had an ex-government towards the economy, according to the banking sector, the former government headed by Djilas and Tadic, unlike this government, this government and President Aleksandar Vukic, who continue to work on creating conditions for a positive economic climate. As for REM, my colleagues talked a lot about it. I don't have a high opinion of REM. I didn't see anything advertised when it came to motor saws in RTS, when Alexander Vukic and his children are daily on anti-Serb televisions, drawing targets, when the National Assembly is called the barn. Here is the latest article that came out today on the anti-Serbian page of one newspaper, "N1" is about, in fact, television -- the Big Assembly barn, this National Assembly, has become a site where comedian spiders, these are MPs, representatives of Serbian citizens, dangerous fools, narrators and unfinished creations of the dam of their creator from the assassination. That's not what REM's reacting to. With these independent media, "N1" and "New S", anti-Serbian media, there is not a shred of independence and can only be described by one sentence – a domestic traitor, a foreign mercenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1200	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1201	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the agenda today, among other things, we have a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2021. When we talk about the media in Serbia, we have to mention those who avoid paying taxes to the state. Here, first of all, I think of Dragana Djilas, Dragan Šolak, Jugoslav Cosic, who owns the United Media Group, which is registered in Luxembourg and which via foreign television channels "N1" and "New S" allegedly replays the programme in Serbia, although it does not broadcast in Luxembourg. For a reason, I think, we ask ourselves, is this in one way a direct foreign influence on political developments in Serbia for the protection of business between Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak? It is indisputable that Gilas and Solak's media are producing a political campaign, primarily according to the president and against President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, because these TVs are presented in public as media, and in fact they are only political opponents of the SNS. It is constantly attacking both the SPC and the Crisis Headquarters and our doctors, because their only policy is – the worse for Serbia, the better for them. It is particularly ugly when you see Dragan Gilas at one point calling on Serbian citizens to break the crisis staff measures, not to listen to the advice of their doctors, and then after a while Dragan Gilas invites the state to carry out as restrictive measures as possible and shows all the hypocrisy of their political action and that they do not care at all about the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the public health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The SBB and the anti-state channels "N1" and "Nova S" in the most direct way possible damage to the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but exclusively damage to those national televisions and media that are properly registered in the Republic of Serbia and who are paying taxes to the country. The old strategy of Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak, is seen through the production of political affairs, false political affairs in those media. Imagine, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how much such a false political affair, for example. costs our dedicated industry and Krusik new contracts, how much such false political affairs cost Telekom Republika Srpska. I would like to remind the citizens that Telekom is on one side owned by the Serbian state, and on the other hand owns as an action society of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So every fake affair in the most direct way damages the country's budget. They are simply frustrated by the political and economic victories Serbia has won from 2012 to 2020. It bothers them when our dedicated industry is doing well and making a profit. It bothers them when Telekom's doing well. It simply bothers them everything that has to do with the success of this country. The new strategy of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak is explored through attempts to discredit all members of the SNS, in order to generate an erosion of citizens' confidence in institutions in the Republic of Serbia. We are all aware that these institutions depend on the participation and trust of citizens. They are bothered by Serbia's political, economic and infrastructure consolidation, and the elections do not want to come out because they are aware that Serbian citizens simply will not. As I see them talking again about election conditions and some separation of elections, it will be that Tanja Fajon has told them again stories about how it can affect how, when and how Serbia will organise elections for the national parliament. Remember what effect Tanja Fajon had in the elections in Sapac, when the elections were repeated until the moment they thought that Tanja Fajon would not be satisfied with the election results, but they received a clear response from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They received a response that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Sapac support the policy conducted by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. And a thousand more times if they had repeated those elections, they would have gotten the same answer. So, I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia to be represented by politics, plan, programme, ideas, not Tanja Fajon and failed politicians from Slovenia. But it seems to be their notion of Serbian sovereignty, that instead of Serbian citizens, the failed politicians coming from Slovenia are wondering. I would not be surprised if, in the coming period, they also called for help from Igor Soltez, former European Parliamentarian, Kardeli's grandson, that his grandson might explain to us how, when and how Serbia will organise elections for the national parliament. I would like to tell them and their friends in Slovenia from this place that the elections in Serbia will be held in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the laws of Serbia and that the electoral will always be respected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by the will of failed politicians from Slovenia. Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and this fake circle of two, the second Serbian elite concentrated in the Belgrade circle of two, simply do not understand the needs of the Serb people. They simply don't understand the struggle for our vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, which I think is one of the most important, certainly most important issue of Serbian politics. If you'll excuse me, I would like to make a brief comparative analysis of how they treated the issue between 2000 and 2012, when they managed this country, and how SNS treated Kosovo and Metohija from 2012 to 2020, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. From 2000 to 2004, they completely destroyed the Serbian economy. From 2000 to 2012 they made disastrous political decisions. I think it is important that we remind the citizens of Serbia of such a thing. As a consequence, in 2004, we had a strong blow to Serbia's spiritual, religious, cultural, historical and identity heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. Unresponsible political factors in the former regime in Belgrade and Serbia have seen this silently for the very reason that Serbia was both an economically and politically already completely destroyed country at the time. In 2006, we had the separation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and they helped Serbs in Montenegro and those who wanted to live on in the common state by paying for a public opinion survey. And today, because of all this, the Serbian people in Montenegro feel the legal consequences and the violence that is being waged against them. In 2008, we had a unilateral declaration of Kosovo and Metohija independence by temporary institutions in Pristina. We had a president of the state, Boris Tadic, who then fled to Romania and was not in Serbia to share fate with his people at a time when it was difficult for that people. In 2008, we had some sort of National Investment Plan for Dragan Gilas, after which half a million people were out of work in Serbia by 2012. In 2010, we have the insidious issue of Vuk Jeremic in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, although they were aware that most judges of the court's council were just the judges who came from countries that recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Then we have the arrival of the Eulex mission instead of the UNMIK mission in Kosovo and Metohija, we have the establishment of borders between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak, and we have, worst of all, the removal of the UN's focus of negotiations on the European Union, making it clear that they have tried to pave the path of Kosovo-metohic independence and, therefore, today and today, in the Pristina political press of fame and thank them. After 2012, we have a strong political shift regarding the most important issue of Serbian politics, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, and we have concrete results. Eighteen member states of the United Nations, thanks to the skillful diplomatic skills of President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, have decided to withdraw the decision to recognise the false state. The false state has failed to enter 11 international institutions, including the most important ones – Interpol, UNESCO and the World Customs Organisation. We managed to bring an American development corporation to Belgrade and thus invest in our infrastructure, which means opening new jobs. We managed to act as a mini-schegen initiative, which will make the Serbian economy ten times stronger in the coming period compared to all economies in the region. We have succeeded in what is most important, which is to protect and preserve the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija, so that no one ever thinks of saying that Novo Brdo, the Pećka Patriarchy, the Virgin Mary Ljeviška, the Archangels and the Decani part of someone else's cultural heritage is just what it is, which is part of Serbia's cultural, religious, spiritual and historical heritage. If Dragan Gilas knew anything about politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, he would advertise in his media in a serious way on the matter. And they cannot learn any lessons from all this, but in 2019 they have come forward with a declaration of reconciliation between Serbs and Albanians and the declaration includes a part that implies a common history of Serbs and Albanians and a common cultural heritage. The declaration they brought in 2019 reminds me of the need to establish a stronger link between the tycoon in Belgrade and terrorists in Pristina, just as it existed between 2000 and 2012. If they knew anything about it, they would say something smart on their media regarding the protection of Serbia's vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. But no, they are only talking about the criminalisation of Alexander Vukic and his family and they want to form a suitable atmosphere to come up with what Chaba Der told Hungarian investigative authorities about and that one of the criminal circles in the region is physically removing Vukic because it is a distraction, because it is a distraction for them to lead to a colored revolution, to cause violence on the streets of Serbia and thus to come to power, because elections cannot do so because the people will not, and to do everything they did between 2000 and 2012, when the state budget of the Republic of Serbia and when only one tycoon politician managed to steal more than 619m euros in money from the citizens of Serbia. Imagine where everyone else was gathered, when only one tycoon politician managed to steal 619m euros, where all those who participated in robbery privatisations were. That is why it is important for Serbian citizens to know what anti-state elements and thieves we are dealing with. It is clear that Dragan Gilas never considered important national issues, Kosovo and Metohija, but how to provide his brother with more than 30 properties in Belgrade's elite locations, worth more than 5.5m euros. And the fact that Albanians in 2008 declared unilaterally, as temporary institutions in Pristina, Kosovo's independence, that was none of their business, nor did Borko Stefanovic, who went to the US Embassy in 2007 to beg that the decision be extended for 2008, so that Boris Tadic would become president of the Republic of Serbia. It's clearly in WikiLeaks. To finally just get back to the essence of today's agenda. I think it is important that the legal framework is respected and that all televisions pay REM broadcasting fees, not that there is still the possibility that Dragan Djilas, Solak and Cosic are illegally managing and simulating cross-border channels, although the programme of products from Serbia. Imagine, respected citizens of Serbia, that all televisions are being registered in Luxembourg. So who would pay taxes in this country? The point is that N1 and Nova S televisions represent an anti-state structure that Serbian citizens and whose story Serbian citizens do not want to swallow, not for no reason, but because they believe in SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policies. Because we are going towards establishing an even better economic atmosphere, to strengthen our economy and to protect our national and vital interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Because they believe that together we can raise the scale of Serbia's success to the highest possible level and achieve everything we have drawn and what we have foreseen for them through the "Serbia 2025" Investment Plan, which is a comprehensive development of Serbia and that in 2025, the average salary is 900 euros, and the average pension of 440 euros, and that we provide Serbian citizens with what they really deserve, which is a better standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1202	Thanks, buddy. National MP Ivana Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I want to say a few words that are theoretically related to the 1st point of the agenda, which was said more yesterday, but which are always current, which are important. They are important for the institutions we are talking about today, but above all for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to point out that the fight against corruption began by winning the SNS in 2012. We will remember that immediately after the victory, one of the largest tycoons in Serbia was arrested. From 2012 to today, we have passed a series of laws that affect the fight against corruption to be more effective. Not long ago, we also adopted the Law on the Origin of Assets here in the previous term, where 75% of the assets that have not been reported, which is illegal or cannot be determined by origin. It will soon come into force, so it will apply to all the valid ones, both tycoons and politicians and newly created rich people. Everyone will have to explain the origin of their property and no one will be able to hide behind members of their family or behind friends from the shadows. In line with this, competent institutions, competent prosecutors, competent regulatory bodies, now that we have more and more elements from day to day, it will take all working groups to carry out procedures and to examine situations that are well known to everyone, to examine and origin property, to start Dragan Gilas and his newly known brother Gok, who has a lengthy list of immovableities and assets. It's important that we talk about it every day. We wonder if an average citizen of the Republic of Serbia can even imagine how much money it is? We have been talking about this for days and months, people know that it is worth 619m euros. That's what we're tied up to right now, and we're talking about what's recognizable now, which has been spotted, and we're just waiting for him to come out with concrete evidence. But as a colleague who spoke before me said, how much space still exists for which we still don't have reliable information, but we believe that the competent institutions will do their job and will soon come out with it. For example, for 619m euros, we currently have, for comparison, for Serbian citizens to know, the construction of a fast traffic station in Ruma-Sabac-Loznica, a part of Ruma-Samac, a bridge across the Sava in Sapac. The Shabac-Loznica stock is 80km long and the value of the investment is 467m euros. So, 80 km, the value of the investment is 467m euros. On the other hand, we talked about it yesterday, we have the Gilas Bridge on Ada, whose estimated value was 124.5m euros. When we add the value of the works on the project of building a fast traffic station Ruma-Shabac-Loznica and the estimated value of this bridge, it's again below that 619 million. In fact, something different happened in reality. The opportunity has been used, and Dragan Gilas has defined 500m euros for the bridge according to his budgets. Since we also have an act on the agenda today relating to REM's work, it is now important to point out that in the previous term we changed the laws, or we adopted certain standards that the opposition couldn't even imagine for itself and we said, in short, in addition to the other things, we had an election threshold from 5% to 3%, we had the establishment of a assembly committee that oversees the conduct of the elections and we chose three plus two, or five members of the REM Council. When representatives of the opposition were then called for public listening, for dialogue, they did not advertise. First they said it wasn't a good situation in the country, what pre-election conditions were, and then, when they were invited to comment on it, to participate in it, no one was there. Then they ran a campaign under the cloak of some kind of boycott. Approximately, the word "boycott", as they presented it, which applies to them, does not apply to most of Serbia. We're getting to the next situation. In the REM report, in the section concerning the analysis of the previous election campaign, on the media run by Gilas, Solak and their allies we have the following parameters and data. In the election campaign, for God's sakes, we have a major boycott: on N1 television, the Alliance for Serbia's representation 20.5%, and the complete list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" 5.5%. We have daily information emissions, representation on N1 – Alliance for Serbia 28.3%, "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" 7%, four times less. Next we have a central information show, 16.4%, “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children” again four times less, 4%. And so those who do not go to the elections, who do not recognise election processes, do not respect the laws in Serbia, which call for a boycott, have four times more time in those media, those who barely get 2% of the support in Serbia, unlike Alexander Vukic, who is supported by over two million Serbian citizens and the list "Alexander Vukic – For our children", which has 60% of the support. In addition, these haters of Serbia continue to say that there is persecution here, that dictatorship, that there is media darkness here, that there is no freedom of the media. Here, this morning we heard from colleague Aleksandra Tomic and today from colleagues that the behaviour of those media that are not registered here and that do not meet any obligations towards the Republic of Serbia, and on these media what is being placed. It has been staged, especially in the last few days, on these media, we have the most disturbing and unsettling accusations and insults and the most monstrous insults against President Alexander Vukic and his family, last week we had a painful statement from former MP Srdjan Nog talking about the tragic end of the President of the Republic and his family. This is no longer about the party, about the one party program, about the SNS, this is an absolute anti-state behavior. This comes from former regime members, who have brought Serbia to the brink of economic disaster, have robbed the state both irresponsiblely and incompetently of the budget, i.e. the money of Serbian citizens. None of them, because of their intense hatred for President Alexander Vukic, will admit that our infrastructure has improved, that our unemployment at the historic minimum, that our salaries and pensions are constantly growing. Whatever SNS does, they are against it, not taking care of it, that is, they don't care how good it is for Serbia at all. We are making laws here and creating an ambience that both competent institutions and regulatory bodies are doing their job as best they can, because just one of the first objectives in the SNS programme is to care for every citizen. That's what President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are being run. So we take care and care of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and our institutions, and it is from this home that we protect them and represent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1204	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1205	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a proposal for a decision to give consent, a series of proposals for decisions, and I will focus on the seventh item of the agenda, which refers to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, specifically for 2021. The financial plan makes it clear that the total planned income is just over 300 million dinars. Listing and analysing this financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, I came up with one piece of information, that estimated revenues for TV programmes for 2020 are about 250 million dinars, that radio programmes are projected around 20 million and cable programs of 30 million dinars. And now imagine, please, and here I am asking the citizens of Serbia, here I am asking REM and other competent institutions, what kind of money would REM have if everyone in Serbia had an obligation to pay REM fees? In doing so, I think of a cable operator who has over 900,000 users, the SBB and who is owned by United Media, who is also once again owned by the United Group, which is registered in Luxembourg and owned by Dragan Šolak and Dragan Gilas. Well, I doubt that both Dragan and the other Dragan will give up their incomes and cut their budget so that they may pay taxes or pay certain fees in Serbia, not only REM but other regulatory bodies in Serbia. When we talk about this, about showing what is broadcast on N1, Nova S and other School channels, and under Gilas' programme scheme, you will see that there is absolutely no material and programme concerning the people and citizens of Luxembourg, but exclusively a political and informative programme relating to socio-political developments in Serbia. Well, I'm asking if anyone might have ever seen on N1 last year when elections were held for MEPs, more specifically six, if I remember correctly, if anyone saw their political programme, marketing and so on. No, it's not, but we've all been here and we've seen what they've been doing in the past few months, and what my colleagues have talked about before me, how many times they've been repeating boycott ads, mixing ourselves with this, so we're talking about cross-border channels, foreign television, interfering with our country's socio-political life, and they're calling for a European convention on cross-border television, which you can imagine is ratified in the 2009 Assembly, as if he knew Gilas would at one point be able to deal with what we're dealing with, and we're talking about pumping money out of Serbia, we're talking here about tax evasion, we're talking here about a variety of malversions here, and I'm asking REM and other competent institutions in Serbia -- how and in which way these cross-border televisions, which we're supposed to be in this convention, which we don't really re talking about citizens here, and we't really talking about how we't really talking about Serbian, and we're talking about how we're talking about how we're talking about how we're talking about Serbian, and we're talking about how we're really, we're talking about how we're talking about how we're really, we're really, but we're talking about doing, we're really going to say, but we're talking about how we're going to be talking about Serbian, we're talking about making ourselves, but we're talking about making ourselves, but we're not really going to be really going to be really going to be talking about, but we're really, but we're really going, but we're talking about, but we're talking about, but we're talking about, so we're talking about it're talking, we', so we', so we're talking about, and we're talking, we're talking about, so we', we're talking, so we're talking about, and we', we're talking about, we're talking about, we', we're talking about, we', we', we', we', we', we're talking about, so we', we', we', we', we', In particular, I mean the Law on Advertising and the Law on Electronic Media, the first member of the 35th that doesn't respect, and the second one is a member of 100. And when we talk about not paying any fees not only for REM, but also for RATEL, SOKOJ and other agencies dealing with copyright protection in Serbia, and about tax evasion and not paying Serbia that we don't even speak, taxes for what they do do do do do do do not pay Serbia, and when you know that they don't broadcast in Luxembourg, they certainly don't pay that tax there either, and then we get to that famous mantra, that the media in Serbia are not free. As one of my colleagues once said -- the media in Serbia are so free that they don't even have to register here, and so these unregistered media become slowly unregistered political parties and their political activists, and while I think of journalists N1 and Novi S, they do a great job, they can even overshadow all of the former regimes, do nothing, if they are already dealing with a political information programme, do nothing about informing the public of Serbia, because I haven't heard of Gok Gilas until a few days ago. I didn't even know that Dragan Gilas has a brother named Gojko Gilas, who owns so many properties that it's fragrant. I have here a tweet of Dragan Gilas a few days ago, actually November 27th. He says you're lying about my brother now and coming to his door. (Alexander Martinovic: Which door, because there are 35?) That's right. That's the real question. First of all, I think that since it's the habit of Dragan Gilas lying, no one started that sizif business, that he was looking for Gok Gilas for 34, 35 properties and knocking door to door to find him. There's no mention of that anywhere in either N1, or Nova S, or Gilas's printed and electronic media, anywhere. But to form an atmosphere of chaos, the atmosphere of the lynch, to talk about, someone said today, the assassination of President Vukic, so we've been present for the last few years. When you look at the front page of the NIN and you look at the front page of today and you look at these cartoonists who think it's funny, and it's probably just funny, where the targets are drawn on Alexander Vukic's body, calling on some of the political underworld to start the process and call for the liquidation of President Vukic, it's just that my colleague Milenko Jovanovic said something in his address that should be repeated, that there is no policy of murder without a political background. Ladies and gentlemen, you have and you are present today and you are witnessing all that you have an atmosphere that is otherwise presented on the canals of Nova S and N1, where you are calling for the murder of the president, you have that killer Chabu Dera, who told the Hungarian investigative authorities that they offered him compensation, an offer to assassinate the president. I don't know what else has to happen so that we all here are finally aware that on N1 and Nova S we've shown not only an anti-state program, not just a program that refers to everything President Alexander Vukic does that's wrong, because I haven't seen anywhere on these channels that in the last few years we've managed to build 350km of highway, I haven't seen anywhere to say that we've managed to reduce unemployment to 7%, I haven't seen anywhere that we've been able to build what many have dreamed and what may have really been for all of us in 2014 was just a dream, that the average salary is raised to 500 euros, and today it's far greater and that we're able to have enough money in the budget to build these ho hospitals and that we're the only in Europe that we're going to do it, and that it's not enough to ask how it's possible that someone on these channels of the anti-state, where it's perfied, the budget campaign against the state, the state, the state, the way that we's going to see ourselves, because we're going to look at the back, because we's going to see the press, because we're going to look at the people and we're going to look at the head. That bid takes time, probably until someone gives the highest bid with how many bullets to become probably the leader of the opposition. Just to tell you, it will never happen and not only that, the people of Serbia do not trust that Dragan Djilas, or that Dragan Šolak, who are exclusively and only important to get rich, that they can buy planes, trucks and that Olja Bećković, Ivan Ivanovic and Kesic are sending probably every weekend to Luxembourg to record a show. They don't believe what they're presenting, what they're talking about, and in that sense, as far as that trust is concerned, be careful now, the other day, the United Group complained to the EU about the pressure it was under in Serbia. Oh, come on! They say in the letter of appeal, which they delivered to the EU competition authorities, that, accusing, of course, the Serbian state of the harassment campaign that damages media competition. Oh, yeah? They talk about media competition, which completely destroyed all the broadcasters in Serbia by working on price dumping for all commercials that show up on their televisions, because we're talking about them dropping advertising prices to make them more competitive, taxes don't pay anywhere, and money flows into pockets and one and the other Dragan and they're satisfied here? In the follow-up to that letter, there was one part that I liked very much. Says the United Group provides services to Serbia. Thank you! Don't provide any more services to Serbia, you don't have to! The services you provide to Serbia do not need. I'm going to end up being a little under-experienced, especially in this business of School and Gilas, to advise them to meet with Tanya Fajon and to write together a letter of appeal to Santa Claus in the spirit of New Year's holidays, because I don't think they've heard how many liars that is yet in Lapland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1206	Thanks, buddy. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I set a break of one hour. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to this list I have here, the next MP is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1208	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, here for two days we have been able to discuss the reports of different financial regulators, the Fiscal Council in the field of capital markets, in the field of combating and combating corruption or preventing corruption in our institutions by public officials, so here we are to this day to regulators in the field of energy and media. We've had practice here for many years to analyze the reports of these regulators every year, to consider both on the Finance Committee and here at the tide of their plans to finance everything that is their activity. However, the question arises whether all these many regulators are achieving that basic goal in terms of the arrangements of those areas for which they are in charge? Or is it the question of whether they are their own goal, given that the results we expect from them, not all of them, but here, I will base myself on, say, REM or the Anti-Corruption Agency, to see what these are real results, or is the result of the overall work that we consider certain reports here and adopt it and provide them with a budget for it? This must not be the point, and they must not bring their existence down to obtain support here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in which they certainly have institutional and any other support, they are expected to achieve the goal. And in that sense, here, I will refer only in my speech to REM and here I will read one of their responsibilities. This is jurisdiction under regular number 17 and says REM is doing research into the needs of media service users and protects their interests. If we look at the media scene of the Republic of Serbia and call the media that everyone mentioned today, it is primarily N1 television, "New S", different other portals that contaminating the public scene of the Republic of Serbia, we cannot say in any case that anyone in this case cares about the interest of media service users, but that it is allowed for these contents to be contaminated in continuity. What I'm trying to say and what's very important is, what's the consequence of all this and what, by not removing these causes, we've got? We have received a realistic policy on these media, a reality policy, a reality of emissions, a reality of press conference in front of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in which it should be content and rapper as certain institutions operate. What else did we get? We have received and there is a responsibility of REM, a real protest, a false picture of the public of the Republic of Serbia reacting to pandemic measures in order to prevent the spread of the infection, so we have here live broadcasts 24 hours and preparations and protests of the violent themselves, where this institution has been tried not only physically to offend, but it has happened and we have all witnessed it. We know that there is a television on the direct stick of Dragan Gilas and his other financial cooperatives and those who carry out through him there, let me say, politics and these interests. We've seen what it looks like. We saw how they would manage Serbia. We've seen how those few days after the election want to take over. They had support in the boycott of these media, they had the support that they had here by violent means of trying to make a story that implies that they enter here into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that they get applause in such a contaminated scene from all those who are escorts of these media services, confusing everyone else who may be trying to look at it from different angles, to find out what's true. But journalists, editors who created the news, created an atmosphere of lynches in Serbia, created an atmosphere in which a brother, a Serb Serb, needs a citizen to strike here. What were the final scenes of those contributions after midnight? There were scenes of police reaction, the MUP when it couldn't react anymore. There were no scenes they sent all over the world, damaged the Republic of Serbia, tried to create a fake picture of how to make the programme a fake picture of what most in Serbia represent, what the true voice of the people, what the real "vox popul" and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said in the elections were. So what's important to point out in this kind of story, how did we come by that? What are the causes of this, and there's a role in REM somewhere that didn't do her job in continuity? Dragan Gilas has created all this ambience in the Republic of Serbia. How? Dragan Gilas is "The Great Brother" of all financial embezzlements in the Republic of Serbia. By the way, he also brought the "Great Brother" to Serbia first to earn extra profits, to earn strong money, and to contaminated the media scene of the Republic of Serbia. Now he's reportedly rebelling against such content. How'd he do that? He created legislation. First, he occupied all the media, put in his pocket REM, not just the media space, but he put the advertising space under him as well. He made extra profits through this 619 million-dollar traffic we're talking about. So we're not making it up. We're talking about the consequences that happened. What's the cause? The causes are then the power that created such a possibility both legislative and sublegal and pressure that they worked towards all other institutions. What can he do today? Today he can do it through the SBB, through that cable operator, through those two cable channels, and thus try to continue the continuity of everything he did before he left power and in the public media. That's why he's nervous, and that's why this isn't enough for him today. What to say about all this may well confirm his press conference that he held the other day, to which no one has responded. I'm going to take a newspaper called "Informer", which cited several examples of which here and REM did not respond. Mr. Gilas threatened the press at the press conference, threatened the press, and in this mania of lawsuits, lawsuits, criminal charges, slanders, anything else, we can't call it anything but a mania, every day sues someone, and I'm going to confirm this thesis. He decided this time to sue, imagine journalists and central diary leaders. In this case, he announced a lawsuit against Ms. Bojana Liliæ Odjavić, who runs the National Log on Pink TV and no one has responded. Then it's normal when Dragan Gilas does it and gets more of these media support and nobody's going to say anything, of course, in those media, and they're going to try to create a fake picture here from this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we're talking about, and I don't know what. Who's contaminating the public scene? Who's attacking the press? Who says they'll sue those who, imagine, read the news, those who got to read on that show, the heads of the National Journal? So that I don't talk about it any further, I'm just going to point out how I look at the reasons why Mr. Gilas is nervous. The first is the one I have already cited, which is nervous because it can no longer edit an information programme in all media like it did by 2012 or in Belgrade there until October 2013. Now only the SBB can do that and we can watch him do it. Another nervousness and basic nervousness precisely because of what we could see these days, and that is what its total property is and how through the connected faces it tries to wash off these assets and money by buying different properties, buying different companies and nervousness is increasing. Why does anxiety increase when you mention his brother Gok, who is 29, 35, or doesn't matter how much real estate? Well, for a simple reason, because here he knows that what we all know, and thank God, this congregation council, that is, we adopted it in the last term, but under the SNS' patronage by fulfilling our pre-election promises, we passed the Law on the designation of origin of property and, in particular, taxes. The law has entered into force, but its application will take place, if I've calculated correctly, about 6 or 7 March of the following year. What does that mean? Well, that means it's coming to the agenda not only Dragan Gilas, but all the other connected faces, and his brother and everyone's other brother, that we don't especially highlight his brother in this kind of story, but why not him, because that difference that's limited to 150,000 euros here will be determined. How did you report a certain asset, and you had so many incomes? How will he justify this difference in this case, how will Dragan Gilas justify that role where he was mayor of Belgrade, I don't know how much his salary was, I guess it's not more than 1,500 euros a month, because they're not high wages, how can he justify plus, of course, all these preconditions have created that through his phantom companies and all the others in which he derived extra profits justify this number of properties and how will it justify his family members and all other companies? There's anxiety. That's why you're nervous. When we talk about regulators here then, I'm going to say the example that we had yesterday, which the Anti-Corruption Agency may have explained in one small part, all the causes of the problem, but also the consequences that we can see, we can look at regulatory reports here, but what is their power to do without co-operation with the judiciary, without an effective judiciary. Here, I'll just read one example. Yesterday we had a discussion about it. He says - The Administrative Court delivered 37 decisions, 35 verdicts and two solutions to the Committee in 2019. 29 lawsuits have been dropped, six lawsuits have been brought, one lawsuit brought by the administrative court's resolution has been suspended due to the prosecutor's resignation, while one lawsuit has been dropped as disorderly. No court practice, no prosecution practice where high corruption, corruption in white gloves is punishable and gives an example to everyone else that they can't do it anymore. The first example again of this systemic corruption and that it did not correspond exactly to Dragan Gilas, who, with such a judiciary and with such prosecutors, in which it is crucial jurisdiction and responsibility to process both what and the regulator and the controllers, tomorrow and the Tax Administration directs in that direction which implies that someone committed the crime and that you have a discrepancy between income and property. So I personally expect that this kind of contamination on the public scene, on the media scene, on these cable operators, on their channels, as the March moon arrives, will become stronger and stronger. Of course we are aware of the fact that this is not about real estate in Belgrade, property in Belgrade, financial transactions that are only within Serbia. I know for a fact that it was done in the region as well. I know that Dragan Gilas has taken over his companies and his daughter to Telekom Republika Srpska M:tl Republika Srpska. Systemically, he walked through the same pattern as he was working here in the Republic of Serbia, and everyone will ask, and he will defend himself and say, so I did not answer. He knows me besides what we can do here today at the National Assembly. Can we do it? What other than giving me the support of the Ministry of Interior, Minister, to submit a report on the criminal offence committed for evidence of systemic economic crime and corruption can we do without a prosecutor? In this legislation and with such prosecutors who are not prepared to deal with this monster today, the fight against crime and corruption of the system, there's nothing we can do. We are powerless in this regard and responsibility cannot be at political parties, in power. The responsibility in that chain that comes down to a number of things that are extremely important here, which is the chain, in this case the Agency, the Tax Administration, the police, the prosecution, all falls because the prosecutor makes a decision about not conducting an investigation or blocking the investigation in such a way that he will not execute it within the legal time limit, does not carry out certain actions, investigations, prosecutors at the time when it is necessary to do so, but does so precisely in such a way that those who are the perpetrators of certain criminal acts are put into that position so that they can obtain liberating judgments or make such judicial decisions as can be easily brought down in any court. We've had practice about all this, and that's why it's clear why we're in this position today, but it's clear what's coming. All of this we can see is that in those media that contaminate the public scene, but what can't we see? We cannot see, for example, because we have a regulator in the field of energy today, that the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska signed such an important agreement on 13 November this year, in which Serbia will invest more than 520 million in the new hydroHES Gornja Drina energy company. HES Gornja Drina should cover the construction of three new hydropower plants, Buk White, Foč hydropower plant and another hydro power plant that is historic, to say, an important thing not only in the space of the Republic of Serbia, but also in Republika Srpska, given that Republika Srpska has the authority to sign such things, and that is exactly what we started to say earlier. They will contaminate the public and political scene in the Republic of Serbia more and more, and we will continue to fight with investments here, we will fight with the creation of new jobs, with ways to increase revenues in the budget and how all children's future, all children in Serbia, and normal Serbia, but also Serbia that will develop and in which individuals like this, individuals like Dragan Gilas, will never represent the future. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1209	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1210	Dear chairman, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate Serbia's Film Centre on its great success. Namely, our film "Dara from Jasenovac" that deals with crimes against Serbs in the notorious camp has been nominated for the Oscar for the Golden Globe and will finally get its screened form for the Serbs, presented itself to the public. Let me get back to the subject. Dear colleagues, it is important to point out that this power is a democratic authority that supports the war of all independent regulatory bodies and it accordingly is permanently working to constantly create better and better conditions so that they can carry out their activities uninterrupted. We support, to point out, the Committee on Charters of Value to do everything in order to develop the securities market in accordance with our country's economic objectives. As far as the Energy Agency is concerned, we note that this is one of the most important strategic sectors, that it is important that we work together in this field of energy security and independence, that we diversify energy supply and that for the last five years we have invested significant amounts of money in energy potentials, renewable energy sources, gas storage and electricity supply capacity. What I'm going to look at now, it's about REM and theirs, so to speak, very weak criminal policies for spoken words in public media space. We are witnessing these days that as soon as some new embezzlements of citizens, i.e. citizens' money, some abuses from the SP party, Dragan Gilas and his loyal listeners are detected, there is immediately confusion. There is a gourmet and a corps is created that makes up a variety of individual media, which make up members of the mafia of certain centres of power in the country and abroad. These attacks, which they immediately begin to direct to the state, resemble those medieval attacks when the army is devoting thousands and thousands of arrows, not choosing which target to hit, because their only goal is to prevent the progress and progress of Serbia and the Serb people in all fields, in the economy, in health care, in investments and in all other things. Although the respected Mr. Dragan Gilas during the former government, along with his listeners, tried not to do exactly the household water, or not to say the harsh word - destroys as long as they were in power, he is also now trying to do as he struggles to regain power. It's like he had a little bit of that period he was having. For this purpose, coming to power does not hesitate to use individual satellites, such as that of a certain Dr. Radet Panic, who gives faceless lies by attacking members of the Crisis Staff, attacking the president of the state, attacking his colleagues, among other things, who are working hard to save every life of our citizens. And by saying that the health system is collapsing, that in Serbia is a catastrophic script of biblical proportions, in the same way, the same demagogy, the same directing and acting as his ideological leader, after he was cried out in front of the window by his "Dear Thieves", the colleagues said: "Enable your cell phone to record me", started crying, and then dragged into the whole story even his children, which, by the way, none of us in the ruling coalition ever mentioned. Now, I'm going to ask the general public, does anyone know what they call the children of the gentleman mentioned? Of course they don't. Do they know the name of Alexander Wolfie's children? Of course you do, because every day in the most brutal way, they call them names and last names by saying the most disgusting things that are unclear to common sense. Respected, frightened and gentle opposition, that doesn't occur to you to condemn. Are the children of Alexander the Wolf or ours or anyone else less valuable than ours? Shame on you, Dr. Panic, to be proud to use, for political purposes, certain accidents that occur, using them as political pamphlets to help your friends to come to power. You are ashamed of anything demeaning the knighted efforts of your colleagues who fight daily for the health of these citizens. We're all aware it's not great, it's a big fight, but nowhere is great, not in the most developed countries of the world. Even if that chaos is as you wish and as you said it was in Serbia, well, I suppose you should be standing by your side with your colleagues and saving the lives of our citizens, not crying here on TV with an anti-state campaign that is breaking down with common sense, constantly calling for sincere desire and concern for the people, and essential is the desire and concern exclusively for coming to power, for continuing your wealth. While you've been attacking this government for a moment, no one to condemn you, or at least to see things realistically, and to condemn Mr. Gilas, Mr. Sollac and the like, to ask them how they are, how and how much did they get that huge sum of money? Various machinations and combinations, with the most expensive and inefficient bridge on Ada, then different bus-plus systems, and different underground containers. Not to mention the seconds, minutes and hours that they regularly manipulated in the media area that they controlled. Then why didn't those well-intentioned Serbian patriots Gilas and Solak separate at least one part of their wealth and leave it to this people? I'm sure we could build another 50 hospitals and I don't know how many respirators we can get. Well, and this famous Gojko, often mentioned recently, that one thousand euros has been allocated every time he buys one apartment, could also be bought somewhere tens and more respirators to save this people. Not to say that because of the senseless abuse of public money, which has a causal connection to what I have previously stated, this government found a catastrophic situation in 2014 in all elements of the state system and so on in health care. But if we hadn't wisely led state policy and the proper location of resources invested in every segment in order to lift it out of ruin in this country, surely now, dear Mr. Panic, would have achieved this apocalyptic scenario that you hope so much for. Surely it will not come true, because we have managed to restore more than 80 homes of health and health care, to build a Clinical Centre in Nis, to begin the renovation of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, which will be almost 2021 and will be one of the most modern and best in this part of Europe. We started building, and in record time, we're gonna build two new coves of hospitals. As long as we were doing it, while we were scrambling, you and your contemporaries, the ideologists were all over Bled, and I don't know where else we built hotels, golf clubs, and from there, constantly attacking this power that was struggling to get out of this and out of all the other crises. That horror and horror that this Dr Panic and his likes are constantly calling out to him and presenting with their tears and desires for the good of their people are nothing but a farce, gentlemen, because they are only important to themselves. That's why I called you so-called at first. Doctor, because you don't have much of a doctor's ethics, and you don't have much of a human being. The listeners of the SP party and Mr. Gilas, wanting to bring as much unrest as possible to our society as possible, to permanently such untrueness, not to tell lies, which we are, for example. saw on Sunday's "The Imprint of the Week", a famous show, when a certain Mr. Branko Cechen, CINS director, said without any shame that Aleksandar Vukic opened up a non-existent hospital. How is it that all of you who were in the studio together are not ashamed that you didn't interrupt him in making such a grotesque lie, gentlemen? We didn’t expect it, especially in one show that often starts with the attitude of the host – we are all aware that nothing is wrong in this country. Well, who's aware, dear Mrs. Beckovic? You? Are you the psychic Zorka? Why don't you tell the IMF if he's aware when he says we have 1% of the lowest GDP decline in Europe? Why don't you tell our people that Belgrade is on the water model or about those roads, almost 400km that drive every day, that they're imaginary roads, virtually from some game? Why don't you tell our friends from abroad every once in a while when they open up for some factory, that this is an insecure and insecure area for the placement of their capital. I'm sure you won't say that, but you will continue to use Goebbels' propaganda methods by claiming that a thousand times the lie has become true, to convince the citizens of Serbia that they were wrong when they gave us huge trust in the elections. I understand that you're paid to humiliate your own country and your own people in every sense and in all fields, but if you're always judging someone who doesn't have a similar opinion or the same opinion as you do, be at least fundamentally polite that when someone tells such a grotesque lie on your show, at least you end it if you don't want to convict him. And when Dragan Gilasa is called by someone, don't give God to a thief, then it's a scandal, then it's an invitation to a lynch opposition, then it's the autocracy of this government, and then it's automatically putting on seventeen impressions of a week, a proposal for impressions of God's safety or anything else. What happens when a hit man confirms that members of two clans who have been exterminating each other for years find one common denominator and both clans give money, wouldn't the president of the state be deprived of his life? That's not an impression for you, is it? Or what you may not put on the impression of a week by Professor Turajlic, who claims to be an entirely unaccommodated, street-based, so to speak, a dictionary who calls for destruction, for Satanization. The masterpiece by Alexander Rukavisnikov, who made the founder of the Serbian state. Why don't you make an impression, and let's see what the people say? What's the percentage that won't like it, which is the percentage that our people will like. Either when you put it on, or it's not an impression, and you're not going to put it when that life form, I can't call anyone else who wants the death of a child, any of Srdjan Nog, who comes and says that Alexander Vukic and his entire family should deserve the greatest death. That's not an impression, is it? If it wasn't tragic, it would be ridiculous. Let me get this over with. I appeal to everyone. Don't use human misfortune in these difficult moments to make cheap political points. It's neither chivalrous nor human nor Christian. You've taken so much of all the money together from this people over the past period that you have for 12 of your lives and you and your loved ones. Play with those real estates, planes, trucks you took. Betray them, paint them, renovate them. Let responsible people fight for this people's well-being on the internal and external political agenda. You've had your chance, you've been in power, you've shown what you know. Surely the citizens of Serbia have recognized your qualities, so I think that in the next election, probably even your closest relatives will not vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1211	Thank you. Next is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1212	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. Here, today we're talking about these energy agencies, we're talking about REM. I'll take a closer look at this part of the Energy Agency since we just heard how my predecessors used to say it, Professor. Tomic spoke more about it, something was said by my fellow MP to me and my neighbour from the Pantelej municipality, Bratimir Vasiljevic. We are witnessing that as far as the Energy Agency is concerned, its responsibilities have just been said, where there are a number of responsibilities. One of them is related to the EPS. Otherwise, we who come from these small communities, as I come from Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, that part of southeastern Serbia, and also part of Nis. We have a lot of problems specifically related to a low-voltage network that has run out where there must be more investment, where we must at all times ensure that this man who lives in a village in Srlig or a village in Bela Palanca or a village in the territory of the Panteleus municipality, that this man has the same voltage as the one in the larger centers. And that man is important to all of us. That's why I'm going to call on the Agency here to help such municipalities through the EPS programme to provide higher resources for reconstructions there, restore that low voltage network and put trafos there, where each man will have the same voltage. When I used to say that, it happens when we farmers include some mill hammerer there to do, to grind something for cattle, then the electricity goes out in my household and somebody else. That's why it's very important to put an accent on it, to do a lot more work, to boost the low-voltage network, to ensure that every man's current is the same and that all these people, I can say, must have paid regularly, regularly reconciled their obligations, to ensure that these people can live normally. One of the important things is that, it happens even now that this difficult situation with the pandemic, when there are many of our fellow citizens who, due to some debts from the EPS, are cut off by electricity and to join the network, are asked for a useful and building permit for an object that has been built, perhaps back 30, 40 or 50 years. The agency that we're talking about now is doing what its jurisdiction is, but it would be good to suggest that people who are EPS make it easier for people tomorrow when it happens that someone can't pay for electricity or some real problems can't pay for it, and it's excluded, that that man is making it easier for him to settle his obligation and connect his electricity and not ask for a building permit, if the house has been built much earlier, and we all know that in our villages there are a large number of people who have stayed there and haven't transferred their ownership, their houses, so maybe it's led to one of them earlier and most people don't have a building permit in our villages. It's my appeal to the Agency and the EPS to facilitate the possibility of joining electrical energy. Finally, now this pandemic has shown really that it is necessary to put a much larger accent on our rural holdings, on agriculture, because a large number of our fellow citizens, our relatives, friends come to these villages, wants to join the electricity, but they still come into a situation that they can't do because of these things that I just said. It's this building permit, a useful permit for objects where someone might have lived, and maybe someone didn't live backwards for a certain period of time. The worst thing is when you get into a situation like that. We have a way and there is an opportunity for certain people who are socially at risk and are making it easier for them to pay for electricity. It's a big deal and Professor Tomic just spoke about it. I will insist more on this in the next period and I will ask both the competent agency and the EPS to provide as much a low voltage network as possible, a special accent on south-east Serbia, our areas and these small environments, the municipalities from which I come, where we really have a very low voltage and where it is necessary to reconstruct these facilities, to make reconstruction of that low voltage network, and for that to provide funding from the Republic's budget through investments in these low voltage networks. That's what's very important to me. What I'm saying, I'm speaking from experience and what I'm always saying out of practice, so this is a great need for our people, especially for those consumers whose electricity is cut off, because tomorrow they're looking for new conditions, and they can't respect those conditions, and plus they're looking for bigger funds, bigger taxes that they can't provide. Once again, honourable fellow Members, I will vote for these proposals. As for REM, my colleagues have already said, we have a large number of media whose headquarters is not here in Serbia, but is based outside the Serbian country, which behave in a way that is not needed, and here they use all the benefits given in Serbia. Once again, distinguished colleagues, I will vote as an MP and as president of the United Peasants' Party for these proposals. I expect that in the next period, in the next 2021, we will have a greater opportunity to invest, but I also understand the situation that now the crown, the pandemic, is a great need to invest in health, to protect people's health, and we need to understand that. I once again appeal to all of our people, from this pay phone, I say to all people to protect themselves as prescribed, as the Crisis Staff said. You wear masks, you protect yourself, you keep your distance, that's the only way we can save us and our loved ones. Once again, I think it's necessary and I'll always support all those measures that the waist says. Once again, dear colleagues, I will vote for this proposal, as president of the United Peasants' Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1213	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1214	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, according to the agenda and topics that are before us today, which we are discussing and will ultimately decide on, each one is important. I think the citizens of the past few hours have been able to hear everything they're interested in and realize how serious these decisions are for every man in our country. However, as I must admit, a large number of speakers before me, something that is personally most interesting to me and something that I have insisted on in the past few years is the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, better known as REM, and all that he does or does not do. You've heard a lot of examples, a lot of grudges in the previous period, but we can't help but feel that, as much as we're saying here, somehow discrimination will always go to the harm of people who are SNS officials, support SNS or just vote for SNS. You've heard a lot of examples here, and I don't know where you might find a more drastic example of disrespect for a country where you work from the fact that you registered your two TVs, N1 and Nova S in Luxembourg. You make fun of all of us Serbian citizens by saying that you're just re-emitting your program, which in practice would mean that all the shows they're doing live and live, they're recording in Luxembourg, and then they're broadcasting there, and they're re-emitting here. I am very interested in whether people in Luxembourg are watching "The Impression of the Week" and what they think about the show. If you have a situation where someone who is visiting on that television is not going to Luxembourg, but New Belgrade to come to the N1 television studio, the question arises – why don't you pay taxes to Serbia? You've heard a lot of examples here, I'm not going back to each one, but I want, as every time, to support something concrete and with pictures and evidence. The first thing concerns the videos used in the campaign in July of the month. What I'm about to show you is a sign of a boycott. On the left hand side is a sign of the Alliance's boycott for Serbia, then as it was called, of course, Gilas's pulen, which he designed, created, and which was not long after the failed boycott and fell apart. On the other hand, then, the identical sign of a boycott was some famous organization that made the video, broadcast it on the New S and the N1 and said this wasn't a political message. So you call on people not to go to elections, it's not a political message, and that's why it doesn't belong to political marketing. What's interesting? This video was made by the JSP agency. The agency celebrated itself in the famous film "Governmental", which lasts for four hours and serves only for the Satanization of Alexander Vukic and his family, where the conversationaries changed as on the tape and none of whom could find a single letter of good words for Alexander Vukic or for the success of our country, where no one could defend him, nor express their opinion on any question, but 15 people ruled and reached conclusions on personal conviction. So, the people who created this film "The Ruler" made this video, and they broadcast over 400 times on Nova S and on N1. For these 400 times, they paid only 1.2 million dinars, and the SNS that was advertised on these TVs paid 3.9 million dinars for only 28 videos. Now the question for REM is, how did you let you have a picture like this, that you have the highest possible number of videos, and the lowest price, and that you have the lowest number of videos here, and the highest price? Why didn't REM react to things like this? Why didn't REM react when this organization, this firm, paid for its spots by 3,000 dinars per minute and the SNS paid 140,000 dinars? That's why everything REM's doing so far, out of my corner, isn't good, and it's gonna have to be much better. Because being an aggressive minority, who is not likely to threaten, blackmail, announces lawsuits, calls out journalists based on physical appearance or the way they dress, doesn't mean he's protected and doesn't mean you have to be afraid of him. Why does REM keep quiet when Dragan Gilas makes fun of a television journalist because he doesn't like his pants and calls him a reporter in tights? Why did REM keep quiet when the press asked Dragan Gilas, and he answered them with – let me tell you? Where was this REM and where were they all when they beat up journalists Pinka Gordana Zelec and Mara Dragovic? Where were these institutions when Ivana Vučićevic from Studio B or Barbara Živić went through the worst fungi and mud, when those women were openly threatened? Where were they when the right hand of Dragan Djilas, Sergei Trifunovic, was a journalist from RTS who only ran the show, in a way that they obviously didn't like, called for the oldest trade, and then the various officials of Dragan Djilas raced who would be more offended, and that failed lawyer Vladimir Todorovic came forward? You keep quiet about all this and it's not absolutely good. It doesn't matter if it's a journalist who's not doing a good job from the corner of Dragan Gilas or any man in our country. You have no right to demean, insult anyone in this way, let alone threaten or threaten his life. What particularly can be resented by REM is the fact of the double arches and the discrimination to which the SNS and the people who support it are exposed. In 2012, we had videos in which Boris Tadic plays basketball with a boy. At the time, the slogan was "For a Safe Future", for the sure destruction of the Serbian future, as the citizens would say, for the future he ruined by closing down all possible factories and leaving more than 500,000 people at work in criminal privatisations, then no one advertised. So, Tadic to play basketball with the child is fine, Gilas to visit and play with children in pre-election meetings, and that's fine, that doesn't bother REM. So, there's no problem, that's Gilasu's allowed, and when SNS makes a video with one child, who was just presented as a conversation with children, because our campaign was called "For Our Children's List", it's an automatic big problem. All organizations, and primarily N1, Nova S, Gilas and its half-trons, are calling for a ban, REM immediately responds and bans the video. So where are you going to take a more drastic example of double arches and discrimination? Tell me if it's hypocritical. Unfortunately, to rule the double arches and that everything is allowed when it comes to SNS, President Aleksandar Vukic and his family, we had opportunities to see when Alexander Vukic, his native brother Andrej Vukic and his son Danilo Vukic, were placed in the same basket. In the same picture, they were in the same basket with Sarish, Kosmajc, Bojovic and Miskovic. People, where you were then to condemn and say that it's not normal for one child, even if there is a child of President Alexander Vukic, to put in the same basket with these people who have at least a problem with the law, convicted criminals, people being investigated against. Where were you then to say the target was drawn at the head of Daniel Wolfich. You dragged Andrei Vukic through the mud every time you ran out of campaigns, or imaginary affairs. Whenever you don't know what you're going to do, you remember Andre Wolfie, and you're starting to make up stories about what kind of land he owns, the places he owns. When it turns out to be a lie, you're nowhere to direct any apology. Never anywhere. So today, when Brother Gojko Gilas, there is, not today, when today he is also found out about his enormous wealth that is now measured, and I believe that he will grow to five and a half million euros, or 35 real estate, where is now research journalism of N1 and Nova S? Where are all your analysts now, where all those conversators you brought in on fictional shows, are to satanize President Alexander Vukic and his family. Well, where are these people now to say something about what they think, that a brother who is not famous in the business world, born brother of Dragan Gilas, can acquire 5.5m euros only in real estate. Are you going to go now and ask, perhaps to these addresses, is that where Gojko Gilas appears? Will you ask whether it is normal for a citizen in Serbia to have more property than a pair of socks? You won't. You won't, because you're not allowed by the boss of Dragan Gilas. You won't, you've never done it, you'll never do it. This is not news for you, news is for you when Marinika Tepic sees marijuana fields in Morovic, and they are essentially chicken farms. That's what you're going to investigate to go and make sure the chickens are there. For you, the news is that Marinika Tepic, a miracle, notices in December that leaves are falling in Novi Sad. Imagine the fallen leaves of frostbite? That's news for you. For you, the news is also when my colleague Marjan Risticevic, whom I want a quick recovery, because he has a problem with the coronary virus, when he's the victim here, when they tried to lynch him at this door, when they tried to take his life here, on Nova S and N1, a quick spin at the orders of Dragan Gilas, from the key chain Marinika Tepic tried to make a knife. You've been reporting it for days and talking about it. Did you make an apology? Of course not. Then you find it appropriate to say that there is some kind of dictatorship in Serbia, that you have a ban on freedom of speech, whatever. According to various Sundays and media, Aleksandar Vukic was more on the front page with a gun pointed at him than anyone could have guessed at any time. What's left of you, just to publish a self-adhesive album where you're going to stick those sick cartoons of yours and compete with what method should judge him, his family, or all of us who represent the SNS. I'm sorry no one in front of REM felt the need to react to all this stuff. I hope that in the future many things will change, and that all that we have said today and I and my colleagues will reach out to them that discrimination at any level is absolutely unacceptable, and that we can differ in the idea of politics, city-making, state-to-state, that we can discuss everything, but that in this way endangers the life of anyone in our country, it is absolutely unacceptable. For the finale, I would like to know how REM will in future treat the televisions that 85%, if we include the advertising space that they have, dedicated to anti-state policy, devote to the Satanization of Alexander Vukic and his family, that they will be presented to them in the next period and that they will have the courage to at least suggest something, because, anti-state television, we do not say by chance, and the citizens do not say that, in their show, those people who convince us to fight for Serbia's interest, in their shows, the map of Serbia is presented without our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. If for them Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of Serbia, it is their problem, it will always be for us, and that is why we are responsible for politics and we are fighting for our southern province. People who are registered in Luxembourg, who do not pay taxes to our country, who are doing everything against our country, find themselves in a position to hate us all and satanize us all. I don't think that's fair at all. Therefore, for all REM representatives in this report, take more care of each television set, do not be afraid of any television, none of the overrich tycoon, even if it is Dragan Gilas with Comrade Šolak or his upcoming tycoon, brother, Gojko Gilas. You are working in the best interests of Serbian citizens, the best interests of our country, because we do not have a second country to Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1215	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1216	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media or REM for short. There will be some positive items here, there will be positive features but also negative ones. First things first. The Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media or REM is an independent, independent body aimed primarily at issuing media service permits and controlling them. That's good. It should also promote the culture and language of the Republic of Serbia but the culture and language of national minorities. It's a good thing he deals with professionalism in his ranks, which means there are highly educated people in her ranks. That's very important, because they choose the programming scheme. Why does it matter? Well, to protect the dignity of a person first and then to protect the rights of minors. However, there is one problem. Of course, they're also fighting hate speech. That's very disputable, but we're going in a row. As for the protection of the rights of minors, I'm not sure they responded when they were in the most flagrant, most disgusting and morbid manner offended by the children of the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. I'm not sure that they responded when it was Mr. Nog's, that the whole family was lynching, hanging from the terraces. Shame on them. Why isn't someone responding then? The press profession is honorable. Every honor 95% of people are normal, healthy, real people who respond to things like this, but five percent shut up. Why? It should be united when things like this are at stake. The word has power. The media is very powerful. Unfortunately, we don't have a verbal delinquent law that I'd very much like to have, so let's take care of in this high house what we're going to talk about first. You can't insult a child. Guys, remember that once and for all, not a child. Come on, we were both bots and bastards and toothless and sandwiches and all kinds of, all right, on the side of everything, why toothless. Well, because 400,000 people were fired in 2008. Count if one worked in the family it's a million people without bread. How a man's gonna put his teeth on, think about it when he doesn't have to feed his family. We didn't fire anyone. On the contrary, it was a natural outflow, a retirement with rewards. Also, we hired 600,000 people from 2012 to 2020. Now, that's why the 2008 estimate was 26%, and today it's 7.5% with the decline trend. Just the other day, 205 doctors and nurses were employed in Nis. Right now, medical staff are being hired, they will be 1,500 at the Clinical Center in Batajnica o and the hospital in Kruševec. That's how it works. We shouldn't be offended. Come on, we have different political views, that's fine. But to tell the young MP, there are over 50% of young MPs here today, that's our future, that he has ugly hair, that he's ugly, please, what are you talking about? Why didn't you say – this guy's a college graduate, he's finished master, international relations, bravo, boy, that's how it works, he's 26 years old, great speeches. Or, a young entrepreneur who works, hires, has fantastic speeches here, fights for Serbia. We all pay taxes. If we weren't paying, we'd be all over the media. Let's get serious sometime. I am sorry why REM does not react to many things, and above all from here a letter has gone to declare what is going on with the United Group belonging to Mr Šolak, one of the richest people in the Republic of Serbia. They replied in writing that they were not registered with the APR, that they were not registered with them, and then they said where they were registered – they were registered in Luxembourg. You know what they're doing? They're repacking the program in Slovenia so they're re-emitting what they want us to hear. We hear things here. But, people, they don't pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia. It's embarrassing. I guess it's every man's pride to pay his taxes to his country, to pay everything he needs to his country, so what's left with him, that's what he'll live on. Because that tax we pay goes to the budget, and the budget makes schools, hospitals, kindergartens and everything else. How much money does a man need to be happy? Is that 500 million euros, billions? This man must have a billion, two, three, I don't know, I don't count. It doesn't matter. Pay your taxes, Mr. Solak, pay the state, we'll be grateful, that's what hospitals, schools are built on, you'll help someone who's sick. That's how it works. I'm asking REM to have a little more courage. I'm interested in what are these inspections and state institutions that simply don't respond? If they're afraid, don't be afraid, what's the matter, I'd like to know. Of course, like all my colleagues, I will support the proposals of these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1217	Thank you. Next is colleague Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1218	The Honorable chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as someone who was a longtime journalist by 2012 witnessed the biggest media darkness in Serbia's history. The most responsible for this media darkness was Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and their counterparts. At that time, we had only a few media, one radio station, "Fox" radio, one weekly "Peace", daily "Justice" and several other cable TV and radio stations, possibly some local media, where you could hear the truth, where you could hear the voice of the opposition. And what do we have today? Today we have Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak, who have earned not millions, not dozens, but hundreds of millions, we have media that control through SBB or Luxembourg, we have N1, we have Nova S, we have a majority of printed and electronic media that are unique to support the politics of Dragan Gilas and that they either participate in a sharp hack against Alexander Vukic and his family or not to report on what the Serbian Government is doing, i.e. on the results, on the fight against the Crown of the Virus, on the fight against the Mafia and on the good politics of Alexander Vukic and his associates. Therefore, of course I will support all these reports and decisions that we have received on regulatory bodies, REM, etc., but I expect both REM and the Anti-Corruption Agency and other regulatory bodies to be far more courageous in the coming period, far more courageous when it comes to business reports and Dragan Gilas and the influence of Gilas, especially on electronic media. 'Cause that's what REM's doing. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, I have only one thing to say – I expect the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I believe that most employees in that agency and other regulatory bodies are honest and honest people who are professionally doing their job, but that they also look for reports as detailed as possible when it comes to the assets of Dragan Gilas and their associates. Because we as MPs and other state and local officials, of course, are obliged to submit revenue and property reports to the Anti-Corruption Agency. And of course we are the first, especially from the ruling coalition's parties, to obey the laws. Because if one of us doesn't respect the law, the first one should answer. But don't, gentlemen, be protected like a white bear. Because Dragan Gilas has confirmed on many occasions that maltenes are nothing sacred but his family. He loves his family so much that Gojko Gilasu left 30 properties in downtown Belgrade. I'm just going to remind you of Branko Cube, and a colleague mentioned Branka Cube, one of the heroes of my childhood, and he was attacked by Dragan Gilas in the morning. When Branko Cube organised free theatre performances for the children of Vracar and other municipalities of Belgrade during the winter break of 2018, Dragan Gilas went on a sharp media attack against Branko Cube, then 70-year-olds. So Gilasu is not sacred or child-friendly. I don't know who the childhood hero is to Dragan Gilas? For me, Branko Cube, and he's probably being boasted by a rich man named Baja Patak or someone like him, so he probably had this complex to crush these millions and heal his complexes by harassing Serbian citizens through his media, while at the same time organising all possible attacks, especially on Alexander Vukic and his associates. I will always defend the family of Alexander Vukic because Alexander Vukic, without the support of all of us, cannot do everything he wants, and he wants to lead Serbia into a better and safer future – for our children and therefore, once again, I call on them, and I will always invite fellow Members from all parties to be and support the Serbian government, to be supporter and president of Alexander Vukic, but also to first condemn these attacks coming from the mafia, the tycoon and individual political opponents of the Serbian and Alexander Vukic government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1219	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1220	Dear Chairman, since my colleagues and colleagues have already said enough about these points of the agenda, let me just say a few sentences, and that is that I am very glad that the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body, or REM, is particularly supportive because it is well done and that it is for the first time really conceived so that it is not temporary. So we finally got the right real, real financial plan and it's not temporary. We've heard different reviews about REM. Ladies and gentlemen, REM is operating under the law. There's no impact on REM on the right or left. But what is important, we must change media laws and bring them into line with the Development Strategy. Today, colleagues and colleagues talked about it. They were talking about the media, about the press. Let me say a few sentences after all. Of course, when it comes to journalists, I condemn every attack against a journalist, no matter what the reason was for attacking a journalist, but, ladies and gentlemen, journalists need to abide by the law and good customs. I don't know if everyone does that, judge for yourself. Speaking of which, let me say that Serbia is still a democratic country in which the criticism of authorities is even desirable, but there is a huge difference between criticism and media attacks. We mix it very often, and political analysts politicians, but even journalists. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts that you, dear colleagues and colleagues, have been speaking extensively here today. So, if it's a real media criticism, it's based on the truthfulness of the facts, but it's not a lie, and it's precisely because it's based on the truthfulness of the facts, it's socially useful. So, for the whole society, it's even healing. However, with us certain journalists, employed in certain lists, but also some on-call analysts, scientific and professional charlatans, individual leaders of political parties and movements, false about the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and some of the MPs, poison our public to the limit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia I will now compare two journalists, back 15 years and now to see that they are on the same task of breaking the country and destroying the president as they were. Remember only the journalist BIRN who lied that there was manipulation about the election of a company that was supposed to be in charge of pumping water on a copy of the Tamanava-West Field during the 2014 flood in Obrenovac, which was even denied by the World Bank. Imagine how they lied. Now, allow me, dear citizens, to tell you who this BIRN and you gentlemen are MPs, you who haven't heard. BIRN is a follow-up media organisation known as the Institute for War and Peace Research. What is he known for in Serbia and the most famous BIRN? It was during October 5th and before October 5th and the 1990s during the wars that took place in our space. In Serbia, he is particularly famous for publishing the text of Royal Journalist Miroslav Filipovic in which he accused the Yugoslav Army in 2000, believe it or not, but on this charge, so in 1990, in Kosovo and Metohija, he deliberately killed at least 800 Albanian children, under five years old, which was a notorious lie, and that the students had their heads cut off in front of the parents of children, and then the bodies without heads were selling Albanian children for 5,000 marks. Be careful what I tell you to link today to our opposition. The journalist, Miroslav Filipovic, was named internet journalist of the year. He was a correspondent for the "Today", this "Today" list that attacks us all the time, and this is today's journalist from today's "Today" who is constantly interested in this royal journalist, and you will see how he ended up. He was a correspondent, this Miroslav Filipovic, "Danas", "France Press" and an associate of the Institute, i.e. BIRN. The military court sentenced him to seven years in prison for spying and spreading false news. I've only told you one thing about how he spread. There are hundreds of them, and that went around the world to satanicize the Serbian people, President Milosevic, and lead to the 1999 bombing. But immediately on 12 May 2000, he was released from prison. You'll see who let him out of prison, because of the pressure of the United States, Western countries and domestic NATO dusters and some NGOs. Even back then, the State Department, Philip Ricke, was interested in his defense. Filipovic was pardoned by Dr Vojislav Kostunica on official duty. Please, I have to say, but also to cut back on time, Dr Vojislav Kostunica had such pressures from the late Djindjic and the Democratic Party that he could not endure some Western countries, but he said it was to let Filipovic out of prison, but that he was truly guilty of spying and that he was muddying our army and our country. When Filipovic was released from prison, miraculously, he was welcomed with a bouquet of flowers by the then mayor of Nis and later by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Zoran Zivkovic. Yeah, that's the guy who sat here yesterday and he'll never sit down again, because the citizens of this town know what they're doing. Filipovic was appointed secretary to the government of Zoran Djindjic as a stand, as a longtime member of the Democratic Party. Why am I telling you this? Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to the same model, the same political factors, the same political actors satanize today the Serbian people, today the Serbian Army and the President of the Republic, instead of before Milosevic, today Alexander Vukic. I'll give you one example. I've got thousands. Let me give you an example of Mr. Petricic's cartoonist. He attacks the people Serbian by the same principle, and then President Vukic. Petricic, demeaning the people, says, I quote, "This people are unintegrated and naive," a quote completed. I have hundreds of quotes, but you've probably read, honourable MPs, so I don't speak. He told the President of the Republic that he was making fun of the President of the Republic, and he said, "The first time we've had a leader to make fun of. He's a joke. I've never made a joke with one before," finished the quote. You, Mr. Petricic, make fun of 70% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Are you at least a little ashamed of these citizens, if you don't have a President of the Republic? Here, you see respected citizens, journalists, cartoonists and his code of conduct. Mr. Petricic, are you making fun of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, because he financially consolidated the state that was on the edge of the ambis that your political like-mindeds brought in? Are you mocked for bringing the country out of isolation without any international respect when you ruled, and today it is respected both in the east and west? Are you making fun of him for building hundreds of factories, hundreds of schools, hospitals, health homes? Are you mocking maybe because he built hundreds of miles of roads and highways or maybe because he built it, which burns in the work day and night? Is it because he raises and secures salaries and pensions? Is it because it raises Serbia's army to an envious level from the level you've brought it to? I ask, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to Dragan Gilas, otherwise for Europe "Jilas", there are two passports, the MPs asked me why, when police asked him for one passport, he said "You are not Gilas", and he replied to our policeman "I have another passport". So, for Serbia, it's Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, because it works more Europeanly when it's "jilas", they think it's Hungarian. With his brother Gilas or Gilas trying as well as on October 5th, along with these journalists to satanize the people and president of the Republic, you will hear what this gentleman was doing, to come to power and re-destruct the factories as they destroyed after October 5th, and he again took 619 million, and before he was in politics he was ordinary "gologous". That's this Dragan Gilas. So Gilas, be careful, to connect with that journalist in July 2020, was in the Republic of Croatia and hence attacked President Vukic, guaranteeing to the Croats that he would be shot down with the help of Europe. At that time in Croatia, he said, I quote, "In the Serbian parliament are only parties to Milosevic's student Dacic and Seselj's student, Vucic," a quote concluded, adding that he, Gilas, will, with the help of Europe, replace Vukic. That's what he was doing on October 5th, and he won power with the street. This isn't 2000 years old, Mr. Gillash. Mr. Gilas, in a people called Gilas, Europe does not vote. Remember that well. The Serbian citizens vote and they will be defined, as in previous elections, for work, for construction, for reform, for better life, for better roads, for schools, for salaries, for pensions, for the future of our children. I'm sorry, you're a good mention to me, and what do I have to say about the whiteneck, what do I have to say about him? Allow me, though, since you asked me to say so. I have nothing to say about Bjelovlic, but it is a man without a rotten morale and shame, because if he had a little morale, he would have fulfilled the promise he made to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when he said he would leave the Republic of Serbia if the protests "One out of five million" failed. Dear citizens, the protests have failed, so I urge him to keep his promise to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as a high moral person. After all, I do not want to deal with Bjelovlic, a man who deals with bribery and corruption, that is not what I say, but his colleague Antonijevic says. That's why Belarus needs to deal with the police, not me, because he's doing bribery and corruption. That's why Belogrlic is a moral disgrace to the nation and state. Poor and miserable is the society that would create this great moral thunder, even if it was called Belogrlic. In the end, I'm not going to deal with a man who said he wasn't leaving Serbia because of poverty, but because of primitives and so accused, respected citizens, of being primitives. For him, Serbia is not a country. He said, quote - it's a jungle for him. That's why it makes sense to defend those who say that their country is where they're well, and I'm going to end up with the Seneca quote again, I see that they haven't read the stenogram, which he said -- I love my country not because it's beautiful, rich and advanced, but because mine is finished quote. I recommend to my critics that a good stenogram be read by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1221	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1222	Thank you, Mr. Hardsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to tell my colleagues and, of course, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that a term that implies something that has been used in modern times in the past few years, especially in certain NGOs, because that is so-called. The fourth pillar of government or the fourth branch of government, which is thought to be independent bodies and regulatory bodies, that this does not exist, that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ours, supports the work. Today we have agreement on the financial plan of the Agency for Energy, the Agency for Electronic Media and the Securities Commission, and it is not disputed that they should do their job in the domain of their legal and constitutional powers, but I want to say once again because of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that these agencies, that these bodies are responsible for their work to the highest legislative body in our country, which is this esteemed home in which we are sitting, that is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and these are MPs and that should be known, it should be known that the MPs are exclusively controlling the work of these regulatory and independent bodies and that we are as MPs and as people chosen by the citizens of Serbia, by our people, are responsible for implementing public policies for what these regulatory bodies are responsible and what these independent bodies are responsible for today. Of course, I want to say when it comes to electronic media that we have really one situation that has been trying for months now for my fellow MPs and colleagues from the government and also the President of the Republic himself, Mr. Vukic, that it is kind of clear to the citizens and that these other parts and other pillars of power and, in particular, the judicial one, we encourage them to resolve some of the issues that are within their constitutional jurisdiction. My esteemed colleague, Mr. Mirkovic, talked about it, talked about some media that did not respect the laws of our country concerning taxes, which concern fiscal policy, but did not respect our country elementally, given that he showed himself and presented here evidence that when they mention the Republic of Serbia, when they mention what they are working in, and we all know where they are and how they broadcast this programme, I think, and I will not hesitate to say both to Nova S and N1, to show this country and its territory without inseparable work, without Kim. These are the things that we should talk about here in Parliament and about which we should publicly debate and send a message to all those who want to deal with any work in this country, including the media because it is a business like any other, elementally -- they should respect the Constitution of this country, they should respect this country, they should respect the people of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. What should be the greatest vision and display of patriotism is tax pay. Anyone who pays taxes in this country today, whether it's a micro-enterprise, little, whether it's a large company, domestic, foreign, anyone in particular in these terms of the pandemic caused by Kovid 19 by this majority in parliament, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, by the president of the state, Mr. Vukic was designated a hero. Anyone who employs people, anyone who provides a free market for employee earnings, who creates a better business environment in this country, who creates conditions for a better life in this country deserves attention and deserves respect and deserves only that one democratic state is a liberal-economically-oriented one to do, and that is to create such an environment that everyone in the same way can do business and do their job. Why would any media, why would any other company be ahead of others and why would we also be banned or be crucified on the same media if we were to talk about elementary things that anyone who wants to do business in this country, which is next – to pay a value added tax, to pay taxes on the income of citizens, or taxes, and to pay taxes on employees, to pay taxes on profits if, thank God, there is, is this complicated, is this problematic, are we different from any country in the region, in Europe, in the whole world? Well, we're no different. The only big difference, when we talk about Serbia, is that in the past four or five years, thanks to President Vukic, thanks to his efforts and the economic reforms he has implemented, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is now continuing to pursue economic reforms and is creating such a tax policy that we are the most competitive in the region and when it comes to the value added tax rate, and when it comes to the rate of income tax for citizens and company profits. That is why in this number of foreign companies they come to Serbia, they want to invest and have confidence in this country to invest their capital in it and to tie their fate, the fate of their companies, their employees long-term to this country. We now, ladies and gentlemen, MPs need to consider and take months in various debates here in parliament, on television, to fight to prove what it is, how can I say, normally, which is basically in every normal country, which is that whoever wants to do business, who wants to have any social influence in the country should at least be worthy of respecting its laws and paying taxes in that country. Dear counterpart Mirkovic, they may have been led by Luxembourg's recognition of the so-called "Mirkovic". Kosovo, which is Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence, thus bringing forward a map of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, this is a joke, but it's not a joke and it's not an accident that they did, as it is no accident that this company, this production of JSP, has shown over 400 times the videos that have been directly hit by what is a democratic, basic, constitutional right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and guaranteed, and what we here as representatives of citizens guarantee, which is the right to choose, the right to be elected and the right to choose, and then say that they, out of some of their own, have come to them, the idea of paying, of course, at the benefit of 400 times, the publication of videos that promote the boycott of elections, parliamentary and local ones, so at all levels in the Republic of Serbia. Do they really think these tycoon televisions and these foreign centres can and these liberal circles in Europe and here, that we are really people and people and government and states and most of them who win here a huge number of votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we are so naive and that we are just going to let them destroy everything that we have managed to do in the past few years in political, economic, health, social and all other fields. Also, I'd like to say there are some so-called. opposition leaders whose support is today, I see that Bosko Obradovic, I don't know if I should laugh, I have to share it with you, he called on Parliament's president to open dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. I guess he doesn't realize that at the level of support, the support that his idea leader and the one he raises to great heights, which is Dimitria Ljotic, went to the election in 1935 in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia as he would now pass the election with 1% support. And, imagine, so far, he's calling and he's calling on the President of Parliament Mr Dacic to open a dialogue with them or with others, who probably have 0.2%, 0.5% or 0.3% to sum up everything in one thing is one statistical mistake from political ideas, political parties, and so on. political leaders. But I want to say that regardless of what was done in the previous period, we will continue to fight as SNS together with our coalition partners to protect all those people who work in REM and who we encourage to do their job and that we will react the same way when Bosko Obradovic and his camera went ahead of REM and when Olivera Zekic drove him out of there. So one woman, we all know, was re-elected to the REM Council, which is not an excessively strong constitution, but intellectually, of course, was very powerful and that strong Boško Obradovic, who was entering RTS, breaking in with a motor saw, breaking in here with us into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, bringing stone, spreading fascist ideas here, managed to drive out within seconds. We will fight it to become "mein strim" as he did on RTS, as he tried with his friends to break into the Belgrade City Assembly when three women drove him out of there. And him and his camel. Andrea, Masha and Natasha expelled the fascist when he wanted to break in and interrupt the Belgrade City Assembly session. I want to send that message that we're going to fight together, that we're going to provide conditions for all these agencies, all these people, the whole infrastructure, just for one thing. Just to do their job and that is the greatest quality, and that is what is the essence of this government, that everyone is doing their job and that this government, this majority in parliament, is creating a good environment, that this country is developing, that it strengthens its external political position and, of course, with success and a good result, is working to preserve our vital, national and all other interests. I also have to mention something that was published a few hours ago, thanks to exactly what is called analytical investigative journalism, which is related to something new because every day simply surfaces something that is related to the worst possible forms of corruption that happened until 2012 in our country. I'm talking about what happened. Now the company "Sil Komertz" has appeared, which, for consulting services in the process of building the bridge on Adi, was legally charged, one of my colleagues said nicely yesterday, I think that Milenko Jovanovic, as Srecko Sojić in "Silent Skin" – was mutilating, but I tortured according to the regulations. Two and a half million euros were charged for some consulting services. No one knows what, and eight million more through certain cash transactions that can be subjected to a crime of money laundering. And of course I'm calling on the national authorities and the courts to process this immediately, because there's obviously no end to these people. Or we're going to deal with these things that we're trying to bring out here every day, to show, to prove, to show our contracts and to show those who are responsible for having to react, because at this point in time, we've done everything we can, the government has done what is possible, the police have done what is possible, now it's up to those who need to complete it, to process it, because we have to stop this kind of behavior and we have to discover every sight and every corruption affair that appears in this country. But these are really numbers, these millions are really something that only any normal man we represent here in Parliament can do... We represent normal, ordinary people in both this Belgrade and every part of this country, we don't represent that so-called. as they say, "a circle of two" and all those who think it belongs to them and do a two-and-a-half million or eight million-euro consulting. Which consulting were they doing? What's that? What kind of experts are they? Zoran Rubignoni? Foreign companies that were founded in Delaware, then founded the daughters of companies here and, of course, there shouldn't be an excessively large expert or economist to see what the intention of all this was. And no one's going to publish that. I can compare this situation with the situation that is happening in one of the largest democratic countries and the largest democracies in the world, as in America. It's identical. Open "New York Times", open "Washington Post", open any Si-En-En portal any mainstream media, 90% of the texts were against Tramp and his administration, as well as here. Open any portal, open social networks, all have one and all have the same goal. They can't beat Vukic in the free democratic elections, they can't win with ideas, they can't propose new projects, they're simply not capable of it, and of course there's this tycoon-media NGO that thinks, in a naturally violent way, to bring down the president of the state and to bring down everything we've done so far, which has been done for the benefit of our country and our people and to bring this country back five, ten or fifteen years, again. I want to tell you something else, ladies and gentlemen, how complex the moment we live in is, not just about this pandemic, which I'm not going to talk about today, because enough is talked about and enough spears about this topic cross over politically and on all other plans. I am talking about some other dangers to our country's vital interests, and what certain liberal circles want to achieve when it comes to Serbia and the region. Today I read Daniel Server's statement, which will be very interesting to you, Parliament Speaker, who calls on the new administration in America to review the Dayton Agreement, to review entity powers and to define a new policy towards the region, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, for the cause and effect of the Republic of Serbia. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, that those liquids that President Vukic is in relations with the world's greatest players, China, the Russian Federation, the European Union, and this time and with the United States, which is embodied in the Washington Agreement, to continue and to fight with the new administration and administration formed by elected President Joe Biden, to fight for the best position of our country, to defend the Republic of Serbia, to defend the rights and interests of Serbs throughout the region and wherever they live. To link this to the Energy Agency, it is very important that I mention that part of the Washington Agreement concerning co-operation in the field of energy, as regards diversification of the supply of the Republic of Serbia to energy, and that is very important, it is very important that we do a project of gas pipeline that will bring Serbia and Bulgaria together and we will make another possibility for our country to be sovereign and independent, and of course, our economy supplies from some other sources and that we change the situation that exists now, because, of course, it is clear to all of you, with respect to each and every partner, that the state that wants to be sovereign and independent must have a diversified supply of energy and must have the security of supply of energy, in order to maintain its economy and to defend its most vital national and all other interests. That, therefore, is of the utmost importance when it comes to co-operation in the field of energy. I will conclude that it is also very important because of Kosovo and Metohija. An agreement signed in Washington between President Vukic and President Trampa defines joint management of the Gaza Strip, which is of strategic interest not only to Kosovo and Metohija, but to the whole region, both Serbs and Albanians. I don't think many can even understand how much President Vucic, thanks to wisdom, thanks to his vision, thanks to his energy, how good he did through what he signed the Washington Agreement, what he kept gas pipelines, what he kept the supply of electricity especially for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but also for this other side, preventing what they've been trying for years and what they have in their heads, which is to take over the natural resources and all the other resources that the Republic of Serbia and our people have the right to fight for. We will try with the new administration to show them what the former accepted, which is that the Republic of Serbia has legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. This policy will continue, it is a policy, and it is the orientation of our majority here in parliament, with all that we can do in the field of security of conditions for all who can help this country modernise, who can help this country employ even more people and who can help the vision of President Vukic "Serbia 20-25" achieve, implement it at full capacity, and I can freely tell you that this vision does not only apply to 2025, but to many, many more years, and I am sure that we will have the opportunity to have the people's trust to lead, headed by President Vukic, this country, to modernise it and to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1223	Thank you. National MP and vice president of the National Assembly Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1224	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the attitude of the National Assembly towards independent institutions, as they are most often called, are seen, among other things, and I would say very well, and based on everything that happens at the current session of the National Assembly. We, to remind everyone who follows this, who is very interested in understanding what they're following, are treating everyone with respect. to independent institutions. We're discussing their annual reports, as we did it, and for the first time, that anyone can remember that it was done that way. When we received their annual reports last time, we debated everyone here, here in the tide we spoke to them, made comments on everything we think is important, but asked them for their opinion and for their attitude to share with the citizens of Serbia, how they experience it and from their point of view, how they co-operate with the National Assembly that chose them and how they co-operate with other authorities of the Republic of Serbia. You remember what they said, all of them, but literally all of them. They had only words of praise for the treatment they have by the National Assembly and for the support they receive from the competent state authorities, both then and now. If you haven't noticed, you who are following this, and you only have the bile to spread the burden of the National Assembly, the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic, the government of Serbia and anyone who doesn't suit you politically, notice now, we've just started working in this assembly, we immediately, explicitly invited these people to come and present their annual reports. We did it with four institutions yesterday, today we are discussing different demands to support and help the needs of some others, some others. But, then, that's our relationship to them. And what their relationship is and what their vision is is in those reports, and it says well, for those who eventually realized in the meantime that reading does not hurt, many of the former regimes are not yet, and the ignorant to hear and understand. The example is done by the Corruption Prevention Agency says it has valuable, essential assistance from the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, so that without it they could not carry out their regular tasks so well, to join their regular work. They also had support when it came to their needs for the budget to be properly projected, adopted, to be granted the employment of important personnel, everything they asked for, literally everything they asked for today, the state has made it possible for them to do so. That's what he says, he claims here also testifies the Fiscal Council with which many would probably just like to argue with us. But, these people, as much as we once disagree, we are respected by the National Assembly, by the National Assembly and the Resorial Committee, we have always had support for our work and for our needs. So that's our relationship to them. What is the relationship between the former regime and those who only have to spread and only know how to spread bile and anger, which through their media, is through their Twitters. That's what they show best, and they say it themselves. For example, when there are some on-call geniuses from the non-government sector, watch this now – they challenge us, as MPs, the right to do what the law requires, to propose our candidates to work in these independent institutions. Can you imagine that? Can anyone in this world understand that? So to those who are full of mouths, but literally full of mouths of the story of the rule of law, that rule of law does not essentially not understand, but they do not really care about any rule of law. Today they tell us, you can't choose for members of the REM Council, and that's the topic, because we're talking about these institutions, the ones you want to propose, but you have to choose the ones we say are worthy and should be chosen. So the law there prescribes some candidates to propose churches and religious communities. And they do it according to the law, and it's here on the committee of the assembly in accordance with the law, and there's the on-call genius, all the Schools themselves, and all the Gilas themselves, and cry and cry as many names as you like, because that's what they're called. When they're called possibly different, then we'll call them different. As long as they're called Gilas and Sollac, that's what we'll call them. So their on-call geniuses say -- you can't from churches and religious communities make your proposals and your candidates, but it'll be some others we say should be. And you cannot make your proposals, but we will make suggestions, deliver them to you like this, and you are only here to listen to our will and to do what we command you and serve you. Just as smart and wise as these geniuses who know there's nothing to ask for in the election, so they don't get two votes of honor, so they don't go to the election. Now, these geniuses find themselves smart to say, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't be the government. We didn't go to the election, we didn't get two votes, no one loves us, everyone knows we're just bastards who ruined this country and destroyed it, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't be in some government. Why? Because we say so. Thank you very much. We've all been so upset about our esteemed opinion and what you're saying. But while democracy is in this country, and democracy is, for who will bear responsibility and who will deal with the organisation of the state, so the people will wonder. As asked today, they will wonder as long as we are able to decide. As you can see, this majority selected from the election list Alexander Vukic – for our children, strong and convincing, is firm enough to ask about it as long as we are in this session. Don't worry about the National Assembly or the State in general. But these geniuses who challenge us even the right to propose in accordance with what the law requires, which essentially doesn't care about the rule of law, give themselves the right to pass any, not even the law, but not even the principle, of elementary honesty and respect for another human being, according to a living being, judge anyone they don't like, as disgusting as they judge Alexander Vukic, of his children, of other members of his family, and of anyone who doesn't like him, and of the MPs, of course. For example, it must be a target for the shooting and Marko Atlagic by a certain Dusan Teodorovic who likes to be called an academic who concluded that he was invited to wonder why Marko Atlagic has Serbian citizenship and where it comes from. That he was invited to which one of us should be a citizen of this country at all, perhaps a member of the Serb people. Why? Because that's what he thinks. Marko Atlagic, who is the target for one single reason, these days, I'm not talking about otherwise, and you all know very well that it's not the first time. And it's not just him, it's every MP who dares to have the courage to say "Pop," and the Bob and call things by the right name, because for some things that are reasonably obvious and clear, he said what he thinks about it. He made a statement that he disagreed with. He declared what he considered even embarrassing and therefore he should be the target today and be the subject of the lynch. What is the great sin of Mark Atlagic counting his blood cells today and having these geniuses of the former regime all supported and worn by the wings of Gilas and the School media to hear again and to remember, to write if necessary, that he may be on the wallpaper? Because he reacted to an interview? An interview given by a famous actress, that's true, is a woman famous, and who said you know what, she said that we're dealing with cleaning in the way Stalin did today in this country. To banish people today, Professor Atlagic, to Siberia, right? Well, I'm not going to ask you if it's true, because anyone sane knows it's not true. Can I just ask you, is there any sense in those words? What's scary is what's wrong with one of us thinking it's a common injustice, that it's an insult. That it's an insult to both this country and to each of us who takes care of that country. Then it's a sin to say that it bothers us, that it's an insult, that it's an injustice, that it's a shame to say such things about your own country and the people who take care of it. Listen to the terrible and difficult words of Mark Atalgic, the lady who said it, and the actress Sablic is not enough patriotism. That's terrible. No less scary, you ma'am have a shortfall or a lack of patriotic feelings. That's all the criticism in Mark Atlagic's words. In addition, Marko Atlagic read what was put on the burden of the state, except for this Marko Atlagic said that Dutch people love their country although geography is not particularly great, it is the same with the Swiss, the Arabs as I see it, quoted Socrates as saying. What's so controversial and scary about it? It's not a dispute for you, but it's a dispute for us to say what we consider patriotic, or not patriotic. Is that a sin? Then what's a genius when you tell us we're traitors? What's that? Is that any nicer or scarier? Then what are you? You're hypocrites. You know that right now, so you can figure it out and remember it. Who gives you the right to judge any of us whether or not he deserves to be a citizen of this country. Marko Atlagic fought for the Serbian people at the time when it was the hardest and was where the biggest challenge was to be. Standing where it was supposed to be the hardest to show who you are and who you are. That's Mark Atlagic for all he did for the Serbs, which in the Republika Srpska Krajina... You heard the citizens of Serbia what the National Assembly thinks, and nothing else, let me tell you right away, don't even think about the people when you go out on the street. The same way they applaud Mark Atalgic, because they know it's all true. All that he did for his people in Krajina also did in Serbia when there was nothing much better or easier time than those I mentioned a few seconds ago. Tom and Mark Atlagic, you who don't take him out of your mouth these days, the docks, the vain, the useless yourself, you're not worthy of a coat or a coat to hold, or a door to open, well, there he is, and there you are. When you mention the National Assembly and our MPs, immediately you know, today Biljana Pilja reacted to one thing that was difficult for you to repeat because she accuses you directly, because she confronted you with your words. This will be the last thing I want to say today. Biljana Pilja read in this hall what those from the School of N1 have published and what they are repetitively repeating, reproving, retweeting these with also the Schools and the Nova S or from Gilas's "direct" and with the rest of us, God be with us who belong to tycoons and thieves. Their great opinion of the National Assembly and of all of us here, listen to what it says, this is what they wrote – a large congregation barn has become a crossroads where comedian spiders, dangerous fools, narrators, and the unfinished creations of the dam of their creator from the assassination. So, to react to the threat of assassination by the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, that makes us narrators, creatures, that makes us all a barn together. These are their wonderful words, their relationship with the institutions, these other ones we're talking about, but also with this one here, to the National Assembly. Of course, and that's where they found it appropriate to say all that again, as only they can, about Mark Atlagic. He is for them, and listen to this disgrace: the apatrid scum for the poor is most common. We're still, too, things and we're scum from this barn that hasn't been cleaned in years. Is this a relationship to the National Assembly, to the institutions? This is, you know, that you know that these things you're giggling and proud of, this is your mirror, and if someone humiliates the institutions in this country, it's you. Why? You know very well, because Alexander Vukic is a thorn in your eye precisely because he is an impenetrable obstacle to your unhealthy ambitions and a desire to return to power again, to harass and destroy and recharge your pockets, that Brother Gojko Gilas has 29 or 35 properties again and scream as much as you want, but that's true and that's what Dragan Gilas says. You don't like it from our mouths, you don't like it when you read it somewhere. Listen to Dragan Gilas when he explains – my and Gojkova's firm "Multicom" bought that villa. She bought that villa, and then a little later she reselled through the daughter of a company where Gojko Gilas was the director. It's true and you say it yourself. You whine and scream all you want. You're free to do that, and we're also going to do it again and we're not going to let it happen again to this country and this troubled people you've already peeled off their backs. You don't like the National Assembly because it was elected in democratic elections, and you know it, because the OSCE and its ODIR mission said not only that this year's elections were held effectively in the non-human conditions of the Kovid-19 pandemic, but because, listen now, what the report says, election participants were able to conduct the campaign, basic freedom of expression and gathering were respected. Dot. So that's what the people who watched these elections say, and you know it's all true, just as it's true that we won't allow you to re-raise and devastate, to get rich again, to re-sell your advertising seconds for tax evasion, so that this country has less resources, among other things, and for these hospitals that we're building these days, among other things, for means to treat. You're hoping for any kind of accident, because you think on the wings of that accident you're going to come back. You will never. While there is a convincing majority in this country, and as things stand, be not afraid for it either, for the politics of Alexander Vukic, while the support of this man is personal and all that he does, despite all that they do to him on the other hand, we will surely fight for this country, we will surely fight for its institutions. Once again, we show it in this session, but be assured we will show each of the following nothing less energetic, no less hearty and no less clear, because we have sworn in this room to serve the citizens of Serbia, the truth and justice. This is true and this justice is today on the side of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, on the side of our politics and brave people like Marko Atlagic and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1225	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1226	Can you just, Mr. Dacic, tell me the time I have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1227	I didn't tell you I wouldn't decourage you, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1228	Just say the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1229	Six minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1230	Thank you. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think that today at the National Assembly session, representatives of the institutions we give consent to, or whose financial plans we should approve, as they were yesterday and I see no reason why they are not present today to answer the questions of my esteemed younger colleagues who have now fully demonized and exposed the media terror of Dragan Djilas, such as Ivana Nikolic, such as Djorđa Todorovic, such as Milos Terzic, like all others who, on behalf of the SNS, have stood up today, to say that the presence of Dragan Gilas in public, media and political space is proportional to his support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why we don't have someone here today from the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to answer how it's possible that today in the Republic of Serbia you can unpunishedly call for the murder of the President of the Republic, how it is possible to unpunishe the news that Alexander Vukic is a man, a news that appeared two or three days ago on some of the portals controlled by Dragan Gilas and his self-called intellectual elite, that Aleksandar Vukic is a man who is directly behind death, that is, they say behind the murder of the patriarch Irine and the Metropolitan of Montenegro's Amphilochy Radovic? So, it would be good if the ladies and gentlemen of REM were here today to answer those questions, but even though they are not here, it's good that the citizens of Serbia have had the opportunity to hear what kind of political inexperiences, political opponents here in the National Assembly we are facing. They say today, I am reading the news now -- SNS MPs are attacking Dragan Gilas, and he is not present at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is true, but it is his choice, but is therefore present in "Today", but is therefore present on "N1" television, on "New S", on each portal. So he is much more present in the media than one MP, but also one SNS official. I say again, it's inadmissible, it's something that doesn't exist anywhere in the democratic world, that someone who hasn't even participated in the elections will be so present in the media, so vice versatilely proportional to his support in the electoral body. What I want to say is, therefore, Marko Atlagic has been exposed for days to the barbaric fire of the media that are under direct control of Dragan Gilas and under the barbeque fire of self-called members of the so-called so-called media. intellectual and cultural elites in Serbia. Here's what one member of that elite says. I don't have a problem saying his name because if someone's a great actor, a great writer, a great scientist, that doesn't mean there's a great man in every situation, and that doesn't mean there's a lot of patriotism in every situation. Mr. Cedomir Petrovic, son of famous actor Miodrag Petrovic Čkalje, who claims to be a member of the intellectual elite in the "Today" list of December 1st, so that's the number of yesterday's list "Today", says of Professor Dr. Marko Atlagic, one of the best acquaintances not only of Serbian medieval history, but of medieval history of all Yugoslav peoples, says he is a jerk who is held by Vukic in hand and distress. When this one is about to throw out vomit, this time at the expense of a great Serbian drama artist, which is a blow to and such a miserable culture, which is piling up not to die, if it isn't already. In the campaign against Mr Mark Atlagic, of course, Dragan Gilas was involved, so you don't think this is just an attack by the so-called. A member of the intellectual elite. Says Mr. Dragan Gilas - people are afraid, but actors should say shame on you either, shame on you for anything you attack Sekko Sablic. The barage fire after Mark Atlagic was also opened by Mr Dragan Bjeloglic, who says that Marko Atlagic is a great shame for Serbia because he had the courage to point out something that is inadmissible in the speech of an intellectual who thinks well of his country, and Mrs Jelisaveta Seka Sablic said - the country is where you are well, not where the charms are and now I ask Mr. Bjeloglic, Mr. Cedomir Petrovic, Mrs. Jelisaveta Sablic, Mr. Dragan Gilas, and what is wrong with them in Serbia? Well, they're ten times richer, each of them individually than Mark Atlagic. Marco, tell us, do you have an apartment in downtown Belgrade? Marko Atlagic is a man who is a professor of the university, who lives on the periphery of Belgrade, and all of these intellectual elite members who say that Serbia is not well, each of them has not an apartment but a hectare of residential space within a circle of two. And they're not doing well in Serbia. Well, shame on them, not Mark Atlagic, who had the courage to say that Serbia was changing. She has the right to Jelisavet Seka Sabljic to say that she has not seen new factories, new roads, new schools, new hospitals, dozens and hundreds of thousands of people who have received the job since Aleksandar Vukic was in power. That is the right of Dragan Belaric. It is the right of anyone who considers himself an artist, a writer, a member of an intellectual elite. But he must know, when he gives a political statement, he stops being an actor, stops being a writer, stops being a painter, becomes a politician. Get in the political arena. When you enter the political arena, then you must be prepared to respond to your political arguments. In Professor Mark Atlagic's speech, there was absolutely nothing offensive about Mrs Jelisaveta Seka Sabljic, who is indisputably one of the greatest Serbian actresses. But what she said in an interview with NIN since 12 November 2020 is really scandalous. It's all those quotes that I won't repeat, which my esteemed colleague Vladimir Orlic said, where Serbia is shown in the worst possible way. In politics, ladies and gentlemen and dear citizens of Serbia, nothing is an accident. I will now read to you, and that is what my distinguished colleague Vladimir Marinkovic has already pointed to, as the NIN text begins in that interview that Jelisaveta Seka Sabljic gave. That part was written by a journalist who interviewed this actress. "We are some haters' people." Why am I saying this? Because one great historian said – when you get one fact out of its context, then it stops being a fact, becomes a monster. In the past few days, they pulled out of the context of Mark Atlagic's speech and showed only what suits them, and I will now try to explain to Serbian citizens the concept in which Marko Atlagic said what he said. So, the lady who did the interview with... (President: Mr. Martinovic, you asked me how long it was left and I just want to ask you to finish quickly. Here, just a few sentences. It is important for Serbian citizens to know the context in which Professor Atlagic's words are spoken. He says – we are some hateful people, brother-killing, partisan and Chetian, Russian and American, star-and-partizan, red, black, yellow, would say a lot – you are nothing, but there are some oasis where a truce has been declared between us conflicted. And now look where those oasis are. I repeat, politics is no accident. Oasis are Yugoslavia, Sarajevo or whatever it takes. Why is it mentioned in Sarajevo? Do you think that's an accident? Because the mayor of Sarajevo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, should become Bogic Bogicevic, a man who received the Order from Stjepan Mesic in 2002, because in March 1991, although a Serb from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Ugljevik, refused to vote for the introduction of an emergency in the then Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, thereby preventing civil war, thousands and thousands of deaths, from Slovenia to Kosovo and Metohija. So you think this campaign is random against Mark Atlagic? No, I don't. What's going through this campaign like a red thread? What's going through the NIN? What is going through the N1, through "Today", through the statements by Dragan Dilas, Dragan Bjeloglic, Cedomir Petrovic, Jelisaveta Seka Sabljic, the journalist who interviewed her? Serbia and Serbs are to blame for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and are to suffer until the end of the day, together with Aleksandra Vukic, along with all of us who are trying to get Serbia out of the mud, out of the glib, into which Dragan Gilas and all of those members of the political, intellectual, cultural and other quasi elite that managed Serbia, grilled and burned by 2012. Mr. Atlagic, as my friend, as my party colleague, as a respected professor of the university, I would like to congratulate you on, above all, intellectual courage to say everything you said a few days ago. I would like to thank my young colleagues from the Legislative Group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", because they have completely exposed the media fear of Dragan Gilas, because he is a man who is not here in the National Assembly but manages with an absolute majority of printed and electronic media in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I repeat once again, I think it is a mistake, I think that the failure to attend today's session is not the presence of people from the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to respond to all that my colleagues and colleagues from the Parliament Group "Alexander Vukic – To our children" have said, but no matter what, we will vote for their approval of the financial plan. They'll have enough money. Whether they do their job or not, it's on them. But let no one doubt that every day SNS MPs will point to all the bad things that have been happening to us and that have been happening to Serbia, Serbian citizens under the authority of Dragan Gilas and under the authority of all those who today represent themselves as so-called. The intellectual and cultural elite, who lack nothing, who are well in Serbia and who are a hundred times richer than Marko Atlagic and all of us together.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1231	I thank Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Just to let you know that I've included your remaining time on behalf of the MP's group, so you haven't overstepped. I'd also like to just ask what you asked, I'm right, just like you asked, and I'm asking why these bodies aren't present, but the answer I got from the service and from the board president is that the Committee is actually a proposing, not these bodies, because it's financial plans and not a work report. That's the answer to what you asked as a question. But I also regret that they are not present, because we would certainly talk about their work. Since there are no more applications on the lists of elected Members, I am asking the heads of the parliamentary groups or representatives of the group or of the proposing representatives, do they want a word? Here you go, Alexandra Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1232	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, apparently today's debate has completed the picture of yesterday's political scene of Serbia operating today at the time of the pandemic, the coronary virus and in fact what is important in Serbia's media space today and how it should be as MPs and representatives of citizens that we also influence people who will be elected in front of these institutions, so that they can simply cope with certain changes that Serbia needs. We need changes precisely when it comes to these institutions, because it is obviously a great misunderstanding of what it is and what are the challenges that are happening in Serbia and in the world and what is the responsible policy that we have had to see, led both by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia and what is the behaviour of participants and in the media space that are the owners of some suspicious capital and outside the borders of this country and who abuse this status to be politically dealt with with by political inexperiences here in Serbia. We have had the opportunity to hear all MPs have their visions, you have had the opportunity to hear from the proposings in front of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds that it is necessary to give consent to their financial plans. You have had the opportunity to hear when we talk about freedom of the media how Serbia behaves responsibly on this subject, how it behaves, and when we talk about energy policy, when we talk about economic policy and values and what I think we actually showed today and with yesterday's debate that is that society needs dialogues, it is necessary to open up certain topics that have long been used to push under the carpet and that you cannot talk to people who have self-proclaimed themselves for certain sizes, not only when we talk about certain professors of the university because today it is very modern to criticise the government and Alexander Vukic, but because somewhere it has been forbidden to have a different opinion in society. Serbia has changed completely on this issue. It is simply political debate that leads to open, end-of-the-art public information, not just so-called. their means of informing N1, Nova S, "Today's" list, but also at other media houses, in which we have at all the opening of these issues and simply a complete picture of what the state policy of the Republic of Serbia is, what it is, is our obligation to our country, to our country, what it is that we consider to be values that Serbia's future should bear when it is not just a public word, not only that part of which concerns the issue of our education, our education, our right to say what we think, without being condemned in public, regardless of what position we are in this country, whether we represent certain institutions such as parliament or perhaps we represent certain political parties, whether it pleases certain citizens or not, that we are not put on a pillar of shame for the sake of personal opinion, as we have seen it now happening with our counterpart Atlagic. Serbia is a free country. Serbia is going through European integration, and in Europe and in European institutions, you are not responsible for this as a verbal delinquent, but you have the right to state in the best possible way what is your personal position. So today in Serbia, we have a completely different political situation than it was before 2012, and because we talk about these institutions today, that we support the financial plans of these institutions means that we strengthen these institutions. On the other hand, no one can forbid us to talk about these institutions, about their work in a way that we feel is that at this political moment something does not comply with what is a legal obligation and what we are being criticised for simply following some other rules, those rules that ruled until 2012. That is why I think it is very important that yesterday and today we have opened up a number of issues that we will discuss in the future, but we will not be silent when REM is silent about attacking the children of the president of Serbia, not only when the targets are being drawn on the president of Serbia, but also on the members of the same political party because they have a different opinion than individuals who are not allowed to go to Serbia's citizens with neither the programme nor the elections, because they know they will not get the support. Therefore, Serbia has changed and Serbia has changed today regardless of the challenges it faces, and therefore we feel that it is extremely responsible to support and give consent to today's financial plans, but that the topics we are opening on the human structures of these institutions, and soon we will obviously have proposals from the Committee on Culture when it comes to REM members, we will continue to debate extremely openly and honestly here in the National Assembly of Serbia and no one should bear any responsibility in terms of the verbal delinity that it should not say anything if it does not like individuals on certain televisions that are not even registered in the Republic of Serbia. This is why today we have had the opportunity to hear different opinions from both young people and my experienced colleagues, and that is why I think we have given some new value in political debate in Serbia, here in parliament, regardless of how we respect that there is no opposition because there are no representatives of the Gilas parties, there are some other party representatives and each of them has the right to express their opinions here in the plural. So it will be now and always because Serbian citizens choose who will sit in these benches. With that in the voting day, which will be soon, I call on you to adopt this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-12-02-0.u1233	Thank you. If no one ever hears from you again, I'm concluding a joint single search. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, December 2, 2020, starting at 17.40 p.m. as the Day of Vote on Points of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that 163 MPs are present in the hall and that there are therefore conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda - Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. I am putting the motion to the vote to conclude on the review of the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending on 10 November 2020. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 votes - 164 did not vote - eight. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - The report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2019 with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending on 10 November 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 votes - 168, did not vote - four. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. Third point - Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 January to 31 December 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, a Republic budget and a control of the spending of public funds. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Republic Commission on the protection of the right to public procurement procedures in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 10 November 2020. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 170, not two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. Fourth point - Annual Report by the Commission on Securities for 2019, with a proposal for the closure of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Annual Report of the Commission on Securities of Values for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 10 November 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. Fifth point - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2021. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Commission's Annual Report on Securities of Values for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending on 10 November 2020, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a decision by majority. The sixth point – Proposal for a decision to give consent to the changes and additions of the Commission's financial plan for values for 2020. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the changes and additions of the Commission's financial plan for values for 2020, in general. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a decision by majority. The seventh point – Proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2021. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body for 2021, in general. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a decision by majority. The eighth point - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Statute of the Commission for Securities of Values. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Statute of the Securities Commission as a whole. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 170, he did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a decision by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has carried out a review of all the points of the agenda of this session and a decision on them, before we conclude this session, I just want to inform you that, as you have seen, our next session is scheduled for next Tuesday at 1:00 p.m. with the topic of reviewing and adoption of budgets and follow-up laws. Consistent with Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Thank you. (The session is closed at 17.45 p.m. )
