ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70722	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the twenty-first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the past week you wanted to dig our eyes out when we talked about Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic's crime. Yesterday we saw that after this director who was taking bribes and I said he was taking it on behalf of Zorana Mihajlovic, the secretary of state was arrested. I'll remind you, in the system of our state administration, the Secretary of State is a pandan to the deputy minister. Now I don't understand, after eight years of ministry, after eight years of government in two ministries, after all the affairs and scandals, after insulting the friendly states, after publicly insulting the Serbian Orthodox Church, after all the criminal affairs, is the largest one with the "Bechtel" Moravski Corridor, when will we finally see that Zorana Mihajlovic has been arrested too? Because to hear how everyone around her is corrupt, how everyone takes bribes, everyone is in crime, and Mrs. Mihajlovic, who is the elder of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic, knows nothing about it. Is that possible? Is that normal and does anyone believe that? So it is clear that everything is done without a tender at the Ministry of Construction, that there are a lot of criminal affairs involved in Zorana Mihajlovic. Don't just listen to stories about how it could have happened without her knowledge, because nothing can happen at the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure, without the signing of the minister, or without the signature of Zorana Mihajlovic. So instead of arresting those collaterals, those co-workers, her employees, let's arrest Zorana Mihajlovic. Does anyone have any more responsibility? And, of course, to explore everything that's been going on there, for eight years, that's a big time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you that more than a month has passed since the adoption of a non-civilization, unconstitutional law on freedom of religion in Montenegro, which has fuelled tensions there, that more than 200,000 people across Montenegro have been showing dissatisfaction with the current situation, and the Republic of Serbia has been doing nothing for more than a month, looking on the side. Our officials and official Belgrade have absolutely done nothing. The Serbian Radical Party is calling for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the foreign ministry to request an urgent UN Security Council meeting to discuss the issue, the position of the Serb people in Montenegro. So, we saw that the Serbian nation is being made a Montenegrin nation, out of Serbian, Montenegrin language, but this drop that spilled the glass is when it should be made of the Serbian Orthodox Church by the Montenegrin Orthodox Church. Mil Djukanovic's regime, a criminal, mafia, treasonous regime that shows impatience towards Serbs. The latest case is the arrest of a 70-year-old woman, a mother, one of the prominent Serbian leaders in Montenegro, Milan Knezevic. This shows you that Milo Djukanovic's regime lost its compass. They don't know what they're doing anymore, and all the Serbs in Montenegro are at risk. They want to spend quiet ethical cleaning so that Serbs officially disappear from Montenegro. The government of the Republic of Serbia must take all measures and the first of them is to alert the international public and discuss the UN Security Council on the issue of the status of the Serbian people in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70724	Thank you. Would any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, like to request a notice or an explanation? The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70725	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I want today as part of the right to ask parliamentary questions to ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. I'm asking if this ministry has taken the necessary measures to issue a single Bucharest for all children of Serbian origin who learn Serbian language anywhere to live? I am asking this precisely because several times in the Committee on Diaspora of the National Assembly sessions this issue was present whenever there were representatives of our people living in other countries. This, by the way, this ministry is familiar. It has always been repeated that parts of the Serbian people living in other countries are hard to live, that they do not have the right to their own language, to write, and that their children at school do not have the opportunity to learn Serbian language and to learn Cyrillic, and it is believed that it would be very important to create a single Serbian Bucharest in Serbia, which would be valid and accessible to all regardless of where the children live and whether it is America, Australia, the countries of Europe, and especially in the surrounding countries. We see here that, in any case, a large number of members of the Serb people living in other countries are newly formed after the collapse of the common state, and they do not have basic democratic rights such as language, letter, and now we see even faith. I remind you that this issue was also discussed by President Aleksandar Vukic, for example, half last year, after talking to the bishops about Kosovo and Metohija, when he said it was important to respect each other, to respect and understand our differences well, to work in the best interests of the people on the need for a single Bucharest for the whole ethnic space, but also, by respecting others. Also, President Vukic recently visited Mrkonjic City and Drvar in the Federation of BiH, where towns with the majority Serb population, and without the right to keep their identity on it, to work and work, he said -- we help everywhere. That's never been the case before, which is big, of course, the truth and it's important to underline. He also said – even though we live in different countries, we know that we belong to the same people. I think that particular background must also be published, that is, the existence of such a unique Serbian Bucharest. That's why he said it - we must fight together to preserve our own identity, unity, our own language, our letters, and our faith. The unique national policy of President Vukic and President Dacic has today created a stable economic and diplomatically stronger Serbia, which, since the collapse of the common state, is for the first time in a situation to fight for the preservation of life, the identity of the entire Serbian people. In all this, we point out that this new barrel should be digitized in any case. Namely, to be printed and published in electronic form, because in such a way it is easily accessible to everyone, of course, that it is interactive, which is for today's young generation of special importance, flexible and easily complementary, not to be printed on tons of paper that remain undivided, where books remain prohibited. I will point out that, unfortunately, the entry of the Serbian book into KIM has long been a ban at the border, that there is no monopoly and the interests of the publisher. We believe that this is a unique national project and a major venture that should include the Serbian Academy of Sciences and the Mother of Serbs and all other relevant institutions that are currently working on the purity and proper use of Serbian language and letters and their rules. That is why I believe that, first of all, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is responsible for joining this business as soon as possible and ensuring the existence of a unique Serbian Bucharest, because this is how we accomplish, through the work of this ministry, the policy led by the highest peak of the state and President Vukic and President Dacic. This kind of policy should in any case continue to have in this sense full of our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70726	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask a question about the conflict between the SBB, or United Media, United Group and Telecom, or what the government will do to protect the interest of the state-owned company as a shareholder and which, in contrast to the SBB, will finance sports in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. as the strongest Serbian clubs, are several times sponsors of Serbian teams that bring medals from major competitions. This is not done by the SBB, the United Group, and they mainly serve to pump money, pump money, and that Solak has two or three planes, a Falcon or what it is called, worth over tens of millions of euros, or worth over 100m euros. In fact, for almost a year, we have warned here some colleagues and I about the relationship between Schools, SBBs, United Media and United Groups towards domestic media. So, the group owns 20 fake cross-border channels, including N1, "New S", sports clubs, and so on, which allegedly re-emission the programme in Serbia and as the law says - the provider of a media service re-emissioning the programme on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the provision of the European Convention on Transboundary Television does not have to register, and the cross-border convention and the Law on Electronic Media says that re-emission marks the act of taking over at the same time, regardless of the use of technical means, complete, undisclosed television programmes broadcast by a broadcasting organisation and intended for the general public. These TV channels don't broadcast a program anywhere. So neither is it possible to re-emitting it in Serbia. It is produced in Serbia and broadcast in Serbia, avoiding payment to RATEL, REM, Sokoya and other copyright agencies that provide copyright respect. So, on the one hand, SBB, which had 54% of the market versus Telecom, which had 30%, is now a little balanced, so the SBB, or United Group, has 48%, and Telecom has drawn close to 42%, and it's probably Solakov and Gilas's business that came into question, and these poor people, this labor force that's at war for School planes and Gilas' businesses, are just a physical workforce, a service that needs some protests to perpetuate these businesses. The latest attack is on Telecom, since there is no profit as much as there is, and now N1 television, which is not registered, foreign, Luxembourg TV, is demanding to be broadcast in Telecom, or by a cable operator owned by Telecom, in exchange for 40 euro cents per user. Since Telecom has over 800,000 users, the N1 television requires them to be paid four million euros to broadcast a N1 television programme that has self-exclusived from Telecom cables, so they self-exclusive, and now demand that they have 40 euro cents for the new contract. In doing so, SBB, let's say, "Hepi" television, which is 15 times more than it, pays nothing, zero, but therefore requires the users of the "Telecom" service, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to pay N1 television 40 euros. If they saw 150 channels, which are the least broadcast by Telecom, this means that the subscription should be 60 euros a month to satisfy the appetites of Jugoslav Cosic, Dragan Solak and Dragan Djilas. Mr. Cosic has a salary of 475,000 dinars. He doesn't get that salary from America. The salary is paid by SBB users, and I guess now it would double the salary and that the "Telecoma" users also pay for services they don't see. No one's watching N1 TV. If he allegedly doesn't let "Telecom" N1 into the cabal, or they have banned themselves, in this case, Yugoslavia's Ćosic, which is financed by Baškam Oil, the leader of the tropoic Albanian mafia, will declare that there are censorships in Serbia. Such blackmail the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a shareholder of Telecom, should not, in my opinion, suffer, and should not, under that blackmail, bow down. That is why my question – what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about unregistered N1 television that has grown into an unregistered political party whose leaders are Dragan Djilas, Dragan Solak and Jugoslav Cosic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70728	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives, want to make a request? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70729	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know that there are two Dragan Gilas. One Dragan Gilas behind the Alliance for Serbia and who stands for a boycott of the upcoming elections and another Dragan Gilas, who stands behind the organisation "One of five million" and who will go to the polls. Today, it is clear to everyone in Serbia that the idea of the famous movement no longer exists, that Gilas will not boycott the elections. What's most important is that Gilas managed to fool the entire Alliance for Serbia, and the DS, and the Vuk Jeremic party, and Dvori, and Sergei Trifunovic, and Lutovac and all others managed to fool everyone. So for months he lied to them, persuaded them to boycott the election, and then pulled out of his youth's sleeve from "One of the Five Million" and decided to show up in the election that way. I don't know if you've heard of bifurcation or divorce. It's a phenomenon for you when one river breaks into two separate plums. That is exactly what Dragan Gilas is doing and he has succeeded something that has so far been unrecorded in political history. So, with one political option, man advocates a boycott of the election, and at the same time with the other political option comes to the same election, probably prompted by the announcement of a reduction in the censorship to 3%, so he probably thinks that now he has a chance and if someone in Serbia had a clue as to whether "One of the five million" Gilas project was explained the other day when one of the activists in his visitation was performing a folder just outside Gilas's party. Here's what it looks like. It is an activist of the movement with the SPP folder, namely the Freedom and Justice Party and Gilas' party, which confirmed what we of the SNS have been saying for months that it is not any independent students, but that it is the youth of Gilas. After all, it was known that Gilas financed these protests, their activities, that he gave them all logistics, trucks, sound, and everything else in that sense. Now that the fraud of Gilas has been exposed, it will be interesting to see the other reactions of the Alliance for Serbia. It will be interesting how Djilas will explain to Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Lutovac, Sergey Trifunovic, Zelenovic and all others -- how we are boycotting the elections, while at the same time going to the same elections, and it will be particularly interesting how Djilas will explain to the parties of the Alliance for Serbia how these parties will finance themselves, which will not be parliamentary because of the boycott, so they will not be able to count on budget funds. He's probably gonna lie to them that he's gonna give them money the way he's lied to them so far. It is known, therefore, that parliamentary parties receive funds from the budget by law, so the question is raised - how will Lutovac and Jeremic and Sergei Trifunovic and everyone else be financed? Although I don't have to worry about Vuk Jeremic. There's going to be a new Patrick Ho. There will already be some foreign embassy showing up to give him money. Again, Lutovac will probably be on Gilas' payroll. After all, he bought the whole party from before and probably the ultimate idea that Gilas was actually buying all those parties and being the big boss in the whole story. Anyway, it'll be interesting to watch that whole circus, as it was interesting and watch this rally a few days ago in the House of Unions. Watch out, twenty parties and movements together, and they've managed to fill the House of Unions, which only receives a little more than 1,000 people. In particular, the chairman, I would like to appeal to the members of the activist, and I end up with that, SNS officials. These elections will be very difficult and we must not relax for one second and we must not fall for that story that part of the opposition will boycott the elections, because it will not. It is now clear that Gilas will not boycott the election and that he will go to the election. So we're dealing with various tycoons who have a lot of money, who have earned robbing Serbia and all that money, all that money will be used in this campaign against Alexander Vukic of the SNS. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70730	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70731	Thank you. The government of the so-called so-called government was formed in Pristina yesterday. The republic of Kosovo with the new prime minister Kurti and who, both with the government's composition and with his speech when the government is represented, actually by who knows which time he humiliated the state of Serbia and created one situation that almost prevents any serious communication with the government yesterday. As far as I know, the international community has serious expectations from the government and from dialogue that Belgrade, or the Serbian government, should lead with the new government in Pristina. It's basically okay. We need to talk, but we don't need to teach in advance. The way that Mr. Kurti, if this gentleman here is appropriate in any way, has set up that scale, as he has set up in his statements before, but here now after the election and during the election for Prime Minister, and we would say the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, is such that it effectively disables any dialogue under equal conditions. So I ask the Prime Minister, the foreign minister and the head of the KIM office -- how do they imagine the talks and how do they think it is possible to hold talks with that institution in Pristina and with those personalities when I repeat this and stress it for a public who may not have heard it enough, although it was announced, because the defence minister in that government, in this Kurti government, was a man who was convicted, legally convicted of a war crime against the soldiers of the Yugoslav Army and not even in 1999 during the bombing, although it would not essentially change it, but even in 1998 before the official beginning of the war acts, a man who is a terrorist by all criteria, not only our own but also the international ones who were valid at the time? So, he is officially appointed defence minister, or armed forces in the new government, and Albin Kurti himself announces a request for war damage and genocide suit against the Republic of Serbia. So it's clear that you need to talk to those you're going to talk to. That's one thing and that's understandable, but I mean that here in the beginning is a whole scene that even sitting at a table with such personalities, regardless of how Albin Kurti doesn't have blood on his hands, he simply couldn't, he didn't get it, he didn't get it because he was in jail at that time, at the time of these fights and the conflict on KIM, but who's been trying all his statements and stories about the great Albania, to this point, I'm stressing out, charges for genocide and requests war damage from Belgrade to put up a war criminal convicted, convicted, convicted war criminal, disqualified himself. Unfortunately, I think there is at least a lack of reaction, at least a letter and an appeal to our authorities to the relevant international institutions, if nothing else, aside from not celebrating some time and opposition by immediately welcoming that choice of Kurti as if I didn't know Nelson Mendela had been set up, chosen, or as if they had chosen for this place. That's another thing now. Responsibility is always in power when something good happens and when it's bad. In this case, it is bad and I think there should be a reaction, the official reaction of the Serbian state to what was happening yesterday in Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70732	I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs – Vladimir Marinkovic, Borisav Kovacevic, Milisav Petronijevic, Zarko Obradovic. We continue the search on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security according to the order of application for word. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70733	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before us today is a proposal for authentic interpretation of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security. First of all, I have to say that for the SNS and for the policy implemented by the SNS, equal access to justice and justice is one of the top policy priorities that we have been carrying out every day since 2012. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 48(6) The law on enforcement and security stemmed from the need to level the practice of the executioner, with regard to the powers of lawyers in the procedures for the collection of court costs and costs in the enforcement proceedings. Namely, the proposal for the authentic interpretation of this member of the law proposes that the power of attorney for the collection of judicial costs and the costs of execution is not required except in those cases where it is strictly prescribed and where it is in accordance with the documents brought by the courts, means, in accordance with the decisions and judgments which the courts make and those decisions and judgments are legal, enforceable, and only from courts come to court. In addition, the aim of the proposal for authentic interpretation of this member of the law, the removal of difficulties in interpreting this member of the law and equating practices, is certainly the aim of this bill to preserve that relationship, above all the trust, which the client, the trustee, is building with his lawyer from the very beginning of the trial, to the procedure of enforcement and security, and also in accordance with the basic principles of the work of lawyers, which are the principle of professionalism and of course the principle of confidentiality, i.e. professional secrecy. Also, I would like to point out that when it comes to the law on enforcement and security, that yellow tycoons are at the time of their government's exercise, there are about two million cases in courts that have not been carried out. So, there have been judicial and executive judgments, but these cases have not been carried out. For the SNS party, the exact same legal position has both creditors and debtors. They must and should have the same relationship and use and have the same legal means available to them. Of course, by coming to power, the number of executives has been reduced to 600,000. It is still large, especially a large number of cases that are over 10 years old, about 200,000 of them, and it is one of the priorities of the government and the resolution ministry, and it is also a large number of cases from 350 thousand executive cases up to 10 years old. However, I must point out that a yellow tycoon company headed by Dragan Djilas, headed by Vuk Jeremic, led by Boris Tadic, has committed a massacre in both the economy and the massacre of judicial institutions, i.e. the massacre of courts. In 2009, they left 1,100 judges and prosecutors without a job. Completely against the law and against the constitution, because for the yellow tycoons and robbers who robbed this country and citizens by 100 billion euros, they meant nothing to the laws, or the Constitution, in that sense, that they trampled through them. Of course, the Constitutional Court has returned both judges and prosecutors to their jobs, but the irresponsibility of the yellow tycoon company has cost this country and the citizens 17m euros. They were not interested in money for which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were damaged, they were only interested in how many million euros would fill their own pockets. By exercising power, Dragan Gilas managed to fill his private pockets with 619m euros, kidnapping and robbing from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Apart from illegally firing judges and public prosecutors, they have, of course, unlawfully passed the Law on Planning and Construction and Article 103 of that Law, which was later declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, but under the law, many tycoons who actually made laws, and politicians such as Djilas, Jeremic, and those laws only voted in the National Assembly, have damaged the state by millions of euros, by coming to construction land and switching to private property for large or quite small amounts. Also, the yellow tycoon enterprise has made the availability of justice to an ordinary man and citizen so far away, that from 138 municipal courts they have brought down to 34 basic courts. There was only one basic court in the southern district of 607,000 inhabitants and that basic court in Novi Sad. In Belgrade, which had nine municipal courts, they brought down two basic courts. Of course, by the arrival of the SNS, Mr. Nikola Selakovic was then justice minister, the network of courts was repaired, so of the 34 basic courts that this yellow tycoon company left behind, we now have 66 basic courts. Instead of 54 basic prosecutions, we have 58 and of course we still have to work on the network of courts, because the availability of justice, the proximity of judicial units, is something that is certainly in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And not only that, except for the robbery, the yellow tycoon company, and the employees of the judiciary in the worst possible way through their union organization and organising various celebrations at the Hotel Đerdap in Kladovo in 2011 the bodies of naked girls were served food. It's devastating to every female human being. This is the worst possible form of violence, because violence is not only beating and physically punishing, but this is also the most severe form of violence. Today's violence continued to plague the yellow tycoon company, led by Dragan Gilas as the chief financialist of political so-called. opposition parties, in the harshest possible way possible, and by doing so here in the National Assembly, on the president of the National Assembly, on the head of the parliamentary group of Mr. Alexander Martinovic, in the most cruel way possible by drawing a target on the chest of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, in the most harshest way possible by burning books on the Republic Square, threatening all those who do not think the same way they do. That is no wonder, because when Dragan Djilas came down from power in 2014, there was a picture of Drago Jovanovic, a German occupier, the founder of the Banjska camp, who participated in the detachment, shooting and torture of Serbs, Jews and Roma. About Bosko Obradovic, as a follower of Ljotić's politics, is too much to talk about, because he is the successor of that politics of Ljotić, which in Kragujevac, in Šmarice took students at the time of the German occupation, seven thousand students for shooting. Of course, all this time since 2012, SNS has been fighting for a decent, advanced, economically strong, responsible country in which every citizen will live better, both economically and in terms of the availability of justice. Because justice and the right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia are essential as dried bread. That's why citizens in the election shouldn't have a dilemma. The only policy that is the policy of life, the policy of progress, is the policy that Alexander Vukic implements and realises both, of course, the SNS. That policy has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70734	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the proposal to adopt authentic interpretation in the way that it is explained by the promoter. With all the reasons that have already been presented during the debate we had yesterday and today, I want to say that it is particularly important that this interpretation is potentially, and I am sure in practice and definitely, we are reducing costs for the citizens themselves. It's never an aspect of neglect. A lot could be heard, and we talked about it quite loudly when we touched the subject - the perpetrators, and it was inevitable to talk about it too. It doesn't make any sense that this question is being burdened in any way by us, by those who are the same, who are trying to transfer to us, here yesterday, that we are and indeed are, we who have limited certain injustices that existed in connection with this area, that, therefore, we who at this very moment have corrected different aspects of the principles of execution. So, and when it comes to limiting those most serious actions against people whose debts are small and who are related to various municipal services, we are changing the law of these phenomena eliminated. Also, we are those fees, compensations that were thought to have been disproportionately high. We've been fixing these things, and those who want to say it's a great shame, but they can't say it in an understandable way, because they know it's not true and it's not true, but they're trying to say that it's a great shame that we have as a topic, they forget that since 2011, as a topic we haven't established, because of course we weren't able to do it. After all, do they fight with each other these days, they catch Dragan Djilas and Jovo Bakic for their throats, because Jovo Bakic says that Djilas himself is guilty that the perpetrators were introduced in 2011. Do we have to remind you that they're right both when they're talking about who's guilty of what in this country, because it's the fault of everyone who belonged to the former regime that it's really hard to count everything and it's really hard to exaggerate when you say they did something wrong as bad as it was? So they're different things that aren't good for this country, they couldn't put them the right way. We've fixed a lot of things, so between us and this area, we've done it. When it comes to all the other issues that we've touched, of course, it's inevitable to talk about the judiciary somewhat wider, when we're talking about the matter of a lawyer, as far as the judges are concerned. It's a shame they won't listen to those who talk about it most often, but the judiciary today in Serbia, we have to say, is a subject full of controversy and we are facing paradoxical situations. People who are able to lie openly, openly slander other people, are able to make the worst, most monstrous accusations, and then run away from addressing competent institutions that would certainly be judicial and ask them to make a proper conclusion or an appropriate epilogue for their claims and their accusations. How many attempts have we made to pump up any false affairs heard by members of the former regime, by Dragan Gilas himself, by Vuk Jeremic himself, of which any remnants of the yellow company, DS and its branches and branches, as much as of their marines, as of any Alexic. And whenever you ask these people, well, are you able to turn to the D.A., to give evidence, if you claim to have them, what do they answer? Oh, no, we don't want to deal with it, that's what the D.A.'s gonna do just fine. Of course, they avoided establishing a factual state and obtaining the institution's proper conclusion. For example, Alexic repeated so many times the most banal lies related to the agricultural welfare of "Jovanja" and so many times refused to go to the prosecution nicely with his knowledge, politely, as a civilized man should do. The moment we SNS initiated the procedure to determine whether what Alexic was saying or lying, although it was clear to everyone in Serbia that it was a lie, but here, let the institutions say. What happened? Stuck like Damian's Zelenko - you mustn't report it, you mustn't ask for it to be investigated, because they are false allegations. He admitted that his stories were all fiction and false allegations. But, of course, when the procedure begins in front of a certain state authority, it must experience some conclusion and conclusion. The prosecution of organised crime concluded – it is a lie that anyone with that agricultural good for marijuana or I don't know what, called either Alexander Vukic, either his brother or anyone from their family. The D.A. concluded that it was a lie and said it was a point. You know how he figured it out? By doing exactly what Alexic was yelling at all the time – artificial phones, artificial apps. That's what when you look at the explanation, these people did, looked at the phones, looked at all the calls, looked at all the apps and answered – you lied, son, there's nothing. Now, you think there's some responsibility on the other side? You think there's any human dignity to say that I'm wrong? No, it goes on and on and on – no, no, I didn't do anything wrong, but one day it will prove itself. Equally unserious, equally irresponsible, equally pointless and ridiculous, as his friend Marinika Tepic said that the Morovic Military Institute has some marijuana again. Turns out what? Found black on white, no marijuana there, but chickens there. It's been found to be there. It has also been established that these chickens are carrying eggs for Marinika Tepic, Aleksic, their bosses Đilas and Jeremic are absolutely unacceptable, but those chickens are the only tenants, so to speak, of the good ones and the eggs. You think it was humanity, that it was the cheek to say on the side of those who completely insane accusations without blinking, there came at least one thing - I apologize, it's a mistake, I don't know what was wrong with me, I was lied to by those who told me to say it? Of course not, but it's the only reaction – no, I'm right, you'll all see one day I'll prove it. That nonsense is to be faced every day, but literally every day by who knows how many times a day, all our society, all the political actors who don't want to serve these bastards, who don't want to lie, who don't want to cheat and slander other people, but it looks like they have to and the judiciary. So people who are proven liars, who deny themselves, declare themselves liars, try to make all our minds salt and pretend like nothing ever happened. The same people, and that's important for the prosecution, and that's why I'm talking about it, they've introduced, in front of that crazy rule that there's no responsibility for a publicly spoken word, that you can lie whatever you want, and that's a crazy rule that can only be made if it's at the expense of Alexander Vukic, members of his family, members of the Serbian government or other political representatives of the SNS. The same ones who paraded through the terraces wearing gallows, who talked about those hangers for Alexander Vukic, who said that they were hangings for Anna Brnabić, continue, there is no end, there is no point to be placed and said – now let's do something smart to deal with, but keep going, and now they say – and to add Vukic, Minister Djordjevic, Minister Vulin and Anna Brnabić, and then wave to the gallows again and show them again. The same guys, Gilas fascists who had already done it, because they never had enough, like they didn't enough when they were breaking into the RTS, breaking down the front door, threatening journalists, threatening to break the program, not knowing what to do, destroying public good, but also private property for many people. They also tried to whitewash Serbia's presidency and the RTS and Serbian presidency, the bottles being shot at by police, commanded by Bosko Obradovic Ljoticevic to step on the police in that van. The same ones who were then trying to demolize that institution in this country came a month or two later in front of the National Assembly, so all the same thing here to do, to break down the front door. Remember how sweetly they cried out: break it down, then set the congregation on fire, and burn it all. So, these people, as you can see, have a pattern of the insidious, violent behavior that repeats from day to day, from week to week, and that's the things he has to deal with, over which justice has to be asked. That's why we're talking about these things. If that wasn't the end, they said themselves. So, if you followed that sad gathering that was organized last Saturday at the Comanc Hall in the O.R. which, of course, couldn't be the climbs because those supporters don't have as much as for a fair bus. These men continued with threats, dangerous threats. They said literally the following -- they do not recognise the next elections, which would, of course, be their problem, if they hadn't added the following -- that by all means, they would have said they were fighting the institutions that were formed after these elections. What does it mean by all means? So, by the way, it's violent. Otherwise it wouldn't be all of them. Right? It wouldn't have been complete. Sam Aleksic, this liar who lied about Alexander Vukic, his brother and other members of the Vukic family said and not once – they will prevent, physically, people from voting in this spring's election. Their Bastac, the one who has already been celebrated as a peaceful man, pulling plastic bags on the head of their godfathers, when they were trying to cut it short for the racquetarian money they shared together, therefore, a wonderful, peaceful man. You're right, all of you who noticed. An obvious link between crimes on the Belgrade streets and their springs from neighbouring Montenegro. This man when he says - I will physically prevent any authority from being formed in this municipality that I am shaking today after the next elections. It's serious stuff, it's serious threats. For this reason, they must be asked about the judiciary, they must be asked about it by the authorities, but they should be aware of that by the citizens of Serbia and by everyone who deals with politics in Serbia. This country needs to ensure peace, ensure stability, ensure all preconditions for further economic development and progress. We have raised the average salaries significantly and agreed, we will, we will work together to raise them even more, to achieve the "Serbia 2025" plan, the plan presented by Aleksandar Vukic, to achieve the average incomes to be measured, so why not, with about 900 euros on average, to reach the salaries that will be at that level, pensions that will be significantly better than today, although again improved than several years ago, so that they are measured at 400, 430 euros on average. We can do that, with that growth that we're providing right now and that we're going to have in years ahead of us. With that infrastructure development that we're showing today by building corridors, factories and we're sure to continue in the years ahead, we can do it. So that, therefore, peace, stability, first of all, mind to the head, respect for other people, other people's rights and love for Serbia. It means everything opposite of hate, all the opposite of destruction, all the opposite of the complete devastation of everything that exists. So that the tycoons, the thieves of the former regime, can recharge their own pockets. There are no dilemmas. In this session, we will finish our work, among other things, by adopting those laws that provide fair conditions for all who want to compete civilised and democratically in politics, all that will ensure that what is like this interpretation is better for our citizens when they do things that are of their own interest. We will show by our behaviour that Serbia is so drastically different, so much better than it was at the time of the tycoon-hob enterprise that the process is irrevocable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70736	Since no word has been reported on the list of MPs' groups. Before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want to do so. Rules of Procedure. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70737	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we discussed yesterday an authentic interpretation of a provision of the Law on Enforcement and Security, but also of this law in general. I just briefly want to close the debate and repeat why it is good to give an interpretation of how it stands in the proposal. The enforcement and security system will be more efficient, the dilemmas that exist in the practical application of this law will be removed and the level of legal certainty will be improved, the client's responsibility towards the lawyer and the lawyer will be strengthened. What they agreed on by lawyers and parties, or their clients, is their relationship with trust and professionalism in which no one should interfere, and this will also remove the normative influence on this relationship. Lawyership is a profession, a profession that deserves respect. Lawyers deserve to be paid for their work and there is no doubt about it in any particular case. Yesterday, I also cited concrete examples from practices that show that the adoption of this authentic interpretation will also reduce the costs for the parties, during the power of attorney or some submissions that would come at the end of the enforcement process. Finally, I just want to thank you for yesterday's constructive debate and to invite the MPs to adopt the proposal in the voting day and to bring authentic interpretations as set out in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70738	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Gjorge Komlenski, the proposed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70739	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it's been a pleasure not to hear a single serious argument for these two days that would support the non-proposal and adoption of this kind of authentic interpretation. I am pleased that my colleagues have understood, overcome, even in some part of their own personal party interests, and I expect that we will indeed support the adoption of this authentic interpretation by everyone in this room. I won't be long, yesterday I've talked enough and I'll remind all the distinguished colleagues that this is one, perhaps, good moment for some future period to listen a little more to what law enforcement is, when it comes to judicial laws, think about them, because yet it is most likely that from one practical angle from that point of view that is important for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to think what is good and what certain changes of law that come into the agenda can and what is behind it, as a problem can be expected. Of course, aside from the energy that fellow lawyers have invested in order for this authentic interpretation to be found on the agenda today, of course this proposal to be articulated in this way by Mr Martinovic, even though the Committee on Constitutional and Question and Legislative Affairs is a formal promoter, as such is our Rules of Procedure. Of course, the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia means a lot, because their support for such authentic interpretation, and I believe that the merits of this being accepted in this way by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been understood exclusively by the Minister of Justice, Mrs Nelli Kuborovic. I'm not really going to go into praises for anyone here, but this just had to be noted and this should be a good basis for some future work. Yesterday we talked about various things that await us or that will expect colleagues who are in a new assembly after the April elections. The judiciary as a system and as a pillar of power in the Republic of Serbia must get more attention. Indeed, good analyses must be done, which after these ten years have brought to us the institutions of trust in public authority with individuals, such as the introduction of public enforcement and notaries, to assess and assess the results and effects of all of this, what has been brought to us and what we have lost with the introduction of a prosecutor's investigation institute, whether the network of courts that we currently have in the Republic of Serbia is good enough that justice is available in an easy and appropriate manner to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, whether the Republic of Serbia is present in each environment through courts and public prosecutors in an appropriate manner. And is this not only the territorial layout of courts, but also the practical organisational system, where we have basic, higher, appeals, Supreme and Cassation Courts, something that is appropriate and that has produced good results after these ten years? Should we reconsider the new network of courts? Of course, these are all serious and difficult issues, and these may be issues that take more than four years to bring them into place, because none of the only mistakes can be made, no wrong step, so that what has been well done for these eight years in the corrections of the catastrophic reform of the judiciary they used to play with before us, can be resolved in the shortest time period and that Serbian citizens really have confidence in the judicial system and that the judicial system is working in the way that the Constitution and prescribed it. I thank you all for all the suggestions that have been given in this broad debate. Of course, I expect that there will be guidelines for the work of the future parliament in the coming period, but we will not go so far and wide. I will only invite you at this moment to adopt this authentic interpretation as a small step, but very, very important, and a step that is exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70740	Thank you. Since there is no one left to speak of on the lists, and no one appears in accordance with Article 96 to exercise their right, I am concluding a search into the proposal for authentic interpretation. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, 4 February 2020, starting at 11.20 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the twenty-first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-04-0.u70741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda point, I ask you to establish a quorum. Please insert your cards once more into the MPs' units. I'm convinced there are more than 127 of us. This is impossible. I mean, you can see it physically. Please insert one more time or check everyone on the screen for... Let's check it out one more time, even though we have a quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48(6). The law on enforcement and security (the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia) No. 106/15, 106/16 – authentic interpretation, 113/17 – authentic interpretation and 54/19), in general. I conclude the vote: for - 128, against - no one, abstentioned - one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
