ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that 104 MPs attend the sittings. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 194 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88. 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation. To make it simple, it's about MPs' questions. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u449	Thank you, National Assembly President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing the campaign, and I would rather say true hysteria, which in recent days is being led against Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic on various tycoon media, both electronically and in print, then on various Internet portals, as well as on their social networks. It is nothing new on Serbia's political scene, but something that lasts for years, but recently simply competes in bizarreness, morbidity and desperate attempts to take advantage of everyone, but every possible opportunity and topic to attack Alexander Vukic and his family. The campaign is dominated by a number of media under Gilas' control, "N1", "New", "New Max Adria", "Today", "Nin", "Time", "The Week", then various obscure portals, such as the "Direct", and especially by various desks, cyns, screams, which serve nothing but for the campaign – hit the Vucica, everywhere and in every place, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They even used the funeral of the Metropolitan Amphilochy to attack the Wolf, just because he showed respect and went to the funeral. Imagine, he dared, dared to go to a funeral. So they literally attack him just because he exists because if he hadn't gone to the funeral, they'd have attacked him why he hadn't gone to the funeral. To what extent are the best speeches and tweets of Sergei Trifunovic, which are the most easily alluded to the death of Aleksandr Vukic. Here's what it looks like, that citizens have a chance to see. So, in an article published, where it is said, it would be good for Vukic to speak at the funeral of Amphilochy. Well, some lunatic wrote about it – and it would have been even better if Amphilochy had spoken at the funeral of the Wolf. And to this, Sergei Trifunović writes: So he agrees with it, he wishes it, he supports it. Chairman, I am now not going to enter into whether Sergei Trifunovic may have been influenced by some means, perhaps under the influence of some substances, right. It probably is, but it doesn't justify him writing these things. Imagine the extent to which this disease is going. Imagine the extent to which the obsession goes, the extent to which hatred goes. No word to say, no one to condemn. It's not a theme for "N1" television. Imagine, my friends, if someone from SNS had done something like this, they wouldn't have let us live. This would be the main theme for weeks on "N1", they would make reports, make special shows, make round tables. For days, they'd be dragging all their experts and smart-asss to talk about their rights, how they're threatened, how we're drawing targets on their foreheads, how we live in dictatorship, etc. Therefore, when the death of Alexander Vukic is desired, that is what he can do. It's legitimate, it's democratic, it can do anything. Remember how many times the Serbian president's family has been attacked so far. Remember how they chased Daniel for weeks and months. Remember what they wrote about Andre Wolfie. Remember, they threatened even the youngest son, so a child of only a few years, well, they threatened him, too. Remember how many times they tried to criminalize the entire family of Alexander Vukic, in every way to try to bring them into contact with some tycoons. Here's a picture that talks about it. So this is "New S", and they've brought some experts here to analyze something, and up goes a picture of the entire Vukic family together with various tycoons, to try to get them connected somehow. They just forgot to mention the main and biggest tycoon in Serbia, the one that earned 619m euros in a suspicious way, and never answered the question how, my friend, you earned 619m euros in a short time when you came to Serbia with 25,000 euros. So I ask the question of the Ministry of Culture and Public Information, as well as the Council of REM, will they take any steps to protect against the media link and the persecution of all those who are not willing to fake elites, all those who dare to think otherwise, all those whose policy differs from the politics of Dragan Gilas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u450	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u451	Thank you, esteemed president. Yesterday, a very important Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the fight against Kovid-19 was signed between Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister or Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, prime ministers of Albania and Northern Macedonia, as well as the health ministers of our three countries, participated in the conference "mini Schengen" through a video link. The pandemic of the coronary virus that hit the whole world has caused the greatest consequences for mankind, I would say, since World War II with the coronary virus. Life on the entire planet has almost stopped, everything has changed, the economic and social consequences of the crown will only be seen in the period ahead of us. As far as Serbia is concerned, since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Crisis Headquarters, the entire health system has so far taken all the necessary measures to combat, mitigate the consequences of this pandemic, we will talk about this among other things, today and during the next days, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Budget Law, but also when it comes to the next session where we will have a law on the protection of the population. It is very important to create one additional closer and continuous co-operation, I would say, between our countries, because health and disease do not know national and national differences or borders. We thus create one trust and help one another. Also announced was the formation during yesterday's signing of the Memorandum, a special team was announced to be formed to deal with this issue and to form a joint secretariat. Today I would take the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ani Brnabic – in the context of the importance of this form of international co-operation on the prevention of Kovid-19 and all other infectious diseases, which is also the subject of yesterday's Memorandum, is planning to expand this type of co-operation with other countries of the region, which would be of great importance and the general benefit of all countries, precisely because of the fact that this disease, unfortunately, does not know the borders. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u452	Thank you. I no longer have a registered president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups here. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right to request notices and explanations from different state bodies and at the session of the Assembly itself orally in a single address for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, and before moving to a further debate. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would just like to remind you of your obligation to report all MPs who have been prevented from attending, since we here in the service currently have no one who has signed up to be prevented from attending the session, and 205 is present. I would also ask you, because of this difference that I initially read from those that were entered, which was 104 at the entrance to the building, up to 206, how many there are now, to respect these obligations that you have, because they are important to you, because of regulation, among other things, and everything you have the right to do as MPs of the people. So, you sign up if you're prevented from attending, and you sign up on your way into the building that you've come to the meeting. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, the first session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, and the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes set out in Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, held on 3 August and 22 October 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: vote – 207, in favour – 196, was not voted by -11 MPs. I find that most votes were adopted by the National Assembly by the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, held on 24 and 26 October 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: vote – 209, in favour – 197, did not vote – 12 MPs. I find that most votes were adopted by the National Assembly by the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I am voting on the minutes of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, held on 28 October 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: the vote – 209, in favour – 198, did not vote – 11 MPs. I find that most votes were adopted by the National Assembly by the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The government has proposed to put the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2020 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision on amendments to the 2020 Financial Fund for Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Decision on amendments to the Financial Fund for 2020, the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision on the Amendments and Supplements of the Fund for the Social Insurance of the Military Insurance Fund for the year 2020 and the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service for 2020, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2020. This is the first item of the proposed agenda. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the MPs to press the appropriate key on the parliamentary unit. I am stopping the vote. 209 Messengers voted for – 200 with abstentions – one did not vote – eight Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2020, be put on the agenda. Just before the vote, I would like to point out that for procedural reasons, given our intensification to be the only item on the agenda of the session, and given that the next session is planned to be scheduled with this item of the agenda – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, immediately after the budget rebalancing, for procedural reasons, the Government will refer this request again, and I will schedule a new session today with that agenda point. This is what you should have in mind before this vote. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm stopping the vote. Since the system is wrong, I'd like to ask you to repeat the vote once more. I'd like to ask the heads of Parliament clubs who know what we've agreed to, to apply what we agreed, which means that we'll schedule a new session with this agenda point after this budget session. So, for procedural reasons, we don't accept this motion for an emergency procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 209 MPs voted for – 14, against – four, did not vote – 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 212 MPs voted, with – 203 abstention – one, did not vote – eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Republic of Serbia's 2020 Budget Act, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2020, the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Agreement on Amendments to the Social Insurance Fund for 2020 and the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service Decision for 2020, which was submitted by the Government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Siniš Mali, Minister of Finance, with his associates, and that: Assistant Minister of Finance – Darko Komnenic and Assistant Minister of Finance – Ana Jovic. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Before opening a principled and unique search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. National MP Ivica Dacic, i.e. I, he suggested for a long time the debate, in accordance with our agreement with the colleges, that the time for debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 211 votes for – 191 against – one, abstention – one, was not voted by 18 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs, under Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Before I give my proposal my word, I'll let you know of the next one. You have received the resignation of MP Marija Jovanovic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of examining this resignation, which has determined that, by resigning, the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 86(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office ended before it was elected to the MP, Marija Jovanovic, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. Pursuant to Article 157(1) and Article 192(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision on amendments to the 2020 Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2020 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2020. Also, I would like to tell you immediately that, honourable Members of the People, in agreement with Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, for the purpose of planning our activities, our agreement with the College is to conclude today's search in principle, to hold a debate in particulars on Thursday, that is, amendments and voting on budget rebalancing, and then to continue on Thursday or Friday a new session dedicated to the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases. Since we opened the debate, I'm asking, I suppose, and I'm sure Minister Sinisha Mali will take the floor on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u453	Thank you. Dear Mr Dacic, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at today's session, I will have the pleasure of presenting the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the second rebalancing this year. What I want to remind you is that in April, we had our first budget rebalance in March, April of the month when the coronary pandemic of the virus began. At that time, we quickly, effectively, with a comprehensive programme, were able to create a rebalance that gave us the opportunity to single out 5.8 billion euros, about 12.5% of our GDP, to set aside for our economy and citizens of Serbia in order to mitigate the negative consequences of KOID19. As you remember, in that program we had five minimum earnings that we paid for over a million employees in the private sector. We had a shift in taxes and contributions over a four-month period. We also planned 200m euros in loans through the Development Fund, cheap loans precisely for the private sector that allowed them to survive this pandemic of the coronary virus. Also, we singled out and agreed on a two-billion-euro guarantee scheme with business banks. This guarantee scheme continues to apply our companies are receiving credits for craft and liquidity to mitigate the negative consequences of the virus's corona. And also, if you remember, we've increased 10% of our income to all health employees, just like that to our heroes, giving them credit, supporting them with the efforts they've made to fight the coronary virus. We've also singled out four thousand dinars, one-time help for our oldest citizens. We also gave Serbia's citizens 100 euros each, to every adult citizen of Serbia who answered and said he needed the help. So, the promise we made with the first budget rebalance is fully fulfilled. Neither Siniša Mali nor anyone sitting here says the IMF and the European Commission that our first rebalancing programme was timely, efficient, comprehensive and that is why, honourable MPs, Serbia does not have this black scenario that has some other and much more developed countries than Serbia. So we've preserved our production capacity. Our unemployment rate in the second quarter was 7.3%. So, historically at the lowest level. You don't have mass layoffs, you don't have people who are out of work, as you have in some very developed countries. This budget rebalance today, the second one that is before you, will give us the opportunity to continue the administrative fight against the crown of the virus, and therefore in this budget rebalancing you have nine billion dinars that we have singled out for the completion of two special KOID hospitals, one in Kruševec, one here in Belgrade. That's what we've set aside, I say, nine billion dinars. We have also allocated additional resources, and here I will list you today, to continue the reconstruction of a large number of general hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia, for the purchase of medical equipment, for the purchase of medicines. We also singled out the money to pay and help our health employees with a one-time aid of 10,000 dinars, as President Vukic promised. So it's also in the budget rebalance. But on the other hand, we also made sure that the capital projects, that the construction, improvement of the road, rail infrastructure in our country also disappears, so that in this budget rebalancing you have the money needed to complete the bypass around the city of Belgrade, to continue the work on the Moravska Corridor, on the Preljina-Požega highway. So all those infrastructure works continue and the money in the budget rebalancing is provided for. When you look at the growth rate of our economy, it's very important for me to point out that by the end of the year, we are the best in Europe. So, number one, we're in Europe in this budget rebalance. So the activities that I've listed will lead to our growth rate being minus one or what we expect, since this is a conservative growth rate that we put in the budget rebalance, that it's going to be about minus 0.6 or minus 0.7%. The smallest decline in Europe, the best result in Europe, is the merit of all Serbian citizens. I've had a chance to show you today, and I want to show you, so I'm just going to take a brief look at the details of the budget rebalancing, to show you something that is very important to you, which is very important to the citizens of Serbia. With this budget rebalance for which we have otherwise obtained the IMF's consent, this budget rebalance also directs us to the realisation of the project "SRBIJA 2025". As you know, the project involved 14 billion euros in additional money for investment in infrastructure. It is the main driver of growth and the development of our economy, the development of our economy, the growth of our GDP, and these are domestic investments. You'll see when we're here in a few weeks about the 2021 budget that we'll have a record amount of capital investment in 2021. What does that mean? Here, look at this IMF chart, the cumulative growth of the Republic of Serbia compared to, here are all the countries of Europe, and this red, ladies and gentlemen, is the Republic of Serbia. So the projected growth of our economy by the IMF in the next three years is absolutely the largest. Not to say "bad languages" is just the IMF, here is the European Commission. Look at all the countries in Europe, cumulative growth in the next three years, again dominated by our country. One will say: “Well, do not look at cumulative growth. ” Let's look at the average growth we're making in 2020, 2021, 2022. He says the IMF again, this red one right here is Serbia. Serbia is the best again. What does the European Commission say? He says, "Re-average growth, which has been projected over the next three years, absolutely Serbia is the leader in Europe." Why am I telling you this? I am speaking because, honourable MPs, we have launched reforms, yet President Vukic when he was Prime Minister in 2014, it has been several difficult years, and we have quite finished this fiscal consolidation. Four years in a row, by the end of last year, we had a budget surplus. It is this very surplus, these difficult reforms that we have been through and have led us to deal with in the right way this year with the crisis caused by the coronary virus, that the state of Serbia is taking the greatest burden of the crisis on itself. So, a complete justification for the difficult reforms we have been through and that we are talking today about our country as a growth leader and by projection both the European Commission and the IMF, as an absolute leader for the next two years. So this is very important to point out and this shows how well the economic policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is justified, properly defined and directed towards the growth of our economy. Don't lose your mind, it's not a matter of rebalancing, it's a matter of budgeting for 2021, but you don't have many countries in the world that will go with an increase in pensions in the Corona era. Let me remind you, according to the "Switzerland formula" of January 1st, pension in the Republic of Serbia will increase by 5.9%, minimum earnings rise by 6.6%. We'll also have an increase in profits in the public sector. So despite the crown, despite this major economic crisis, we are also thinking about raising the standard of living for Serbian citizens. Of course, let's not forget, the objective is "SRBIJA 2025", the average salary of 900 euros, the average pension of over 430 euros. With this kind of increase, in no way endangering macroeconomic stability, we will achieve that goal. When it comes to budget rebalances, total revenues are projected at 1291.4 billion dinars. Costs of 1774.4 billion dinars. So we have a deficit of 483 billion dinars. An absolute deficit that in no way threatens our macroeconomic stability. So we're on average the EU. You have countries like, say, and we're going to do it during the debate, I'm going to share that information with you, like Great Britain, whose projected deficit is 16.5%. France, Spain, they all have much larger projected deficits. For you as MPs, it is very important to compare this amount, and also to the participation of public debt in GDP, the absolute and projected budget, or budget rebalance, that amount will not exceed 60%. Therefore, the participation of public debt in GDP will not cross that Mastricht defined a level of 60%, which means that we are absolutely in a stable financial position, and on the other hand, our growth rate, i.e. the smallest decline in Europe, is sufficient to say how justified the measures we have applied are. What is very important to me, if you have not read in detail this budget rebalancing, therefore, in this rebalancing, other than the completion and fitting of two special Kovid hospitals, funds have been allocated for the Institute for Mother and Child, for Tirshova, for the Dedinje 2, the GAK National Front, the Institute for Infectious and Tropic Diseases, for hospitals in Arangelovac, Prokuplje, Loznica, Leskovac, Vrbas, Pirote, Kikindi, Vranja, Smederjevska Palanca, as well as for the Duke's Clinical Centre. The rebalancing of this budget also set aside additional money for the homes of health Novi Sad, Valjevo, Velika Gradište, Vrnjačka Banja, Majdanpek, Mladenovac, Osijek and Ub. So, as I said at the beginning of my address, this budget rebalance is aimed at further strengthening our capacities in health care, in order to deal with the pandemic of the coronary virus in the right way. On the other hand, as I said, we also have 10,000 dinars of one-time assistance for every health worker to support them properly in this fight. One piece of information from all the figures we're going to discuss today. We also allocated an additional 5.1 billion dinars for subsidies in the area of agriculture, so very important. I even have a chart here that I'll show you later, how subsidies from year to year for our agricultural producers are growing, here, even in the Corona era, even when the biggest economic crisis in the world is in progress, we've found the opportunity to single out those we consider to be the most needed help. So, you're facing this budget rebalance. We have absolutely achieved our goal for this year, we have maintained macroeconomic stability. Just one data, think for yourself, what course we have this year, the exchange rate - the euro has not changed at all, although someone would expect at the time of the biggest crisis that you have some disturbances in the foreign exchange market, that is another indicator of how stable our situation is and how the state reacted when it comes to the crisis, not to say anything about the level of inflation. So inflation has not moved, 1.5% to 2% on average, so we've maximumly done when it comes to the stability of our system, we've raised the maximum, let me say, and the credibility of our country. When Serbia needed the most, the government of the Republic of Serbia was there, every promise we made and we fulfilled. That is why I call on you to support this budget rebalance, to further strengthen our health capacities, to pay for this one-time aid to our healthcare workers and to continue to work and to build our Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u454	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I urge the presidents or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups to report for word. Do the Committee's reporters want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u455	Dear Chairman, I came forward as the mandated proposal of the Committee on Finance and the control of public spending, because yesterday we held a session of the Committee, where the minister presented the proposal for this second rebalancing which we are considering in this year. At the session, when considering budget rebalancing and budgets for next year, next to the minister, who is proposing in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Fiscal Council, that is, the president and members of the Fiscal Council, who give their assessment on the rebalancing, that is, the draft budget. Usually these sessions are highly visited when it comes to these topics, because the Fiscal Council is always doing a little deeper analysis, with some of its views on how it sees certain positions in the rebalancing itself, but also how it sees certain economic environments. Many times we held different views at board meetings compared to the fiscal council analysis, and so it is now, and that is, above all, that Professor Pavle Petrovic, with respect, who is always trying to raise the scale somewhere when it comes to the economy and financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, is always against the increase in wages in state bodies, when it comes to certain givings, which he does not see as a targeted, or structural change, such as the parts of investing in society in any segment. Thus, he always stated in his estimates that we should invest both in health and in education and in the protection of the environment and in increasing pensions, but the part where you say that the state must really respond adequately to the pandemic, and this is giving not only to the private sector through minimal personal incomes, but also to the increase in wages in the state sector and when it was the measure, the social one, which was for 100 euros to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is then very skeptical and opposes such measures. This is what was, in fact, the idea of both the Minister and the Committee members, to show that still such measures yield results, regardless of what might happen through these economic research and these figures, somewhere they do not see the results of all of it. However, when you look at IMF reports, the World Bank, the European Commission, however, these measures have produced adequate results. When you look at today, for example, the presentation of the IMF director, the leading economists of America, who are asking for the state to respond adequately, realised that it was late to the pandemic, that Serbia was in fact a small country that implemented its economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, at some point responding adequately, listened to the needs of citizens, businesses, which is most important, just when we were shut down as a state because of the attack of the pandemic, i.e. Kovida-19, and that it had given adequate results with such measures. That's why we have the lowest rate of downturn in economic activity today. That's why we're going to have the best growth rate when it comes to certain neighborhoods. That's why we're ready for next year, which is supposed to be a year of recovery for all states, but so is for us. That's why these charts you're showing and what they're actually projections of all international financial institutions really have their basis. What shows great skepticism and the Fiscal Council and some opposition leaders about Serbia not being on a good path, in fact, shows that some people still live in the past, do not understand what society needs today at all, why it is necessary to co-operate both as an economy and as a society at an adequate level, why it is necessary to listen to the needs of citizens daily and why it is necessary to bring such measures in a certain way, in cooperation with all relevant entities in society. That's why yesterday, at the Committee's session, we accepted this draft budget rebalance, because we think it's good for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u456	Thank you. As I called on the presidents, or authorized representatives to apply, the word is Milorad Mijatovic, SDPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u457	Mr. President, the Honorable Associates of Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing a second budget rebalance for 2020. But I look at the 2020 budget, the first rebalancing and the second rebalancing as one whole, and I can say right away -- that's one consistent whole. Why? Because, in every respect, the predictions given are being realized. Of course, I wish the 2020 budget was at its initial stage, and then we wouldn't be talking about budget deficits. I'm absolutely sure we'd be talking about budget surplus. However, like all countries, Serbia was affected by the Kovida-19 pandemic and we had the first rebalancing in April 2020. Mr. Minister, I would like to point out that the first rebalancing government has achieved extraordinary results, it has given a proper, effective response to the beginning of the Kovid pandemic. In this way she has done two goals that have become the strategic goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is saving the lives of Serbian citizens and saving Serbia's economy and both for Serbia is very important. What I want to point out, and it can't be challenged by anyone even in the country, and even out of the country, we've achieved very good results. This is reflected in the fact that we have the slightest drop in GDP. It is one or 1.5% as predicted by the IMF. What might be absurd is here is the fall of success. Why? Because it is the smallest fall from all the countries of our environment, all the countries of Europe and many countries of the world. This was only done by Serbia thanks to the fact that we had consolidated finances, which is exactly what we did from 2014 to 2017, it gave us the opportunity to give timely and effective answers to this crisis that happened to us. Let's start with health care. You know, no one predicted this pandemic, and I have to say, everyone was at first caught up in what started to happen. Not to tell you that I have read many analyses and everyone has said – that this will take two, three months and even one serious institute from an Asian country said that the last case of Kovid in Serbia will be August 9th. Now, please, it's November 10th, we have the highest rate in the third peak, in the third wave. You know, that's what's ungrateful to predict and there's a lot of uncertainty going on. It will not be in 2020 alone, it will be in 2021, and therefore the government of the Republic of Serbia, as the responsible government that takes care of both Serbian citizens and its economy, must anticipate all developments that will take place in the coming period. The five comas of a few billion euros essentially put into Serbia's economy meant that we had the slightest unemployment. It's 7.5% single-digit. See how many countries have multiple unemployment, Serbia is at 7.5%. That's a big score. Second, pensions are paid regularly. Please, no cuts. Payments are paid regularly, too, without a reduction. Many countries have reduced it, we haven't done it. Maybe the biggest result I have to mention is that we haven't cut capital investments. On the contrary, at the time of this crisis, Serbia, thanks to what it did from 2014 to 2017, has continued capital investments, I mean highways, I mean the railway and the fact itself, we think about the future, because the future is something we need to think about. The crown will pass, and Serbia must live. This means that it preserves the economy and that we move on with our lives. You know, a lot of resources have been invested in healthcare, it's care 0.6% of GDP, hospital equipment, but I'm not going to go to hospital equipment and create new clinical centres, I want to talk about the cost of treatment and equipment for the Kovid-19 pandemic. Please, the state of Serbia has come to almost a million and a half people who have been tested by PCR tests. These are very expensive tests. That's a quarter of Serbia's citizens. Find one government, even richer countries, that has allocated so much resources that all citizens can be tested, and those who have been positive for free treatment in hospitals. That means we have equipped hospitals, we have respirators, we have adequate medications. That's what it costs. Right away, Serbia is a poor country, let's not fool ourselves that we have too much GDP or that we have some jar from which we can constantly extract funds. We can only spend what's earned and something we owe each other. Of course, every borrowing has its limits, and I'll talk about it later. In fact, what is most important right now, which is the health of Serbian citizens, we are rapidly finishing two hoofs of hospitals, one in Zemun and one in Krusevec and more equipment in other hospitals. You know, it's about 200 million euros, not small funds. It is true, we are in debt, the debt is not small and it is now 57.7% of GDP and that is 26.6 billion, but our budget deficit is 483 billion dinar, somewhere it is 8.75 GDP or the general state goes 8.9%. Of course, the government of our country, the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, we, as coalition partners of the largest party, think that preserving the lives of citizens, as well as maintaining the economy is the first priority and that we should not worry at all if this borrowing goes the way it goes. We've introduced a red line here. That red line is that we have a limit that we can't borrow more than 60% of GDP. That's the line that Mastricht predicts, and I have to say that many other countries, much more developed than us, are much more in debt, that even goes over 100, 150%, but we stay at this level up to 60% of GDP. We've had it before, if I remember correctly, and I remember it well, because I've been following all our budgets since 2012. We were at 76%, and I must point out that with good policy, we came to 53% with a stable policy in January 2020. Its 53% where we were and now 57.5% is this result that we have achieved by financial consolidation, which has given us the opportunity to meet these challenges successfully now, and the challenges as you know about the state of Serbia are very large, very important and precisely what we want to stress at this point. I consider this rebalance, the second rebalancing, one interstep, one step towards the 2021 budget. We expect that budget very soon. You've already announced it and, of course, there's already been said some things that we can and now at this point talk about. The budget scales for 2021 are high, which is what we must tell the citizens of Serbia. Why do I say that? We estimate that GDP growth will be 6%. That's not small. Look, we don't have a big fall so we have a low base so we can go upstairs right now. Serbia has managed to reduce the GDP decline. Someone says it's because of the structure of our economy. It is a fact that we have a large share of agriculture, that agriculture this time this year has done well, but there are foreign direct investments, there we have that industry that started to produce results, which is what we have always insisted foreign investors and these foreign direct investments, even at this difficult time, when many countries have been cutting their budgets in the first nine months, we have about 1.9 billion euros. So many countries believe in Serbia, believe in the stability of its economy and are ready to invest further, which means we will move forward. Pension growth is 5.9%, big growth. Let me tell you right now big growth. Of course, I am a member of the Social Democratic Party, and I advocate that pensioners and those employees can live on their salaries. But we insisted on the Swiss formula. That Swiss formula, even though we've had a fall this year, gives us a very high growth of 5.9%. That's good. Why am I stressing that? Because we have parameters that we stick to to have sustainable finance, because somewhere, pensions are now at 10.5% of GDP. That maximum is 11% of GDP. So there's room for a sustainable pension fund and for the pensioners to be sure that in the next year the increased pensions will certainly be paid as they are now. I've talked to a lot of pensioners and they're pushing for whether it's possible to come back from two parts again, but it's a matter of technique, and it means a lot to someone. Furthermore, you've announced a salary growth in the public sector. There's no percentage, I wouldn't talk about it, but I'd just ask that as far as possible for selective growth and that the most people in health care and they bear the greatest burden of this crisis, then people who are in education and, of course, the security sector, I mean the military and the police, who are hit at this point in the Kovid 19 crisis. Salaries also have their anchor, their limit, that's 9% of GDP. They're currently at about 9.5, well there's tolerance, and I wouldn't be too strict here, for the simple reason they're not 15%, then it's a sign of concern and an alarm. Like this, I think we can handle it. As a Social Democrats and as a Social Democratic Party, we very much support and welcome the rise of the minimum labour price. He's 6.6%, and we know what the minimum labour price means, she's pulling other salaries up, because that's what we stand for. I support social dialogue here, the talks between unions and employers and, of course, I expect, even if it is a crisis, and the crises are always a challenge, that we have this first goal somewhere, which is that the minimum wage is equal to the minimum consumer basket. I expect that in the next period of social dialogue, together with trade unions and employers, we will come to that solution. I say and I emphasized, the Social Democratic Party always advocates a better life for citizens, but not on false promises, not on something called pulsism, but on the income achieved, and that there is no sharing of what is not earned. That's very important, you can easily promise a lot of things, even for a while and then be in charge and eventually come up with a situation that you can't pay for it. I said 2021 is really uncertain, it's hard to predict what's going to happen around both Kovid 19 and the economy. Knowing that the Serbian government is responsible, responsible for citizens, honestly, I expect we will have the right answers to all the challenges that will be in the coming period. You know, Serbia is not a desert island, Serbia is part of Europe, part of the world, and all that happens there is being transferred to our country. I welcome your decision that you are considering implementing Agenda 2025, Serbia 2025 on wage growth. We came with an average salary of 500 euros. However, I would remind you, Mr. Minister, of the 2030 Agenda and the objectives of sustainable development. The 2030 agenda is in line with Agenda 2025, and perhaps in this respect I expect that you in the 2021 budget will also allocate considerable resources for the realisation of the 2030 Agenda, I mean also environmental protection, I mean many things that we talk about. Of course, there are still many questions to be answered. They are not easy, and this government, the previous government and previous governments have faced many challenges. One of these challenges was social cards. In her exposé, the Prime Minister said that this government would bring social cards, and I would also remind you of the Pay Law. Why? I know it's a big bite, but it's going to give us those lines, those red lines, how and where we can behave because we've managed to fix our finances, manage them, not have any more surprises, and once we've done these jobs, we'll be in a much better situation. I'd like to point out another fact. It is that we have an unemployment of 7.6%, but in Serbia around 250,000 people work in the so-called. the informal economy. These people live, I mean, first of all, free artists, estradius, catering, those who deal in sales, union sales, and they've lost their income. They've lived up to now, some have lived well, but now they've come because of these restrictions in a difficult situation. The fact itself says that we lost a billion euros in tourism this year. These are huge funds for Serbia. However, I am sure that many of the challenges we will already be able to address in the 2021 budget. At the end of my presentation, I call on Serbian citizens to respect all the measures concerning Kovid 19 and to stress that the SDPS as a coalition partner of the SNS will support this rebalancing, stand behind it, and that we will discuss some of the issues that I have mentioned in my presentation also for the 2021 budget, where we will discuss together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u458	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Markovic Palm.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u459	Dear Ministers, President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this budget rebalance is investment, development and social. The budget rebalancing is not a challenge, the budget rebalance is a commitment given that no one planned that Corona would hit Serbia and that investment in homes of health, clinical centres, equipment, this year is a major figure, and not planned in the budget. When the budget is planned, you plan the spilling and the sterling side. It's said to me that when someone lives well, and they work a little, they leave him a grandfather, a great-grandfather and a father. But here it is different, it is a very important methodology and parameters left at the time when he was Prime Minister, Vukic, and Ivica Dacic is the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. These two things are compatible, the Prime Minister and foreign affairs. The international respect that the state of Serbia has today and which was seven, eight years ago is very important, and the international respect is always the most important for the international respect, the economic stability of a country. We can conclude that Serbia is one of the most stable economic states, not only in the environment, but some institutions have said that Serbia is leading in this crisis period of time. What else is most important? Foreign investors' investment and arrival in Serbia have not stopped, which means the number of employees is increasing, and when you increase the number of employees then the number of users from the number of taxpayers decreases. It is very important that the number of taxpayers be much higher than the number of beneficiaries, not only of pensioners, but of those who are not profitable, but also of service to the citizens of Serbia. Also, it is a very important factor of what was done during Korona and Kovid 19, that someone who was looking at the side could not say - in Serbia is now doing less than it was in 2019. It is more and more because of this work we have economic stability, it is a stable dinar which is very important for Serbian producers, owners of small, medium and large companies, it is important even for the ordinary gentleman of the agricultural producer living in the country. We're just about to see how we can raise those farmers' pensions. It's much higher than six, seven years ago, but 12, 13 thousand today is the average. I think it's small and the state will take care of them. But they get through subsidies, years ago they weren't those subsidies. However, it turns out that our agricultural producer sometimes can't see when he gets 50% for the connected machines, for the seedlings of the state, then it turns out that his successor who replaced him at the agricultural land has a lot more than his grandfather or grandmother are receiving a pension. This little needs to be cleared up and explained to the agricultural producers, those who registered the agricultural land, that they got huge funds and, of course, they should get it in the next period of time, because agriculture is very important for the development of a country. I have one objection, not to the budget, but to the prices at this restaurant. There can't be coffee for seven dinars. We're not the Association of Social Affairs. There are solid salaries for the price of services in the restaurant to remain the same for employees and journalists, and for us MPs to increase the price. I'm telling you this as a man of your life, don't think that I'm calling one of you here right now, and for me, the same goes for me, but in retirement clubs in the country, the price of coffee is 70 dinars. And if we could reroute that money to social cases and I don't know what, but when it's multiplied in the year, here's the minister drinking third coffee, if it was 80 dinars, he'd have had two. So it's the only objection I have. Of course, it's inherited, but sometimes we have to take care of those who look at us, say -- well, these people are fighting for us, and that what is accepted as a salary doesn't take 100% home, as does a worker who works in a cable factory or another factory, I often say cable factory because it's one of the oldest factories in Jagodina. So, I want to especially praise the budget and budget rebalances and that the state of Serbia has fought well against Corona, not only have we fought well, we have the smallest number of infected and I don't see anyone saying, and it's not in this parliament, as it is, I don't know, a fake picture, it's not true that so many infected and dead. Who benefits from hiding the number of infected and the number of dead, I think it's just political propaganda that doesn't stand, and that on the other hand, when those critics go to a clinical center that they represented eight, nine years ago, there's a drastic difference in appearance and everything called equipment and services, when it comes to patients, not just infected by Corona. I want to say that after health care workers, the highest responsibility is for educators and to congratulate them on the fact that so few children are infected in schools, because they are parents who are seven, eight hours or five, six depending on who the class attends when they go to school, they have to take care of those children, those educators. Let's see the ministers, if we can figure out a way to help them. They now have much higher salaries than they were in their earlier years, but we have to commend them too, and employees in kindergarten and to respect the measures, but you can't convince children in kindergarten to wear masks, in primary school, in high school, etc. But those of us who are mature, not just us MPs, but all the other citizens, when we see someone without a mask, don't even say good day to him. It grows from day to day more infected and we have to wear Korona as a sneez. It is a dangerous disease, but it has to be done. We have to go to work and if we don't go to work, there's no budget to charge, there's going to be a large number of workers left without their salaries, that employer will lose customers, suppliers and economic development of Serbia instead of going up, to go down. It means that everyone is urged to work, that everyone has protection and that protection saves not only that man who wears a mask, but the environment in the workplaces, and especially his family. I know what a crown is. In my family my husband and son had a crown, and I had a crown, but the crown has several species, if I may say so, that I am not now a politician of general practice. There's someone carrying a virus, and he doesn't know he's got a crown. We have cases like that, that a man went to get tested, he's got nothing missing, and he's positive. Especially where the buses are, where the restaurants are. It's a good thing the president said not to close restaurants, cafes and movies, although the number of people present is now reduced, because, you know, it's not easy for people who sit at home all day to watch me say, not us, but the waist scares the crown. If this happens, we will also have a psychological problem, you know, present, because people are afraid of their grandchildren, or afraid of grandchildren, grandchildren getting no virus, kids, etc. We easily understood it in February, March, April of the month, however, when it began to die from the crown, when someone you know dies, your neighbor, your friend, your friend, it's not that simple, so let's say – what do we care. These results were achieved at a time when America chose the president, at a time when Europe had no co-operation as it had been in its earlier years, when the UK came out of the European Union and in this consolidation of power... Do you, my friend, want to end up quick with the minister, because he needs to answer me, or are you using it to get a picture of your camera to see your wife if you were in the session? Thank you. So it's very difficult in this time period to realize the budget. You know what, borrowing on the basis of original income and based on income and plan by 2025 – you are sure, you have where to return from and why not to be in charge of the state if these are benefiting citizens and individual entities, institutions, etc. I've been a businessman for 39 years, I've never had 100% money for a machine, drive, what's worth. So 10%, 15% you earn, you work, you pay back, and that's one domestic way this country works. Everyone criticised Belgrade on the water, but now those critics are putting on masks and hats to go around and buy in those luxury shops, like mujahedins, only their eyes can be seen, not to recognize them. Please, when you recognize them take pictures of them. What the hell are you hiding? You're going to the best mall in Europe, it doesn't matter that you didn't make it. There are no more places for criticism, because there were over 20,000 people working there, from carpenters to plumbers, because there will be over 5,000 people working there in the next period of time when all these facilities are opened. Thanks to Belgrade's water budget, there are certain revenues from real estate, i.e. from building these towers where communals per square are paid. Not only Belgrade on water, and infrastructure, when it comes to low construction, highways, and they will bring money, but if you don't have good highways, you can't draw attention to foreign investors. I went through Croatia four years ago, to tell you, I was thrilled with the highways in Croatia. Today we have better, longer and nicer highways than Croatia, which is a member of the European Union. If a man wants to see what he is, how he earns, how he lives, look at what your neighbor is doing, and that Croatia that has the support of the strongest state of the European Union, which is called Germany. So, ladies and gentlemen, the rebalancing when it's done is no big deal. You know where the rebalancing money goes. Such dynamics should continue with the government. A unique Serbia, which does not have ministers and officials, will support, as we have supported so far, everything that is good. You see, all I found in all this was that it was cheap coffee and mixed meat for us coming here to work, and everything else is fine. When it comes to the election of the American president, I would like to say that no one has the right to criticise our delegation headed by Vukic. When they visited Trump, when Trump called them, Trump invited a small Serbia, what were we supposed to say then? We will vote for Beyden, where a street in Kosovo and Metohija bears a name, or highway along the son of Joe Beyden. Congratulations to Beyden, we know what he thinks of Serbia, but we cannot forget that economically given hand by Donald Trump and the agency that opened in Serbia and that he did not prevent Serbia from developing economically, not talking about military actions, that no war began during the four years of his term. Serbia respects the will of the people and there is no one to say – you know what, you should have waited a little longer. We don't determine when the great powers will set us up for a meeting. But what's the point of that meeting? Because you're economically stable, because the army doesn't look what it looked like ten years ago anymore, because the police don't look what they looked like ten years ago. To say President Vukic - please remove the tenth point, we do not want to recognise Kosovo and Metohija independence. You know what, you can only say that if you're independent, if you're independent and if you can run the country alone without anyone's international help. We never expected someone to give us money for the respirators, for the flood, etc. If he gives us anything, thank them, but we financed it from the financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need to support this budget rebalance. I am sure that the budget that will be made in the next period of time is usually the beginning of December, that the budget will be the same development, social, economic and budget that recognises the whole world. Imagine you, IMF, it's an international money store, they sell money, and they determine your credibility, your credit, whether you have economic stability, what your final account was last year, three years ago, what your plan for the next period of time, what are original incomes, what are some other incomes that are not current, what are expenditures, etc. When they say – you are doing well, then there is no one right, not only in Serbia, but in Europe, to criticise Serbia that Serbia is on a bad economic path. Finally, I would also like to congratulate the finance minister, to congratulate the new government, the government is a collective body and to follow what I said, what Grandpa left to that grandson or son, the way the budget is realized, what are priorities. I have not seen that some car purchase priority for an institution of 100-150 euros, as it was in earlier years. Even cars were sold, cars were reduced from individual ministry etc., and the money ended up with Serbian citizens with one household job, especially when it comes to money. You know what else, where more people work with money, it's not a house. There's a man's money. That man has to be informed where that money goes, who that money goes for. There are ministers, there are also those who make some proposals, there are advisers. But what is Serbia's interest? Serbia's interest is to be militaryly strong, not to threaten someone with war, but you can see that Thaci and a few other Shiptars, the terrorist killer, committed genocide in Kosovo and Metohija and ended up in The Hague. This is the result of the same international policy led by Ivica Dacic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. That's the result. They didn't publish, it'll happen then and then, but it happened. Mr. Markovic, just time, please. Two more sentences. What's the point? Let's see how to protect the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that these Serbs now have no problem with those who remain, and they belong to these murderers currently in The Hague. We expect the verdict to be that kind of coffee to be in the indictment. They do not have only command responsibility, as Serbs have been tried for command responsibility, there are witnesses who say how many Serbs have killed, what genocide they have committed, and that is a life sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u460	Thank you. Selma Kučević is next on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u461	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a very important law, a law that should actually determine the amounts to be defined for certain areas of social life and which should actually formulate state policy and the goals of state leadership. We are asked a logical question of what the government actually wants to achieve by this bill, whether it really wants to improve the already existing state or perhaps legalize a state. I'd say this before. All of us here are aware of the absolutely negative effects of the coronary virus, and I think that this budget rebalance should really give more attention to cities and municipalities that have suffered one of the great consequences of this pandemic. At one point it was Tutin municipality, then Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Nova Varoš, today it is Prepolje, and all the cities in order. We can't ease these shortcomings, we can't make up for time, we can't bring back the lives of close people, but what we can definitely do is try to bring back citizens of these municipalities to believe in institutions, by continuing to invest and improve the health system in these municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget rebalancing which is ahead of us, among other things, provides for a reduction in the resources for the work of the national councils. The addresses of the national councils have received a memo from the already shut down Office for Human and Minority Rights, which informs all national minorities' national councils in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that the funds for their permanent work will be reduced by 20%. I note that the total funding for the work of 22 national councils is 0.002%, so one-fifth of the prominence, one-fifth of a thousandth of the percentage of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Our MPs have repeatedly pointed to the fact that national councils are also a constitutional category, whose work is regulated by law. Now we don't know how the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue will do business, but what I want is for this occasion to propose to the Ministry to ask that in the Budget Law, as well as in this rebalancing, the tendencies for national councils to be treated as NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Council is indeed no non-governmental organisation, these are the authorities of minority self-government, according to our Constitution. These are the bodies that will take care of education, culture, education, language use, and letters. Therefore, they are not any association of three, fifty or 150 members formed on this voluntary basis, to promote or achieve some of their own goals. For years back, national councils have been funded as citizens' associations through the form of a grant of NGOs and this is the first violation of the country's constitution. I would also remind you that certain national minority councils, in fact those who do not have their own national states, are financed directly from the state budget. So if these national councils cancel funding, that means the Constitution is suspended, gentlemen. What's that supposed to mean, and what does that show? This points to the attitude of state policy towards members of national minorities who, from this point of view, are either asymylative or discriminatory. Once again, I suggest that you think carefully before condemning members of national minorities to have no authentic and legitimate representative bodies for the next five months, and in this way we question the achievement of their national rights. I think, and I hope that you will agree that this law should not affect the rights of national minorities. I therefore propose that, in favour of the minority policy of this country, and the newly formed Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, at least in the double amount of originally planned funds are increased to this end. I would use my opportunity and my right as a National MP to invite all fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal, and I urge the Minister of Human and Minority Rights to advocate its achievement and adoption. Also, in my address, I would refer to a programme of return and sustainable survival of Bosniaks in Priboj. So you know what was actually going on there and how many Bosniaks were victims of the destructive policy of the regime at the time. Something that was, in fact, kind of like a speck of salvation, something that would restore the faith of those citizens was actually this program. Since 2014, however, all software activities have suddenly been cut off, so we wonder – how is it that the Bosniaks accept this country and experience it as their own? Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we want to have a modern European state of Serbia that accepts and divides European standards, then I definitely believe that we must also accept the principle of decentralisation, as well as regionalisation, as a principle in the conduct of official state policy. I therefore propose that the state budget particularly places the regions in which these most underdeveloped municipalities are, in order to try in some way to balance this particularly economically and extremely unbalanced position of these municipalities with others. So, by chance or not, in these areas and in these municipalities there are non-majority peoples who unfortunately share the same fate and members of the majority peoples. Also, what I would refer to in this speech is that the coordination body for the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja due to the coronal virus was taken from 20% of the budget, and the part from which the capital projects of these municipalities are financed. As a consequence of this pandemic and the poor realization of local budgets, I think it is necessary to return the suspended funds to these municipalities as soon as possible so that they can complete the basic existential projects. I would use my right in the end to invite all MPs to support this proposal, because it is indeed in the best interest and for the benefit of all citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u462	Thank you. Mr. Shaip Cambery called, I just don't know what basis, by the Rules of Procedure or Replic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u463	Mr. President, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1), that the speaker can only speak of the agenda. As we have heard from what the finance minister said so far, we have a point of the agenda – budget rebalance. Neither I nor any of the MPs heard that the Shiptari are the subject of this agenda, so I point to the previous speaker, that it hurt the dignity of Albanians in general, and we, the MPs representing Albanians. The term is used not only by the MP, but also by certain ministers. For the sake of the public, the National Council of Albanians has initiated a lawsuit against Minister Vulin, precisely because of what he says he is calling the Albanians in a pesorious manner. I want the Assembly to declare this injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u464	Thank you. I'd just like to remind you, and that's what you said you were wrong, because that's about Selma. You said the previous speaker. That's the thing, you called in late for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure correctly states that you have the right to point to an injury in the course of the injury. But, okay, I said procedurally. I'm not getting into the essence of what you were talking about. If you're not satisfied with my explanation, are you asking us to come forward in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u465	Yes, I want the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u466	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u467	Article 106. Apparently, the previous speaker has little understanding of the economy, and his memory is weak. In fact, Kosovo Albanians have raised 100% of the fees for goods from Serbia that used to go to KIM and that all this is related to the economic development and stability of a country. Why did I call these people what I called them, if he didn't believe me, take Dick Marty's book, otherwise he's a Swiss prosecutor, who's been reporting in the Swiss Parliament, or in the European Parliament, in the Council of Europe, to read the book, so he'll be clear to him that today, in The Hague, they should have been there much earlier. What else is the problem? Carla del Ponte. It's their mother and aunt and aunt and aunt. When she says genocide and war crimes took place on KIM and "Yellow House", watch what was done all in that "Yellow House", and all this affects the budget of a state called Serbia. The lies represented the Serbs as such or as such. They should've gotten a call sooner and gone to The Hague, but they killed witnesses. The witnesses were afraid. I hope that this epilogue now, with these in The Hague, will be in a formal sense, without the influence of large states, that they will be released and there is no material evidence or that all witnesses have been killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u468	Thank you. Since you've called for article 106, I don't know how to explain it. Are you asking us to say yes in the voting day or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u469	The assembly doesn't have to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u470	Does Mr. Milicevic want to go by the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u471	Thank you, Mr. President. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 – The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I'll tell you right away at the beginning that I don't want the Parliament to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. You have explained a little bit of an hour, and that is what MPs, at least those who are standing in parliament, should know that they know the Rules of Procedure, that the word of the Rules of Procedure may be given the moment when the breach of the Rules of Procedure is done, if they consider that the infringement has been done. A shorttime speaker, I don't mean Mr Markovic, who spoke before Mr Markovic, used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate. You know, I've always wondered who the leader of the opposition in Serbia is. I see today that these are the representatives of the Ugljanin and the Cambery party. It's good to know that. But the speaker used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to deal with politics again, to re-exploit some political flossules in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know what, if they fell asleep in the '90s, it's absolutely their problem. But we are here today to talk about amendments to the Budget Law, to talk about the present, to talk about what has been achieved, and to have one key question and one key goal that we want to achieve together, which is – how to protect the health of our people. According to Bujanovac, Presevo, the same relationship as with all other parts of Serbia is the president of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know who stood up more if this ruling majority did not advocate the historic reconciliation of Serbs and Albanians. And is historic reconciliation and does the contribution to this historic reconciliation work and make up those who, for example, go to some medium in the region and say that Serbia is again a factor of instability in the Balkans? Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not asking the Parliament in voting day to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u472	Thank you. Mr. Cambery, on what grounds? (Shaip Kamberi: Replica. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Akosh Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u473	Thank you very much. Dear President, the presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for a second rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget for several reasons. One reason is that the proposed rebalancing is responsible for the citizens, because it is formed to create a good basis for suppressing the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. The second rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget envisions total budget revenues of 1,291 billion dinars, which is 46 and a half more compared to the amounts foreseen by the April budget rebalance, and total budget expenditures are estimated at 1,728 billion dinars. The total fiscal deficit is 483 billion dinars. Responsible economic policy management and the good state of the budget have created enough space for the government of the Republic of Serbia to help the economy mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus. A comprehensive package of measures has been adopted to preserve the liquidity of businesses and the population, employment levels and the preservation of living standards. The planned value of the total package is estimated at 12.5% of GDP. The total package of measures to support the economy and population is 551 billion dinars, of which 110 billion dinars were provided on behalf of the tax measure, and 132.9 billion dinars were provided on behalf of the direct support measure to the private sector. I would stress here that the SVM parliamentary group supports the government's proposal to pay each individual hotel 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room. In fact, measures to preserve the liquidity of the economic sector have been provided with 159 billion dinars. At this rate, I would especially like to refer to loans with a guaranteed scheme. I'd like to suggest that if you make new arrangements with banks, you make sure that you make sure that you have a period of processing that requires a loan not to be for more than 15 days. This is important for companies to receive loans as soon as possible. In addition, I suggest that the credit price be reduced by at least 0.5%, i.e. that the loans indexed in euro of 3% plus the three-month eurobor be reduced to 2.5% plus the three-month eurobor, which are in dinars from 2.5% plus one-month belibor to 2% plus one-month belibor. The adjusted interest rate would increase the overall liquidity of the financial market and shorten the amount of the claim. It is necessary to extend the purpose of the said loan and to allow businesses to use it for investment investments in addition to liquidity security. This is important because the 11.9% drop in investment affected the GDP decline by 2.5%. It would be important to allow private companies to use loans with a guarantee scheme and those in which the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units own more than 50% and do not have a monopoly on the market. This is important because these enterprises are due to the pandemic that affected their collection of claims in a very difficult situation and without adequate state aid. The question is, will he survive this year? In the previous period, perhaps the most important measure was the 10% increase in healthcare workers' salaries, direct aid from four thousand dinars to all pensioners and support to agricultural producers. It is very important to help farmers because, thanks to them, in these difficult times, agricultural production will still grow about 5% with record yields of certain plant cultures, which will positively affect the overall GDP. We will agree that it is very important to maintain the health and treatment of patients and therefore the Government of the Republic of Serbia has spent an additional 60 billion dinars in the past period on behalf of medical equipment and medicines. According to the finance ministry, the fiscal deficit will be around 8.9% of GDP this year, but in our opinion, SVM parliamentary groups, such a one-time deficit would be fully justified, as otherwise the economic downturn this year would be much higher, followed by a decrease in production capacity, including a decrease in jobs. Also, without these measures, the recovery of the economy would be significantly slower in the coming year. On the basis of the rebalancing, we can say that economic consumption will drop by 1.9%, however, it should not be forgotten that last year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a lex spray for loans in Switzerland and thus helped the families in charge, without doing so private spending would have fallen much more this year. Based on the proposed rebalancing, we can conclude that economic growth in 2020 will be minus 1% which is one of the best results in Europe. The eurozone expects a GDP decline of up to 8%. In the absence of measures and support for the economy and the population, the decline in GDP in 2020 would be higher and would be around 5% of GDP. We also welcome the decisions of the National Bank of Serbia, which has taken additional measures to support the real sector. We particularly welcome the decision on moratoriums on loans made to preserve the stability of the financial system. As the National Bank of Serbia has known, twice this year has set aside a default on the basis of loans for all debtors who wanted to do so. The first moratorium was set in mid-March for 90 days and then for an additional 60 days since the beginning of August. With these measures, the National Bank of Serbia reacted effectively, resolutely and in due time, and this is what it says most about over 90% of the debtors taking advantage of this possibility. In addition, I should stress that it has reduced the reference interest rate by a full percentage point to 1.25%, which will affect faster recovery of economic activity. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia's timely and coordinated measures prevented a major drop in economic activity during the pandemic and inflation remained low, which is also very important in these difficult times. Members of Parliament, I would like to stress that we will vote for another budget rebalancing because it allows for the realisation of capital projects, which are of particular importance to us, as is the continuation of the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica. The construction of the National Theatre began in 2007 and was halted in 2011, due to lack of funds. In 2014, the main project was amended and construction continued thanks to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and the Serbian Progressive Party coalition, and last year an old part of the facility was completed and we first saw light at the end of the tunnel. It is very important that the National Theatre building is completed in 2021, because the conditions for working in the rented buildings are very difficult, and actors, theatre workers and the citizens of Subotica deserve to enjoy performances in the new theatre. Another rebalancing envisions 218m dinars to continue the construction of the theatre. The rebalancing also provides for a continuation of the construction of the spa and aqua park in Palic, which is one of the most significant investments in Subotica and its realization will mean a great deal for our entire economy and for all citizens in the region. The first phase is over, the second phase of the work is currently under way, which envisions a complete implementation of this project. For a farmer, it is very important to build two overpasses at Kelebija, because otherwise they would have to drive several kilometers by tractor to get to their country. Building overpass increases the safety of traffic participants. The value of the investment is 500 million dinars. The reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line between Subotica and Segedin will take place. It is an important project, as its realisation reduces the retention at border crossings, reducing CO2 emissions and developing cross-border co-operation. This project is also important because a large number of citizens in the North of Vojvodina work in Congrad County and travel by car every day to work and back home, and after building the railway they will be able to travel by train and not wait much at the border crossings. I must point out that the reconstruction and construction of the Horgos-Resca border crossing will be carried out, which is also an important project for our fellow citizens travelling to the EU. The SVM parliamentary group will support the second budget rebalancing, as it contains building important infrastructure and water projects, such as building a highway between Belgrade and Zrenjanin, building a traffic station between Novi Sad and Ruma, building a second phase of a water treatment plant in Kikinda, and improving the conditions for ship translation within the Tisa dam near Novi Becej. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I would like to finally say a few more words about Article 2. Budget law. In Article 2, you stated that you plan to provide loans to domestic and international commercial and multilateral financial institutions, foreign governments through the broadcasting of state charters. We know that citizens of our country are currently able to buy state papers in a very complicated and expensive way. Our proposal is to simplify the purchase of government bonds through the Treasury with minimum costs and without taxes to our citizens, who are willing to finance public debt. In fact, if most of the public debt is in the hands of our citizens, then it provides a more stable financial market during extreme events, as is the current pandemic. On the other hand, we think it's better to pay interest to our citizens, who believe in the state and buy state papers, and who will spend it in the country than foreign speculators. We will vote in favour of rebalancing because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to preserve public health and security, helping businesses to preserve liquidity and reduce employment, i.e. the preservation of living standards and the liquidity of the population continue to pay particular attention to capital investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u474	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u475	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole world is facing a crisis that has never been seen before and whose end unfortunately is not in sight. In such circumstances, I can safely say that Serbia is fighting a fierce fight and is achieving extraordinary results in this fight. Of course, I mean in the economic plan and in the economic field. As we discussed during the discussion of the exposé and the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is unfortunately a new time in Serbia, a new time in the world, and this is neither an opportunity nor a chance for political populism, political monologues and political pamphlets, and there are no more referendum questions here whether we are in favour or against. We just don't have time for that. No valuable time should be wasted for Serbia. Today solidarity is important and unity and Serbia has always been as strong as it is unique. In front of all of us, in front of the government, there is one great challenge, that with far more energy, with far more enthusiasm all together, I repeat, we are working on the economic recovery of our country at this extremely difficult moment, and if we do so, we will certainly be the best in Europe, the most recognizable in Europe by economic indicators, but all of this depends on ourselves at this moment. And the International Monetary Fund, as Mr. Minister said, both the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development say, are not our projections, these are their projections, so that we can be the first country to grow economically in Europe, but it is up to us again. The economic situation in Serbia is not easy, but is far better than some other countries in the region and countries in Europe. State leadership, I would say, in a period behind us, even today, of course, shows all the ability, expertise and knowledge to manage the crisis, to manage the crisis situation. So, the system works even when it's hard and not only to work, but it has very good results on the economic plan. What's the priority? To preserve, above all, the economy, but to preserve and hard-earned fiscal achievements that we have come to thanks to the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose foundations are set in 2014. These were then unpopular political moves, but bold and determined moves that led to today having a healthy system based on sound foundations. So the goal is to preserve these hard-earned fiscal achievements, in the right way to use benefits from all of this in the future, but to accept all those incentives and initiatives leading to growth and development. The measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that you spoke of, Ministers, during the opening presentation, you said the exact figure that was set out, are fully justified and we think that they are timely, that they are adequate, but they would not come to that extent that we do not have fiscal stability and that we are not economically strong as a state. The government's measures are aimed at those most sensitive categories, and that is why I fully support them. What are the goals that they wanted to achieve and achieve? It is, above all, to maintain the level of employment, living standards and the existence of citizens, but, of course, as I said, and to preserve the economy. First of all, the accent is in the private sector, and we also fully support it, because the private sector is the future. The private sector is a blood stream. The private sector is also important for the economy, but it is also important for the state. It's important for the economy, because it opens up new jobs. It's important for the state, because the state is now living on taxes and taxes that it collects from the private sector. When it comes to budget rebalancing or changes and additions to the 2020 Budget Law, this proposal paints the current situation and creates, announces the future, the real one, I would say, the direction and path in the future, which is routed precisely by an exposé that is firmly based on six key points, six key principles defined by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Rebalance is real. He is not a list of good wishes and should not be seen as a political declaration. So, in our opinion, the government has realistically looked at what the problems are today and provided answers to the key questions that are being asked. We think this is the most just and realistic redistribution of financial space right now. You know, the budget needs to be seen as life. If you have an unreal budget, you also have an unreal life. In such an irresponsible and unserious way, this ruling coalition has not acted since 2012. So it takes care of citizens' interests, takes care of public interests, but, as I said, they are trying to preserve those hard-earned fiscal achievements that have just been achieved thanks to the government's reform course of the Republic of Serbia. What is very important is that we do not see the fear of making some decisive moves, but the courage for the government to face problems, to meet problems, and to offer answers to current problems. They'll repeat what we talked about during the exposé. So we believe and are convinced that this is a reform government, a government that will respond to the challenges and difficulties Serbia faces today and will face during the period ahead. Question number one when we talk about amendments to the Budget Law is the fight against the Crown of the Virus. The funds have been approved, as you said, to prevent and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic caused by the pandemic caused by the virus, defined funds for the reconstruction of covid hospitals, covid hospitals, for the construction of hospitals in Kruševec and Belgrade, for the purchase of drugs and sanitary equipment, increased payments to the Republic Health Insurance Fund for the purchase of necessary equipment and medicines and all in one way – to protect and preserve the health of our citizens. I would say that our health system, and that has already been said, when we look at this period behind us, the period of the crown, and today, of course, he passed the exam, I would say, with the highest estimate possible, that he showed all the safety, stability, flexibility, responsibility, seriousness, urgency, flexibility to the current situation. Serbia has many experts and experts when we talk about the health area and they are Serbian heroes today and I welcome the decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia to send 120,000 health workers a one-time aid of 10,000 dinars as one sight and a sign of respect for healthcare workers in Serbia for 120,000 healthcare workers, and that in January 2021, when we talk about the 2021 budget, therefore, the priority for salary increases is just for healthcare workers. You said, Minister, in the opening statement that we have a budget deficit. That's true, but we have a budget deficit not because bad economic policy is under way, we have a budget deficit because of the crown, but we have extraordinary results and that is an indicator that Serbia can do both faster and better. Serbia is now the first to grow in Europe, something it has never been before. So, we have, as you said, a controlled deficit, we have a public debt projection relative to GDP below 60% and we are fully sticking to those projected parameters that guarantee that we will have a balanced and development budget in 2021. Investment in capital investments. You know, when I talk about this, I always consult with my distinguished colleague Mrkonjic. We have somehow learned from him that without capital investment and infrastructure projects there is no economic development, but in this way Serbia is not only entering economic recovery, it is helping the private sector as well, because the private sector will have work to do. On the other hand, borrowing. Borrowing, Serbia essentially does not leave obligations for generations to come. We are investing in travel infrastructure, and it will certainly benefit everyone in the period ahead. So, the highways are being built, railways are being reconstructed. Also, under the plan "SRBIJA by 2025", as far as I know, it is planned to build a sewage and water network, but we will talk about it when we talk about the budget for 2021. It is good, then, that the implementation of the economic assistance programme is extended. First of all, I mean the promotion in agriculture, but I also think of the hotel industry, because this is one piece of information, you correct me if I'm wrong, I think at the end of the day, this information that relates to the end of the previous month, 312 hotel facilities has raised aid in the amount of 1.229,484.059 thousand dinars. In this way it helped hotelers to keep employees, to overcome this difficult period when working with far reduced, far reduced capacities. On the other hand, when we talk about direct incentives in agriculture, so we were saying that unfortunately this period behind us has shown that when it's difficult you can rely on what are your own resources and relations with traditionally friendly-oriented states. Let's put foreign policy aside at this point, but it's good to put the accent on the farm, because these are our own resources. Agriculture is Serbia's real development opportunity, the village has fed Serbia when it was the most difficult and any additional incentive is the possibility for people to return to live in the country and to deal with food production. So, I think these amendments and the additions to the Budget Law show that Serbia is capable of preserving stability, but as we can see today, there are those who are giving us lectures, and today there are those who are willing to give us directions of criticism and it's not controversial, you know? But there is only one thing to point out, I don't want to do too much, but there is only one point to point out, they have led Serbia to financial collapse and financial bankruptcy, the only stability they have preserved is stability in their private companies. It is not disputed that we listen to suggestions and suggestions, we have heard it here from representatives of the same these, call, political options when they were parliamentary. Today, they're unparliamentary because they didn't have the strength to go to parliamentary elections and show how much they're worth, but we're still ready to look at suggestions and suggestions. You know, when we talk about the budget, it's always about the budget and the budget rebalancing, there's always one fundamental question -- is there an alternative? What's the suggestion? Is there another way and direction Serbia should and can go, while that path and direction are guaranteed to realise the objectives defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are certainly the interest of Serbia, the interest of Serbian citizens, concerning the future of Serbia and concerning the future of each Serbian citizen. If it doesn't exist, and we've never heard it in this House or out of parliament, then we only have criticism for criticism. Just try to make cheap political points that way. There are no political points to such criticism, but through concrete results and concrete indicators, but in 2014 we listened to these criticisms when we laid the foundation together here in the Parliament of the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, they honored that we were withdrawing salaries and pensions, including our socialists, how we could vote for it. Well, we are socialists, but we cannot be socialists of utopians, we cannot vote against something that is not Serbia's interest and is not the interest of Serbian citizens. We listened to those criticisms, and when we talked about, I think, correcting me, Mr. Minister, last year there was no rebalancing, last year we had budget rebalances, but then we listened to criticism because we had a surplus in the budget. So we're not talking about rebalancing because we have the expenditure, we've already had the surplus, and then we say we're putting an end to the fiscal consolidation process, we're opening up a new phase, we're having a new phase, we're redistributing the financial space, we're redistributing the fiscal space. We direct one piece to the citizens' standard of living, to raise wages and pensions, and the other part we direct towards growth and development. And then we suffered criticism, but, okay. That's not how political points are made. Political points, actually citizens' confidence, I don't want to speak to a political dictionary and political vocabulary, but citizens' confidence is through economic indicators of results, and the results are next. The average salary net in the dinars of August 2020 is 58,513,00 dinars. In 2019, it was 54,919 dinars, not to go back several years. The average pension in the dinars in 2019 is 26,343 dinars, and in January and July 2020, 27,769 dinars. The unemployment rate in Serbia, you mentioned it, Mr. Minister, in 2020 in the second quarter of 7.3% and this is a methodology that has been established since 1995. At that time, the unemployment rate, I think, ranged from 12% to 15%, and then came to a sunflower on the labour market, to a disaster from 2003 to 2012. Today we have 7.3%, and in 2013, we had, say, unemployment 25.9%. You were talking about GDP. When it comes to the minimum labour price, in 2020 it is 172.5 dinars. In 2019 155.3 dinars were 155.3 dinars, but from 1 January 2021 the minimum labour price increased by 6.6%, i.e. For about two thousand dinars, so the new labour price will be 183.93 dinars. Public debt, we said, foreign direct investment despite a difficult period despite facing the coronary virus, foreign direct investment for the period from January to August 2020 amounted to one billion 663m euros. Serbia has progressed four places on the World Bank's Doing Business List for 2020 and is taking 44 positions among 190 ranked countries. So these are the facts, these are the indicators. These indicators, these results have been achieved through tremendous effort, work, energy and commitment and no criticism and no factory data or any kind of affair can reduce these results. Of course, in the voting day, we will support the proposed amendments to the Budget Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u476	Thank you. The word is by Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u477	The Honorable President, respected ministers, after the first budget rebalance we adopted in the previous National Assembly meeting, which in fact represented 44 regulations that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2020 had to adopt in order to simply function at the time of the largest pandemic, when Serbia stopped the full economy and life and when the country really cared about Serbian citizens in the best possible way, which proved now to be one of the right decisions, showed that in fact the measures that fell under that part, when I say not only health measures, but the decision to make certain economic measures at a time when no one reacted, where all the countries were in shock because of what was happening and did not respond adequately, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed responded without spot. In December, I will remind you, when the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 was adopted and the plan "SRBIJA 2025" was made, we have made certain decisions that we are indeed going with full force in the development of the Republic of Serbia, into infrastructure projects, in all local self-government, to every citizen to reach those objectives that we have said -- the average salary of 900 euros, the average pension of 440 euros. We meant the standard of Serbian citizens, we meant development. We were also thinking about education and health care, we were also thinking about protecting the environment, but then there was simply the development of the pandemic, namely the Kovida-19 virus, which was unknown to all the countries of the world. This has now proved to be unknown to both the EU and China, both for America and Russia. We've all started to deal with human health and how to organize society so that you can respond adequately to a condition like this that has happened to all countries. When people are suffering from previously unremembered viruses, when simply health systems couldn't respond adequately, when besides the number of infected first you didn't even have the opportunity to see how many people are, in fact, and all of which are suffering from the citizens of your country, we have responded really thanks to the responsible foreign and internal policy of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, who has indeed accepted the decisions of the Crisis Headquarters, which all doctors in this country who know that they are dealing with such difficult issues in society and accepted the greatest part of their responsibility for such a thing. With the first budget rebalance, adopted on 25 April 2020, we have actually ensured that 183,000 companies, which from the private sector, have submitted requests that they are interested in helping them with minimum personal income over the next three months, have shown in fact that the state has the strength and opportunity to take care of them. It was one positive voice, which was, in fact, meant to send all Serbian citizens a message and optimism that the state had taken on a large part of the responsibility for everything that was going on as a consequence of the pandemic in the economy of a state and that through that support it wanted to reduce all the negative effects that have hit us. With this first rebalancing, I will remind you, we have approved this first rebalancing here in Parliament, 1.3 billion euros above what we planned at the end of 2019 for 2020. In these 1.3 billion, 933 million are, in fact, part of the economic measures, which were also related to one-time assistance to the most vulnerable social categories and pensioners, and the part relating to the increase in salaries to health workers and the part we said, which was minimum personal income, which the state gave to support economic operators who could not simply cope with the economically difficult consequences, because they did not work for a month and a half. When we came to 12.5% of GDP, i.e. 5.8 billion euros, we spent to stop Serbia's economic downturn, today when life continued after the state of emergency ended, we saw that the economy was indeed going with one full swing, so that in the third quarter we experienced very high growth rates within this 2020, as it has shown, in fact, that our economy, indeed, so-called economists say, is tough. This means that sectors such as agriculture, such as energy, such as traffic, are somewhere with these economic activities, such as, of course, the production itself, which has continued to work, has shown that it is capable of preserving many jobs. Of course, without the support of the state, that wouldn't be possible. Today we see, in fact, we have the recognition of all international financial organisations, that the measures that the Republic of Serbia has taken were effective, well targeted and comprehensive. So these three adjectives, which are constantly giving us for our economy this year, show essentially that we have really responded in a very responsible and adequate way to all the attacks the pandemic has given us. Today, when we have a second rebalancing, we show that, in fact, this is the result of the very measures that the Republic of Serbia and the government have in the previous term, and the parliament in the previous term that it has passed, have shown that we have been very good, that, first of all, today when we talk about this second rebalancing, we have this basis for good so far run economic policy at the time of the pandemic Kovida-19. Then, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia indeed tried somewhere to valorise through this second rebalancing and what is most important, that we have the formation of a new government with precisely defined new powers, i.e. new ministries. So, the rebalancing is also done when the new government has a new ministry is voted, because it is necessary to define certain financial positions for new ministries, but these new ministries are also defined on the basis of six strategic objectives we discussed here in the Assembly when it was the subject of the Serbian Government's choice and when it was the Law on Ministrys. What is clearly said then is that new challenges await us. We haven't waited long, we've seen these challenges go through the number of infected and sick people when it comes to the pandemic of the coronary virus and when it comes to the economic consequences, whenever that pandemic grows. Every country is in a dilemma about the economy and the pandemic, whether it's going and or whether we're going to define ourselves only for the pandemic, or if we're going to define ourselves just to preserve the economy. That balance and that balance I think the finance ministry, in collaboration with all the newly created ministries, has given and shown, in fact, that this rebalancing has this social category and has this development category. The social one refers to the pandemic, i.e. the positions in the budget, which include equipment, medicines, hospitals and full health care, as well as the part relating to the salaries of health workers themselves, which represent for us one pillar and trust of all Serbian citizens that we will overcome this monster, that is, this difficult period that all countries are going through with the least and/or the easiest consequences, if that is so said. And an economy that must not stand in its full capacity, but must function under new circumstances. The economy, in order to go and have its larger momentum, must make its full contribution when it comes to infrastructure, when it comes to infrastructure projects, when it comes to building hospitals, building roads, when it comes to environmental protection, and that is what the basis is. In almost two weeks, we'll be discussing the 2021 budget. It means that the "Serbia 2025" plan in fact represents, and this rebalancing, one basis for a new budget. When we talk about income through this rebalancing, you'll see that they're up by 46.5 billion, or 3.7%, but that the expenditures we're increasing, and they're within that public debt that's defined by Mastricht, so 56.7% as at this point, the expenditure goes more by 148.6 billion dinars, which is 9.1%, which is the difference that arises from 483 billion is that deficit that is greater by 8.8%. So, it should have been really professionally targeted as much as this deficit is compared to all other countries that are EU countries and we are somewhere, regardless of being EU members, we obviously behave extremely responsibly and we follow how developed countries within the EU do it, although you will admit they have had much worse results when it comes to fighting the Kovid19 pandemic, when you look at the number of people who died, when you look at the pressure on the health system, even though they said they have much more developed health systems in the country. The European Union is fighting today, believe me, with a concept to apply to bring all the economies of the 27 EU member states into line. Let's just say, it was an idea to introduce the so-called. Covid bonds, where Germany strongly opposes such proposals. Then over 450 billion euros were granted by their Central Bank to grant and support such countries. What the Minister responded very well to on the Financial Committee of the Fiscal Council, we are our problem and our support for the entire economy and state subsidies of the economy were from our resources. So, they didn't go through excessive borrowings, through the printing of money, through the increase in inflation, which was happening, you'll admit, and they were a feature of some previous governments before 2008, and where they talked about the challenges of the economy and the global economic crisis, so they quickly printed the money, so they were saving a course that went from 86 dinars to 123 dinars for one euro. In fact, they spent the substance, or property of their own country. This is not how our country acted irresponsiblely, but out of its resources, it simply invested from its incomes, above all, in the so-called. public investment, and you will see, what we heard on the board, that the inflow of foreign direct investment of 1.9 billion euros is 65% state investment. That means they're about 35% private. It has also been shown that these measures, which may be critical, when it comes to these 100 euros were citizens, have actually shown that the models used by world-renowned economists, so-called. The helicopter methods went into direct consumption of our economy and therefore, after the opening of Serbia, after the state of emergency, we had so much economic growth. That's exactly why. It criticises that these measures may not have been well targeted do not stand. Because these results on Serbia's growth, which shows both at the end of this year and next year's projections, that we will have these biggest growth rates, or the smallest drop of all countries, are in fact the result of all of this. Therefore, I think the deficit of 102.1 billion, which represents 8.8% of GDP, or gross social product, is indeed justified. These investments, which are now going as fast as you can see in the infrastructure, when it comes to health care, show that no matter how you projected a certain budget like we did in December, you have to respond to the unforeseen situations extremely responsibly, quickly and efficiently. If it hadn't been for the government's reaction, if it hadn't been for the state's reaction, we would have had big problems today and we wouldn't have, not a drop of minus 0.6% or 0.7 or 0.1, which we think we've set our own goals, but we'd have minus 6%, as countries in the region will have, and some of the most developed economies will go even to minus 12%. So I think the indicator is actually this rebalancing that we are dealing well and responsibly with this pandemic, that we are not giving up on the "SRIBIA 2025" programme, but this is the budget for 2021 where we are going to realize really good infrastructure projects that we have drawn up, that we are creating simple bases where we are going to have a 3% deficit for next year. These are projections, not only of our own, but of the IMF, which tells us that we will go to the level of public debt of 60%, that we will have a high degree of capital investment and, most importantly, that our economic growth from this 2020 to 2021 will be a high growth rate of 6%, which means we will open up the possibility of applying Swiss formulas where pension increases will go to 5.5% for our pensioners. So, this rebalancing is the basis for what has been waiting for us since 1 January 2021, and it would not have been if we hadn't really had a responsible policy both the president of the state and the prime minister and the finance minister and, ultimately, here all MPs who have shown a high degree of responsibility by supporting this government of Serbia and for giving real support for the fight for all the challenges that await us. That is why in the voting day, as SNS and MPs from the list Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, we will support this proposal of rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u478	Thank you. There are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups here on my screen. We're moving on to the list of registered MPs for the word. The first on the list is MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u479	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, in principle, and also in our case, budget rebalancing does not occur from the whim or from some special desire of the government, but because it is an necessity that must be approached, especially when in one year you have access to budget rebalancing, which means that you have extraordinary circumstances, generally known, due to the pandemic of Kovida-19. The consequences to be faced are, among other things, budget rebalancing actions. In this respect, in such situations it is very important that representatives of all political parties, regardless of the different ideological and programming bases, try to put aside what should be their political, marketing point, already focus on what is strategically important in order for citizens to suffer as little as possible the economic and financial consequences. I think we should support this bill's proposal, certainly try, during these discussions today and in the day for discussion in particular, to do what is possible and to correct the proposals we have received. Certainly, the focus and this proposal are two key topics, and this is to try, as far as possible, to protect those most sensitive groups in the economy and help them, as we have had so far interventions, and we expect similar programmes by the end of the year, because it is essential to preserve as many economic operators as possible so that they can actually continue to function after this crisis. The second package of measures or the focus of intervention with this budget should be and is a sector of health care that draws away a lot of money. One significant part of it is possible to predict, but certainly it is not possible to predict everything, because it is not possible to predict waves, their intensity, their duration. As we can see, it just happens, not as we expect, and we don't know how much longer. Certainly, we who in Novi Pazar and Sandzak suffered the most severe blow of Kovid a few months ago have this experience and we want to warn all the citizens of this country and all the factors that can affect the consequences of such a blow that it is an extremely serious thing that must in no way be underestimated. In such situations, all people, all political entities, regardless of all differences, need to be one side and stay away from, as far as possible, party-political views on these issues. Of course, on the other hand, it should not be for a reason to neglect those responsible for certain failures, and when it comes to Novi Pazar, they are both in the local government and in the medical center, because so many hundreds of dead people cannot, for such a short time, be a subject that can be passed over, but I say, to the end, deprived of any politics, but only objectively and with arguments. On the other hand, what I have experienced in the past two months for local government, for example in Sjenica, where I had the opportunity to look into the state of that municipality after 20 and more years after the rule of a party that completely devastated that otherwise poor municipality and where we actually found more than five million euros in debt in the budget, for example, the Municipality of Sjenica, which represents over two-thirds of that debt. Imagine now under the bow and all the blows, which are the result of the pigs, what it's like to carry that municipality. That is why I expect the Ministry of Finance through the budget, but also through other outside budget financing to show attention to such cases and to meet to help these poor ends of this country overcome the challenges and overcome this crisis. Certainly do not forget the crime and corruption mentioned at the highest level, but do not forget the other parts of the country in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u480	Thank you. The next reported one is MP Vladan Glisic. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u481	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I will vote against this proposal for budget rebalancing. You as a ministry and as a government have simply come out of a majority that is in this assembly and has achieved great support for the people, and I believe that the people are not wrong. In that sense, and many of the things that you've predicted here are things that, of course, can be supported, are related to a normal reaction to what happened to the Covid 19 epidemic and the economic consequences, so this is already the second budget rebalance this year. The most beautiful thing on page 237 is how many things there could be supported, such as at the end of the table – spending on obtaining financial assets in order to implement public policies, which are here at the moment and 15 billion dinars, but we know that they refer to support to economic operators in order to achieve liquidity in the moments of the economic consequences of Kovid 19. We also have expenditure on non-financial assets, which is as much as 50 billion dinars, but that's fine, too, because we know that this is how you raise these two significant hospitals in Belgrade and Kruševec. That's what I'd support if this was the only thing in here. On the same side of the table, however, we have expenditures for employees who have increased by 3.5 billion dinars. These expenditures, no matter what the previous figures don't look big, they're big when you think about the budget and the pocket of our taxpayers, and they're for new employment with the users of public funds. We know that SNS is a party carrying out massive, massive campaigns of pressure on voters in their election cycles and that those who are their field activists have an obligation to bring a number of capillaries. Since it's a hard and hard job, since you're a mass party mass pressured by the voters, one day you should reward those activists. It's okay to reward them from your membership fees, but it's not right to reward them in this way by using the budget of that part of the people who didn't vote for you or that part of the people who voted for you or for the opposition, because no one else believes in this system anymore, but this is the budget that belongs to all of them. These are the things that show in this budget that, regardless of what you do and some useful things for this country, because you are in power, you have a huge cookie of government, this monolithic government has long since existed in Serbia, so you must do something good for this people, but you are dragging your party interests through this budget and thus you show that even with this budget the government supports a party monopoly in Serbia. The things that I certainly won't vote for this budget rebalance and which are so obvious are in article 3 on page 35. The public company Elektroprivreda Srbija is running a project for small hydropower plants, which will separate 12mm of 140m euros in 379 euros. Is it those little hydropower plants that have caused such chaos in previous years in Serbia, where many people have stood up because of the environmental disasters they have caused, where some privates have sheltered their interest and received support from the state? There was so much rebellion in public over all of this that I thought we would never meet again, and you're giving them over 12m euros. Article 3. page 8. – Concert hall, 12m euros, and Serbia will provide guarantees to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for a 120m-euro concert hall construction project. Of course, when it's going well and when the results are achieved, we need to build concert halls, but we've just sold Sava Center, and we're detached this amount of money to build a concert hall at a time when the government can't help the caterers who hire over 50,000 people in Serbia without getting any support, don't count on these hotelers, in these situations, but constantly someone calls them and you keep closing their jobs. What's obvious and problematic most of all is a member of page 3 on page 10. - National Stadium, 250m euros. At a time of difficult situations like this, at a time when money needs to be invested in people, you're building a national stadium. I'm not against sports, I'm not against national stadiums, but I know it's also the product of a supernadal model, a mass party that turns its party president into a cult of personalities, and when you have a cult of personalities, then you have grand monuments, grandiose stadiums, even when it's not their time. Make, gentlemen, those national stadiums when this time passes, and don't invest this much money in it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u482	The right to a replica, authorised representative of the Electoral Group, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u483	Dear Chairman, dear colleague, we are not a mass party. We are the SNS that received a high percentage of the votes and trust of Serbian citizens. Therefore, the story of hiring a party on the continuum of raising a employment item actually shows how much you want to use this rebalancing for political purposes. This increase in the item speaks of an increase in salaries for healthcare professionals and this increase in salaries implies both salaries and taxes and contributions, and therefore these items must be increased. You're talking about some abuse of the employment of party personnel with health workers at the time of the pandemic. It's just absurds. People have been tired for a long time, they've been working in systems with infected people, they've been under a lot of pressure for a long time, and that's why we thought as a state that these people should really be given certain financial support. That's the increase. As for the mini hydropower plant and your story about how that item should be abolished, you know, contracts that exist in the fiding tariff, dating back to the previous seven years, since the fiding tariff takes seven years, you as a state are obliged to pay all those who have collected certain documentation, get permission to do so, because otherwise they can sue the state and claim damages. Therefore, legal certainty in this country must exist. All contracts that exist must be respected. Of course, the state is dealing with mini power plants that didn't get permission and consent, simply, people living in the area, and they can't be paid out of the budget because there are no contracts with the state. Don't replace the thesis here to disabling the public with such topics based on certain items in this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u484	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The next person registered for the word is MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u485	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to say, I listened to a lot of sermons because it was sold to the Sava Center. Some politicians told us it was sold for small money, so I don't understand why those who reported having their own property of 25m euros say the Sava Center was sold for small money. Why didn't they buy it? While the gentleman was mayor of Belgrade, he could at least invest a little in the same Sava Centre and become attractive, as they tell us it is a symbol of the city of Belgrade. No, people, this concept so, such congressional halls may have once been magnificent in the time of Comrade Tito, today it is no longer so and I am a cruel supporter of capitalism in this matter. I consider the state a bad owner. It's always better to be a private, but the real private who respects the laws, not what we've had since 2000, savage capitalism, when we literally had a robbery of businesses. That's why I want to say hello to the sale of the Sava Center, because it's something that's good for Belgrade and good for the state, and we're finally going to get an object that will have some purpose and some purpose and that the private investor will definitely invest money to make money. That's probably the logic of private capital. But I don't want to talk about it. The budget rebalance, I have to admit, I don't like what it's done, but the pandemic has ruined all of humanity, so it's ruined us anyway, and that's what I have to say, with what I have to admit, with the reserve, I'm looking at this Kovid and everything that's being applied. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Mali, you're a minister, I'd like to ask the Crescent Staff personally to stop spreading panic. I understand the danger of Kovid, I'm not someone like these on the extreme right pole who's going to say that the country is a flat panel, which will say that Kovid doesn't exist, etc. Yeah, he exists, he is dangerous, but by spreading the panic that we're dying, how it's going to maim us all, how he's going to cut us all up, etc., so we're essentially killing our economy, people. It'll turn out in the end, if we don't die of Kovid, we'll die because there's no one to do anything. I think that there Trump was even quite right, when he said – people, more people will die of recession, or destruction of the economy than will die of the pandemic. We have to take care of the economy, people have to work here. We're constantly threatening closures here. What kind of black closing? Oh, I'm sorry, what's someone to take a salary from? That budget is filled with these people who work, of these caterers, these hotelers. What, are we gonna threaten them every day to shut them down? I have to admit, I'm very reserved under the Protection Act that's coming here because there are very large reserves from the legal point of view I have against him, the Law on Infectious Diseases. I'd like to ask you to think about it. Let's raise awareness of how dangerous Kovid is, and let's not threaten people with how we punish them, how we're going to impose sanctions on someone, because this country has to work, and economics is something that matters most. You know, just take the next situation, what if this takes 20 years? We want 20 years to close schools, we want 20 years of every cultural institution to shut down, theater, stadiums, etc.? By the way, it takes a new stadium to build, because that stadium attracts other investments. Today, stadiums are no longer just for playing football, but there is an absolute economy in many other areas, from catering, from various services sales, etc., and new settlements are being built around these stadiums. Look at the stadium, say Totenham, a billion and 100 million pounds they invested in that stadium. Do you know how much Totenheim exploded and how much that neighborhood blew up there? Every major English club has invested and built a big stadium. Because it attracts various other branches of the economy, and that's why it's very important. I believe that if Surcin is there, as I understand it, the stadium will explode in terms of the economy, because many investors will go there, it will become the most attractive settlement and perhaps the most attractive part of Belgrade. That's why it's necessary to build something like that, by the way, to say that our clubs can't play in these stadiums anymore. European competitions require some new rules, a new stadium. I can't have the Star anymore, or Partizan playing in the kind of stadium they have today. That's how, inevitably, the world is developing, the world is changing. On the other hand, I would like to congratulate you on how you, in the pandemic era and the absolute expansion of panic, have maintained our economy, Mr. Mali. After all, the whole world admits it, and that's where we have to say, well done. I'm just asking you to continue investing in infrastructure, in roads, in new factories, to bring in new investors. There's nothing more beautiful than going through Serbia and seeing the chimney smoke somewhere, and working somewhere, going to work in the morning. You know, in their day, people didn't go to work at all. Why? Because they didn't have anywhere to work. They destroyed every factory, paid people not to work. We had state-owned companies that failed, but then to buy social peace, they were giving money to a well without a bottom to people who didn't work anywhere. People work today, people are busy, they go to work, we produce something and we export. We people are exporting today compared to their period when we didn't export anything. We were in total ruin. I really want to congratulate you, after all I congratulate you all of Europe, the whole world congratulates you. All international institutions say we will have the slightest fall. It's terrible when we have to say we're going to have a fall at all, but we're going to have the slightest fall and the greatest chance to recover. Look at the countries in the region, in a complete economic collapse. But someone here took care of the economy, so please as someone who takes care of our finances first of all, appeal to us not to close anything. Don't let people lock anyone up, or sanction, or punish anyone. Let the economy work, and we'll get through this. After all, we see that Kovid is at the very least, I will say politically abused in humanity. Because, as we can see, suddenly after the election in America, a vaccine appeared. Before the election, if someone had announced it, I believe these Beaden Democrats would have done the bombing of that factory, just so it wouldn't have appeared sooner. And now that we see the media declaring the winners, when we see that the media is establishing who's going to rule somewhere, we see that suddenly there are vaccines. Very interesting, I don't want to go into conspiracy theories, but it's extremely symptomatic. Speaking of media, you know, we have an abnormal situation today. Today, a political option, actually with one lady, is going in front of a television show to demonstrate because some singer on the show was insulting or whatever he was doing to a journalist, editor of a television show. How come they didn't remember when they beat up the very supporters of that politician who went there to protest, how they didn't remember to demonstrate when they beat up Gordana the Taker for example? Or Maru Dragovic? How come they didn't go to the demonstration then? How come all of a sudden when they have their projected journalists who have to be protected like white bears, who no one can say anything, then go and hold protests. Otherwise, I'm an absolute opponent of all possible insults and anything, but you know what, we're all public figures, when they lynch President Vukic's family, I guess that's perfectly normal. When his son is shown as a criminal, I guess it's perfectly normal. And imagine if we organized ourselves to go protest in front of N1 television. We would be told – shame on you, pressure on independent media, I don't know what you're doing, but that's why it's perfectly normal for them to come in front of one television and make a protest. You see, people, that's what's scary. We today have similar and unspeakable media and one media can declare the winners in the elections, set up governments, destroy other governments, and I don't suppose these others have the right to bring any guests, or anyone who will say anything, which is opposed to the opinion of these "mein strim" media. I don't want to live in such a humanity, I want to fight it because it's not normal. I don't want the media to set up presidents for me, I don't want the media to dictate who I choose, that's what citizens do in the election. I sincerely hope that we will deal with this so that there is indeed real democracy in the government, not what the media wants, at least not the "mein stream" media. As far as the budget rebalancing itself is concerned, I would like as little resources to be allocated as possible, especially through the culture ministry for various pointless projects just as some NGOs and media have given you. Otherwise, I'm a major opponent of any media funding by the state. If you're on the market who's watching you and who's following you, so make a living, not asking the state, but whatever, I hope that'll work out someday. Anyway, I want to congratulate you on maintaining the economy one more time and just keep going like this. All praises, I will certainly vote for this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u486	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Next reported for the word Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u487	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, to speak about budget rebalancing, I cannot help but look back at the year, which is almost already behind us, but also try to create a picture of what is yet to come. In 2020, it was definitely the year Corona, who completely kicked us out of the track. Not only us, but the whole world, and no matter how hard we tried to be optimistic at first, the reality of things was that optimism wasn't really helpful, it was quick, efficient and pragmatic. During the year 2020 already half of March, the state managed to consolidate and organise responses to the pandemic crisis. There were no shortages of basic life supplies, and very quickly problems with the supply of chemical and disinfective products and masks were resolved. During the pandemic crisis, a large number of young doctors, healthcare professionals and medical staff received employment. The state has helped a number of companies in the form of reliefs concerning the postponement of taxes and contributions, as well as the profit tax. Banks gave citizens the possibility of a moratorium paying off loans. All full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia received one-off aid of 100 euros in dinar equivalent, and I think that this measure and, above all, had this positive psychological impact on the citizens. The only regret is that, unfortunately in the long run, there has been no removal of the effects of the crisis on that poorer population. In moments of closing the world, domestic tourism records growth, thanks to the excellent solution of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications in the form of vouchers, i.e. subsidized travel across Serbia. During the state of emergency, the first budget rebalance identified two billion dinars for additional subsidisation, out of which 900 million were allocated to help city hotels. What most of us probably didn't expect, that the pandemic crisis would take this long. Unfortunately, the end is not yet in sight. So, as important as it is now to talk about preventing the spread of the virus, I think it's even more important to talk about ways to save and preserve our economy and our economy. The new budget rebalance envisions total revenues of one billion 294m dinars, expenditures of one billion 774m dinars, or a four billion-euro deficit. The proposed rebalancing shows that in 2021 there will also be years of challenges. The most important challenge that awaits us is to prevent and stop public debt growth and correct certain irregularities in the budget. According to the Fiscal Council's assessment, new measures should be selective and temporary. According to the government's report, which we have received, priorities are this budget rebalance, further investment in health care and health care, building new Kovid hospitals. The reconstruction of the Nis Clinical Center has been completed. The reconstruction of the work of the “Serbia” Clinical Centre and the “Vojvodina” Clinical Centre is under way. Works on reconstruction of the Kragujevac Clinical Centre are awaited. I'm sure it's very important to invest in health care, especially now, but it should also be approached in a plan, looking at long-term effects. Accordingly, I also believe that it is of national importance to complete the construction of the Centre for Excellence in Kragujevac, because you know that genetics is the future of medicine, it is said by many experts in the area, and that using stem cells in the treatment of numerous diseases and conditions is something that needs to be pursued. Also, investment in innovation is something Serbia should be proud of. So important was the project of the University of Kragujevac, the Biochemical Engineering Centre, where a young team of scientists, led by their professors, developed a software for monitoring the virus and a very innovative solution for creating a respirator on a 3D printer. That respirator has the same purpose as commercial, but it's ten times cheaper. When we talk about investing in health care, then the list of priorities should certainly include investing in ecology. It is another important challenge at the Ministry of Environmental Protection to figure out how to invest in innovative solutions in the fight against air pollution. Healthy air must be a priority, because everything that happens right now, and it concerns the quality of the air that we breathe, leaves, I'm sure, the lasting consequences of human health, but also the future of the country. According to the Fiscal Council's assessment, the decline in GDP will be lower than most European countries, thanks to the structure of the domestic economy, which is made up of food production. It is also an indication that it must continue to invest even more in agriculture. The challenge is certainly also at the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, how to adequately address the problems faced by tourist workers, tourist agencies and hosts, their requirements, which mainly relate to the reduction of VAT rates, write down a part of taxes and contributions, obtaining guarantees on future travel. The important role of the state, I believe, is that it is also in the way of selective application of epidemiological measures in the cities of Serbia, because if this does not happen, I am sure that the economy and economy will suffer even more in the future than it is today. During the presentation, I have mentioned the word – innovation, and I really think that there is one part of the solution to the problem. Belt-tightening – yes, but where there is room and where there is opportunities. But when it comes to investing in innovation, in innovation, in investment, I believe that this can lead to a reduction in deficits in 2021, which is the goal of responsible fiscal policy. You know how one wise man said – investing in knowledge brings secure interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u488	Thank you. Next reported for word is Nadia Beqiri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u489	Dear citizens, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, honored present, as this session discusses budget rebalancing, I would like to introduce you to the current situation in the municipality of Bujanovac, i.e. the financial losses of the local self-government budget due to the pandemic of the infectious disease Kovid 19. Service activities have been very weak or in no way doing business. To the most extent, catering facilities have been affected, and hence their income, and local self-government, are reduced to a minimum in the area of gastronomy. The rebalancing of the government's co-ordination body of the Republic of Serbia's government plans for 20% reduction for the municipality of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. The first thing I would ask you to do is to return the funds mentioned by rebalanced budget to the level before the reduction, which is 50 million dinars for the municipality of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje. According to me, at the end of each financial year, a certain portion of the funds is allocated from the budget reserve and allocated to local self-government. In the Bujanovac municipality, there was always a small part of the funding in terms of needs, but also of other local self-governments from the same group of development and with the same or smaller population. For example, last year, according to this budget reserve, the municipality of Bujanovac was allocated 10 million dinars, and some municipalities with a smaller population of up to five times as many. Since I heard in the previous sessions that the need for undeveloped municipalities with mixed populations is being taken into account, I am taking this opportunity to get to know you that the Bujanovac municipality has sent a request to the Ministry of Finance to allocate the necessary amount of liquidity from the budget reserve. It is my announcement that you now approve this request and that, through the development of a quality budget rebalancing, we help overcome this difficult year, both in health terms and in all other spheres. Although we have pleaded against, our final position will depend on the outcome of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u490	The next time you sign up for a word, it's Anna Belloica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u491	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is an honor and a pleasure to have the opportunity to address myself today for the first time in this high house and, of course, I will take the opportunity to thank Mr Alexander Vukic and the SNS for having given me this honor. I can't leave out one important thing, which I don't think was mentioned by any of my younger colleagues, which is that I, along with twenty young people sitting in these assembly benches, was a member of the first generation of the Academy of Young Leaders, which was created as a result of Mr. Vukic's idea of bringing young people into political life. We are here to introduce new knowledge, new energy, spirit and to fight for our country, for our economy and for the future of our children. Apropo of this struggle, I believe the government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved exceptional results over the past period. We have managed to achieve the highest rate of economic growth in Europe. It's a historic moment for Serbia, I have to underline it. It is a historic moment for Serbia, because Serbia has never happened to be the first in Europe for something, at least positive. Also, regardless of what has been happening around the world, we have managed, thanks to the state's measures, to preserve our economy, to preserve jobs and to achieve a record low unemployment rate of 7.3%. What may be most important is that during the period of the crown crisis we have managed to preserve the lives and health of our citizens and, of course, the entire health system of our country. All of this took good public finances during the past period, as well as fiscal consolidation measures implemented in 2014, when Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy, and when unfortunately no one believed in reforms. Today we can boast of stable public finances that can meet the needs of all our citizens and, of course, provide adequate and quality living conditions. We have before us a debate on the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which I will support, of course, with the rest of my parliamentary group, because I believe it contains all the necessary measures that are needed to help those who need it most, especially when we talk about this period of the crown crisis. As we could see, the expenditure on medical equipment and medicines has been increased to provide adequate health care to our citizens, on the one hand, and capital investment has been increased, so that we can give an additional impulse for GDP growth, in order to maintain this prestigious place, the first place at the rate of economic growth in Europe. Of course, this defined budget rebalancing is also the first necessary initial step, so to express myself, in order to realize the six basic objectives that we have recently set before the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are certainly: the fight to preserve the lives and health of our citizens, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the fight to preserve independence, the implementation of reforms, the protection of vital Serbian interests in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and the fight for economic prosperity and progress. That is why I call on MPs of all parliamentary groups to support the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that we can continue to fight for our economy, for our jobs, for new investments, for the health and lives of our citizens and all that is best for us, because only what is best for Serbia is good enough. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u492	I thank and congratulate you on your first presentation in the National Assembly. The next reported one is Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u493	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's draft law amending and supplementing the 2020 Budget or Rebalancing Act and the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support the draft law. I want to say that primarily in front of Serbia, there are major challenges, the fight against the pandemic of the coronary virus, then the economy at the time of the pandemic, the struggle for bigger salaries, the larger pensions, the infrastructure projects are just some of the challenges that Serbia faces in the coming period. Serbia, ministers, has been taking big steps since 2012. This is due to Aleksandar Vukic, Ivica Dacic, but I must also say Dragan Markovic Palma, who showed on one hand that no one must be a minister or a senior official of the government in order to successfully represent Serbia in the world. Whoever visited the country during the previous period, built additional bridges of friendship with the country and additionally opened the door to Serbia's further co-operation with the country. When I say once again – Serbia is taking big steps forward, many parameters are in favour. First, the whole world is faced with the pandemic of the virus, many economies are experiencing major declines, and Serbia has proved to be a stable country, which thinks about every citizen of its country, and our doctors, our entire health system has proved to be more successful than many European countries that have been much better ranked on the scales as far as the health system is concerned. On the other hand, when we talk about the government of the Republic of Serbia, it has in the previous period shown great responsibility towards population policy, on the other hand to migration. Minister, I have to tell you, we're getting rid of all these good results that Serbia has achieved in the previous period if we don't have a successful population policy. This government is going that way forward as well. I have to say that the family is a pillar of every society and we need even greater measures to encourage the birth of the first, second, and every next child. You, Minister, know that Jagodina is a good example, that a local self-government must take things into its own hands as far as this is concerned. They've come across a series of population measures that each year we have two departments higher in Jagodina. Then, what is really important to us is the protection of the interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. When I say this, I mean what was signed in 2013, it is a community of Serb municipalities, and on the other hand, the enormous diplomatic activity of Ivica Dacic and President Aleksandr Vukic, as many as 18 countries, has withdrawn recognition of the quasi state, the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. At this point, out of 193 countries that are members of the United Nations, as many as 96 countries do not recognise this false creation, on the other hand 92 admits, and five countries are in some position to say a fluid attitude, not vote for it to say a false state. Also, what is most important to us, the Serbian Army and police have been significantly modernised in recent years, and the Serbian Army is a significant deterrent factor for anyone who thinks they can commit aggression on our country. When I say modernized, care for every soldier, care for every cop, but what's significant to us, that even since 1970, we haven't had one powerful PVO system, and now we've got a Pancir-S1, then an MIG 29 squadron, helicopters, but also the achievements of our dedicated industry. When I say "Lazar", "Milos", "Fire" etc. I'm going back to economic issues, Minister, to say that we are in a time of severe economic crisis that has affected the whole world. Here, you correct me, and according to what the IMF said these days, the whole world about world trade at the end of 2020 will be over 10%, or 10.4%, exactly. The most affected will be the automotive industry, then the electricity industry, and on the other hand the services sector including tourism, which will not have an expected level due to reduced demand. So we said, because of this corona of the virus, the great economy will have huge declines, but not us. We'll have, I'll say, the first place in Serbia. Our economic growth or decline will be at minus 1%, and what that result is saying and the fact that many major economies will go even to minus 12%. On the other hand, our public debt here is said to be 5.7%, Minister, but I think we talked about it at the end of the year, it's going to be about 59%. Right? But I'll pay you back only at the time of 2016, we didn't seem to be telling me about it well on the board that Serbia's public debt was 84%. It's a level that's about the countries in the environment at this point. But we have to say that some of the stronger economies have over 70% and even one Greece over 200%, right, if I'm not wrong. This all goes hand in hand with how far Serbia is moving forward and where we are at this point in relation to all other countries and to those unbelieving Tome who talk a little differently, maybe they don't understand each other very well. Also, what's significant to me in the second quarter, we had 7.3% unemployment, and that's where I'd drop you off at a time when we had 26% unemployment. So look at 26% and 7.3% where Serbia is right now. We have a stable monetary policy, we have a fiscal policy stable, we're going to be the only country in the world, let's say at this point that at this time of crisis when many economies fall, we're going to have an increase in wages and pensions, and that when we talk about pensions, the growth is going to be 5.9%. What matters is we'll have safe pensions next year. Maybe for our older citizens who are watching this, we should say what that Swiss model means, everyone's talking about it, so pensions will be aligned with 50% inflation and 50% of the average profit growth. That's what's waiting for us next year, but since 2022, we're going to have a different way of saying, raising pensions. That different way, means we're going to get bigger pensions and we're going towards what you just said to be 2025, when the projected salary is 900 euros, and pensions are going to be over 400 euros. That's what Serbia is and what Serbia is going to do, I say, with big steps ahead. On the other hand, this year, and in the past year, it is important that Serbia's results have also been affected by the growth of agriculture, and it has further pushed Serbia forward. What is also important when you say there is no strong Serbia, there is no strong country unless it has a strong economy. I have to say that at this point Serbia attracts even, if I'm not mistaken Ministers, correct me, 60% of the investment in the region as a whole, or just before we heard it is 1.9 billion at this point, but by the end of the year that investment will be at 2.5 billion. That's what's waiting for us at the end of the year. Minister, it seems to me that no one mentioned it here at the end, and I would have to say that a very important thing for Serbia, but for the whole region is regional association, too, or as we say "mini Schengen". What does that mean, practically? That according to the World Bank estimates and the research they've been doing, it is said that in the event of the founding of the "mini Schengen" some savings due to trade, it means, because of what we would do up to 14%, so see what that would mean not only for our economy but for the whole region here. Of course, at the very end to say that from all this I have said it is seen that Serbia is moving forward, it is seen that in each segment we are progressing and, of course, the JS parliamentary groups in the voting day and will support budget rebalances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u494	Thank you. The word is Emesh Uri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u495	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SVM parliamentary group will support other budget rebalances because we believe that available resources are directed at those key points that are most important for the control of the pandemic, i.e. to provide the necessary equipment for health institutions, but also for the restoration and construction of covid hospitals. Let's not forget the increase in health care workers' salaries. This pandemic at the world level has created a new situation, because it has given way to the health systems of far richer states that have much more resources materially than our country has. It kind of makes us think. Let me tell you, as a doctor, as a medical director, that this fight against the pandemic is not going to work out just thanks to the material investment in equipment, in the infrastructure, we need people. So it's much more important that we have motivated workers and that's why it's very important that there's been an increase in healthcare workers' salaries by 10%. The important thing is that work on indefinitely received 3300 healthcare workers, mostly doctors and nurses. Most of them have already worked at health institutions for a while. It is very important that 120,000 health workers will receive 10,000 dinars by the end of the year, and I note again, the necessary investments in infrastructure, in equipment, are important for health institutions to function in the right way. However, we think it is very important to improve the positive professional image of healthcare professionals, that the life of young doctors who are the longest in their studies, do not forget the studies of a doctor for six years, these are basic studies. After these six years or at the end of the study, these young future doctors are already starting to learn German, English, in Vojvodina, Hungary, to go after bread with their stomachs. I think we in the SVM think it's much more important to ensure in this country some future for these young people, so that they can design their family and professional lives, make them come true, move in this country. To return to the pandemic, the pandemic has shown that this health system that drives far less material resources than it manages to resist in the west thanks to a well-organized network of primary health care, or a network of health homes. It's a system we've inherited from the old Yugoslavia and we haven't allowed it to collapse. Don't forget that the chosen doctor, or I hope you have a future family doctor in every small environment as close as possible to every citizen of ours. How important that the patient recovers is that at one given moment, the sooner he reaches triage, the discovery of the disease, and the majority of the homes of health, i.e. the hospital staff, were taken over. We believe that it is important in this direction to continue to develop diagnostic options for the homes of health, so the more things to do on the original, first contact, on the primary, the more treatment ends, the more treatment ends at the primary because this pandemic has shown how important it is to make triage, the more diagnostic therapeutic procedures have returned to the homes of health, because there is a fear, an infection into the hospital. Health homes should continue to be developed in this direction. So they can be both for screenings and for triage and diagnostics and for treatment, primarily and most importantly. However, the regulatory norms, the legal norms that regulate the number of selected doctors, mean those little doctors around us, are obsolete. So, it is foreseen for 1600 adults, but our population is getting older, getting sicker, we have more and more single nursing households not only in small communities, especially in Vojvodina and in southern Serbia, but also in cities. So you need to think about that direction to improve this system, modern, to look at the personnel plans, norms, and to meet the needs. In front of the SVM, we think that this is how we're going to improve life in small areas. These small environments can in some way be an incentive to improve life and in large cities, because I suppose Belgrade residents can't always go to their elected doctors because of the crowds. So that number on the primary level should definitely be changed. Access to health services is a measure of well-being, quality criteria and should be done, the system improved. Many, once vital, settlements in Vojvodina lost their population, aged population, fell below the normative level of 1,600 adults, and that local self-government would still provide a whole doctor in those populated cities, it is necessary to do so by means of their means. This way money is lost and is not invested in infrastructure, equipment is not purchased. That's another reason why this needs to be solved at the state level. Also, on this occasion, I would like to point out the importance and recognition and evaluation of non-medical personnel working in health institutions. We're all talking about doctors, sisters who worked day and night. Don't forget, nothing could be done without a driver, no maids, no cooks, no carriers and no administrative workers, and they get, when compared to the economy, a much smaller amount at the end of the month than they do in the economy. Finally, just to confirm that the SVM will support the budget's rebalancing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u496	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u497	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, above all, I would like to say that the SPS will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2020 Budget Act. We will support this law because we believe that it is a good law in which in an objective, the right way responds to everything that is happening around the world, and also in Serbia, that it is one of the good government's reactions to the Kovida-19 pandemic in the world and its effects here in Serbia. In fact, if we look at what has been happening in the world since January of this year, and to this day, we can say without much thought that the basic characteristic of the spread of Kovid and the consequence that he has left everywhere in the world and in relation to those estimates given by world officials from the World Health Organization, to other individual countries, is that the basic characteristic of unpredictability. So it can almost be said with certainty that all those estimates that were made in February, March, April or later months have unfortunately not proved accurate and justified. This applies not only to the World Health Organization, but also to other countries. Here, on today, November 10, 2020, Kovid-19 51,345,000 people were infected in the world. Unfortunately, a million and 271 people died. This speaks of the uncontrollable spread of Kovid and the inability of the countries to properly respond to everything the pandemic has caused, and the consequences are multiple and unfortunately negative, both globally and locally. When looking at the global plan, stopping the movement of goods, people, it also caused a stalemate in the country's economic activity and on the international agenda and individually and numerous other negative measures. A number of industrial branches have simply been halted and have had their negative effects, not only the interruption of production, but unfortunately the loss of jobs, the interruption of business, the inability of the state to pay off certain obligations to its citizens, i.e. many countries in the world are not in a position to meet all those allegations in documents that practically regulate the lives of people, the Constitution and other legal acts. I must say that the Republic of Serbia... There's one logical question why we're doing budget rebalances next time this year. I think Serbia has found the right measure in relation to everything that has been happening to us since the beginning of the year. Although we are a small country in world terms, it seems to me that we have reacted with a very smart policy both in March of the month and in April and throughout this period so far, and when we look at the structure of this budget rebalance and what the minister was saying here in his presentation, but also in the previous days, representing this budget rebalance, apparently the Republic of Serbia has a plan and what is further in 2021. If we wanted to draw just one line and say the general figures, we could say that the budget rebalance envisions 1,291 billion dinars of income, 1,774 billion expenditures, that the deficit will be 483 million dinars or 8.70%, instead of some previously planned 0.7%. I say this as planned, because the Republic of Serbia, meanwhile, has taken many steps to prevent the consequences of Kovida-19. We need to remember everything the first package of measures, which the government of the Republic of Serbia took in April of the month, was then applied at the level of the Republic of Serbia. I have to mention this because it's all part of the budget and part of this story today, five minimum earnings paid for over a million employees in the private sector, a shift in taxes and contributions over four months, 200 million loans through the Development Fund and cheap loans precisely for the private sector which, of course, is allowed to survive the Kovid-19 pandemic. We should also remind ourselves that by 10% the salary has been increased for all health employees, because in this way the state has given recognition to those people most engaged in countering the spread of Kovid-19 and helping the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to preserve health and assistance, which has been allocated, from 4,000 dinars of one-time assistance to all of our oldest citizens. Of course, all citizens, who wanted to do so, also received 100 euros to help overcome the existing situation. All this has had an objective impact on the country's economy. We should remember that in the first quarter of this year, GDP growth in Serbia was 5.1%. At that time, the effects of the birds could not yet be felt, but also in the second quarter, because of everything that has been happening since March of the month and beyond, there was a drop in GDP by 6.4%. Of course, the global crisis is still going on and it has consequences for us. When looking at this budget rebalance, its main objectives are concern for human health, the continuation of the investment cycle and the help of businesses and the economy to pay off employees' earnings. If we add to the main objectives other elements that include the regular payment of all the government's obligations towards lower levels of government with social and other givings and realisation of previously launched infrastructure and other projects, then it can be understood that Serbia is doing well, that it is taking measures at the time of the pandemic. Of course, it would not have been possible if the government of the Republic of Serbia had not worked very successfully years ago. We had a four-year surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This year, because of what's been going on, and I've already mentioned it, unfortunately, the situation is different. There is another element that still speaks about the strength of our economy, which is the fact that, according to data, 1.9 billion euros in foreign investment was invested in the Republic of Serbia for nine months and the data that seems to me to have been mentioned by the minister, that unemployment in the second quarter was 7.2%, all this says that the government is taking good measures and simply reacts very successfully to the consequences of Kovida-19. What I am personally looking forward to is that in this budget rebalancing for 2020, two areas of life, if I may say, are projected as those areas where additional investment of money will be made, above all, it is health care, and the other area is infrastructure. When we talk about health care, we heard today that two Kovid hospitals are being made – one in Kruševec and the other here in Belgrade and nine billion dinars have been allocated for these purposes. I think it's very important, not just because the virus is present, we don't know how long, we don't know when we're going to get the vaccine, we don't know what amounts of vaccines will be available on the world market, because, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's not unknown that this small number of countries in the world are able to produce the vaccine, the others will have to wait. I know that in time, the government has taken steps to provide all those vaccines that have passed all the expert checks and that have been verified as high-quality that we're going to get, but there's a question of what quantities and things like that. It is quite logical to make two new Kovid hospitals, but a good move in investment in health care is what is planned and the reconstruction of a large number of general hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia for the purchase of medical equipment, for the purchase of medicines. We should not forget, unfortunately there are people who suffer from other diseases, we should not forget that they are also the subject of our country's health care. It should not be forgotten that they deserve the exact same level of health care as others. The construction of one Kovid hospital can free some other premises, or other health facilities and parts of these facilities for the treatment and care of these people and tomorrow when Kovid ceases to be a danger here in Serbia, then Kovid hospitals can, I say, get another purpose. I'm saying this because our country and our health care has shown great vitality in these months of fighting Kovid and has shown one good organization, vitality, competence, and deserves really the highest marks. I think it's a good thing the state invests this much in health care and through these changes and additions to the 2020 Budget Law. The other thing is infrastructure. I think it's a good thing the state spends this much money on infrastructure, to improve the road, to improve rail infrastructure. The end is planned, the increase is also related to road transport, traffic safety, the allocations for JP "Serb Roads", for "Coridor", are projected to rehabilitate roads and other non-financial enterprises. Of course, there's been an increase in the outcome here. This is mentioned, someone may find it dry, but the value of what the government is doing by detaching money for the realisation of these infrastructure projects can be seen if, of course, it provides easier transport, but it helps both the development of trade and other business activities and has a higher goal. Also, the construction of the Obrenovac-Lig highway and the allocation of funds. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that the amendments to the 2020 Budget Law confirm both by this ministry and by the government the commitment to the implementation of the objectives mentioned by President Vukic, but also mentioned by the Prime Minister in his exposé here a few days ago. I will single out only these first two, it is optimal protection for the population from Kovid 19 and the continuation of economic development and the accelerated economic development of the country. When looking at the structure of these amendments and the addition of the budget law for 2020 of this word that I mentioned, but even more what is contained in the document that we are discussing today, because there is a very detailed indication of what the funds are allocated to, then it is understood that this law, or its adoption, absolutely guarantees by meeting these objectives. If we look at it, or not if we look at it, we heard the minister announce that the 2021 budget will be allocated to large funds for capital investments, to foster domestic development and consumption, and that the projection is that we have a deficit of 3% and that it will be below 60% of public debt participation. It then speaks of one responsible behaviour and the Ministry of Finance and the plans of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we add to this all those activities that the state is working on regional and other plans, that through "mini Schengen" it is possible to make people move, goods, capital, then it is logical to expect that this will also help improve our economic situation. Of course, there is this sense of others, to say, both the projects and the measures being applied, but all this together says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia knows what it is doing at the time of the pandemic, that in an adequate way it finds answers to the challenges it faces, and the challenges are not small, are not numerous. Take any area that is not only about money, but also about the organization, you will see that we are applying good measures. Recently, a colleague asked me, say, about education measures, and I have listed a sense of countries around the world that apply similar measures that we apply. I mean, every country manages in its own way taking into account capacities, I say, both administrative and educational and all the others and, of course, the ability to react in some situation. I think Serbia has met those goals well, has passed a good exam. I think you can see all this through this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, and that's why our parliamentary SPS Group in voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u498	Thank you. The word is Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u499	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, we have a second budget rebalancing this year. Why is the other we've already heard. The Minister of Explanation was very detailed. In front of us is very detailed and contentable material and what I particularly wish to point out, the leader of our party, academician Muamer Zukorlic, has already pointed out that we will vote in the voting day for this rebalancing. Why are we going to vote is, in front of the challenge that we and the entire planet and all society faced, except for the fight for health, which is priority number one, priority number two was certainly a battle for jobs. The package, a set of economic measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is something we must certainly welcome, primarily when it comes to the most sensitive group of our society, these are our pensioners, when it comes to supporting all citizens and citizens of 100 euros. In particular, what I want to point out is to increase the personal incomes of people who are employed in health care, who are truly our heroes, who brought this fight out and today are fighting this monster that our society and the entire planet face. What I also want to point out as one very positive thing is a set of measures of support for people who are employed in tourism, catering, hotelers because it is really a brand of which many citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia live, which is really affected by the crisis that has hit our society. This set of measures is really necessary for them to survive. What I must point out and what I do not agree with is a reduction in the resources of the national councils of the national communities. We believe that this is evidence of democracy, proof of the rule of law, proof of relations between both the government and the state towards minority nations living in the Republic of Serbia. Instead of cutting budgets, we have to do one fundamental control here. I don't know how many ministers, how many governments know that certain national councils have become party services, where budgets are adopted, budgets are spent, and that members, members of the National Council absolutely don't know how to withdraw mandates, that opposition committees in certain national councils don't pay contributions which are mandatory under the National Councils Act. You can imagine what would happen if an MP here in the Republika Srpska Assembly didn't make any contributions. What I particularly want to point out is that we have here in the rebalancing of a treated individual institution, such as the GAC, such as the "Deaths", such as "The People's Front", and that's good why we allocate funds for those institutions that we all need in this country. But I want to point out that we need to pay particular attention to hospitals and health homes in Sandzak, especially in Prepolje, Priboj, Novi Varosha, because we have a maternal relationship of the Užice Health Center towards these hospitals, and according to the statistics at this point, the most infected per capita of Kovid 19 we have in these municipalities, means that directly these hospitals and homes of health are being helped. I spoke about the situation in Novi Pazar and the need to build a clinical center several times in previous discussions. Also, what I want to point out, we mentioned in this rebalancing and certain cities and municipalities. I have no doubt that financial assistance from the budget through the rebalance is necessary, but what we haven't treated with this rebalance, we have to treat with a new budget. These are also municipalities and cities in Sandzak, mostly municipalities and cities that are devastated areas. All citizens and citizens living in that area are very hard to live on. We highlighted the problem of the Sjenica municipality where the debt of the Sjenica municipality at this point is almost two-thirds of the budget. We know how harsh winters are there, how hard it is to live and if they do not have the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, it is a very big challenge for them to face the winter of citizens living on the Cave to endure. It's the same situation when I talk about the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varosh. These are devastated municipalities and the finance ministry must have a special treatment for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u500	Thank you. Next reported for the word, Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u501	Thank you. The respected chairman, ministers, co-workers and fellow MPs, analyses the draft amending and supplementing the 2020 Budget Law, gives the impression that its adoption creates conditions for implementing public finances tasks in Serbia. First, under the terms of the pandemic, which in all segments of society causes negative economic movements both on global and in our country, the rebalancing certainly enables the location of funds that provide uninterrupted funding, so I can say freely, the struggles to preserve the health and life of people. The second, no less important task, is to reduce the negative consequences of the economy and the lives of citizens who, unless they react in a timely manner, can feel all the negative effects that the pandemic of the virus causes. As you know, in early April of this year, the Serbian government adopted a programme of economic measures to reduce the negative effects caused by the pandemic to preserve the standard and liquidity of the economy and the population, with the aim of achieving a positive effect on the launch of a comprehensive economic activity in our country. The fact is that the economic crisis is affecting the whole world at the moment and is in no way challenging the basic model of capitalist economy, i.e. the market economy. However, I have to mention that the social democratic model of fiddling implies that the market is often not in itself enough by self-regulating the mechanism and that the state, especially in the conditions of the crisis that we have today, must be special to the corrective instruments. The budget rebalance we're talking about today is one of them. The way the state intervenes to warn the negative effects of the pandemic is consistent with the principles of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's programme, and the idea behind such an intervention is to help as much as possible, especially in the private sector to survive, so that the current decline in business activities that they have, which are expected, does not lead in time to permanent and overtime, huge damage to citizens, businesses, and ultimately to public finances themselves. Whether this strong state intervention will have success, first of all, depends on three factors: firstly, that all measures be economically rational, secondly, to ensure their funding and thirdly, that their implementation is effective and timely, or without delay. The essence of the budget rebalancing should be sought in the reasons, i.e. the causes that gave rise to the need for its adoption. If that is even a partial resolution of the economic consequences caused by the pandemic, again on the other hand, it creates conditions for real budget planning, and it is very soon awaiting us, handling the parameters that we had this year, then I don't think there's any reason to negatively observe and analyse this draft budget. Although growth in economic activity could be said to have been solid during the first quarter of this year, a strong decline in economic activity was recorded in the tourism, traffic and recreation sectors first in April, and that is logical, given that the measures taken by healthcare directly affected them and their business sphere. Also, major problems were faced by companies in those works that have a significant import component, with the sight of the disturbed supply chain, so over time the two-digit growth of exports that we had in January and February turned into a two-digit decline over the next three months. According to currently available data, GDP decline in 2020 is estimated to be around 3%. In fact, relatively high GDP growth in the first quarter was projected at that time in a malt with expected positive effects in service activities, but also in the areas of trade, traffic and tourism. At that time, however, the impact of the crisis on the economy could not yet be seen. This means that, in the rest of the year, we could realistically expect a lower, or greater drop in GDP. In the context of the above, I would also mention that this rebalancing provides direct support to the hotel sector, i.e. the rebalancing is additionally provided funds for the hotel industry in Serbia's cities, primarily through a one-time direct subsidy to each individual hotel of 350 euros per bed and an additional 150 per unit of accommodation. You will agree with me that this is the way to look at the way out of a crisis in which the tourism sector is located. In addition to the above, it should also be mentioned that despite all the difficulties and unknowns of the period ahead of us, the fiscal council of the Republic of Serbia has estimated that Serbia currently has quite enough capacity to withstand the ongoing crisis without some significant macroeconomic stability. Let me round up my exposure to the belief that the pandemic of the coronary virus has put ahead of our country's economic policy great challenges, above all in order to preserve economic activity, preserve jobs and standards of the population. And that is why it is very important in this way that carefully selected economic policy measures respond to each one in a timely manner. I think with this budget rebalance, it does. And that's why the SDPS will support this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u502	Thank you. Another presentation in this part of the session, MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u503	Thank you. I heard from my professors at the Faculty of Economics that Serbia has a problem with 500, 500 dinars, 500 marks, 500 euros. They say whenever Serbia in history gets to 500 things, there's a war, a crisis, an internal, an external one, and we come back as an unfortunate nation to about 200, 300 euros, and it always happens. At the same time, the economy is history, and we are called here in the Serbian Parliament to write, change and create Serbia's history, to make Serbia look a different country, not as we inherited it, and to have a new generation living in an economically developed country. Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, the budget is the most significant legal and economic act to be adopted in a fiscal year for a fiscal territory, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia is much more. It is the budget of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia's economic space, i.e. all Serbs living in this area. The budget was made by respecting dynamic and static principles. And there is no public debate, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia at the moment, and I know I'm talking about rebalancing, but the rebalance is the 2020 budget, it's about the strength of the Serbian economy. Serbia is the country with the largest economic potential in the Western Balkans and we should not be ashamed of it. Just because we haven't used that chance once, that's our problem. Work, discipline and accountability, as well as the 2020 budget, are evidence that we can be leaders in the Western Balkans and should not be ashamed of that. In 2014, when we entered fiscal consolidation, many talked about fiscal consolidation. I've been saying with few people that we're actually changing the economic order of Serbia, that a unhappy economic nation, which has huge potential, is going back to where it is. We had a vision, we made decisions, we did deeds, and we made Serbia look different today. There was the Prime Minister, there were ministers, there were MPs from the assembly and they all contributed, but without Alexander Vukic, Serbia today would not look what it looks like. In 2015, 2016, 2017, we laid the foundation for this budget rebalance for 2020 and the 2020 budget. Weak Serbia, as it was economically, could never take the weight of responsibility of five billion and 800, how much we took this year to save Serbia's social opportunities. All measures are aimed at social policy, whether directly or indirectly, through economy, population, but essentially as a state of strength, we take on the burden of social responsibility in difficult economic times. A strong economic state managed to save macroeconomic parameters in 2020. A strong and successful state should do so both in 2021 and 2022, and that is less – more than enough. Kenyan theory, principles and rules, that's what Serbia today, the Serbian government is doing in economic policy. We apply the 1934 rules without any criticism of monetaryists about the origin of money. I know that we differ by the role of multipliers, but that's what makes us different, with a clear vision that we share the same goal. The crisis is economic, it's big, and we're just at the beginning. I don't think the crisis was caused by the coronary virus. The crisis has been embedded in the functioning of the global economy since 2016. Since 2006, according to the IMF, the European Union has been at the peak of productivity, all other economies are somewhere around here. When you have less investment, when you have less labour, then you find yourself in the economic crisis of 2008. The 2008 economic crisis solves it with primary emissions and deficits. It's not a sustainable theory. If you have a three thousand-billion-dollar deficit, if you have thousands of billions of printed money, you're essentially saying that the first law in economic theory is not in force. The quantum theory of money doesn't exist if it's accepted. In fact, there is no classical economic theory, a neoclassical economic theory, in fact there is no economic freedom, and economic freedom is embodies with freedom. It's directly related to human nature. The economic crisis, unfortunately, also affects Serbia. We cannot fence ourselves against the consequences of the economic crisis, but for the first time in history, we have not made Serbia a country that we have caused an economic crisis. The economic crisis is inherited, it's due to the fact that global things happen the way they do. In 2018 and 2019, we drew on the effects of fiscal consolidation because we had economic growth that was fantastic. We hope that in 2021 and 2022, we will survive and make Serbia continue to retain that trend. Of course we have a budget deficit. Of course, the deficit is a perfectly normal consequence of the economic crisis and of course I, as in March, say that it doesn't matter that we stick to Mastricht and that our public debt is at 60%. We cannot limit our right to grow economy and economy by sticking to the 60% Mastricht, because no one in Europe does it anymore. All economies are much more in charge. All countries have much greater deficits. There is no reason for Serbia not to go over 60% of its debt, and we are aware that we must do so responsibly and realize that we sometimes have to repay this debt, but we do not need to create a 60 per cent public debt barrier ourselves. Today you have MPLs that grow in all EU countries, you have one huge uncertainty and Serbia shows by example, the responsible policy that you, finance ministers, and the president of the state of Aleksandar Vucic that Serbia is creating a new model, like when we were 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 we listened to in the IMF that we have written history and, I am going back to the economy, history, how fiscal consolidation can be unique in the world. I wasn't talking about economic classifications today, I wasn't talking about economic positions, because I talked about it too long. It's a great pleasure, Mr. Minister, when I look at the lawyers, the doctors, when they talk about the economy. It's one thing we've done with fiscal change, we've been interested in people talking about economics, and somehow we've denied our satisfaction that we have an exclusive theory of economics, and we've essentially made us happy to achieve one of our own goals, which is that we're interested in all that the economy is the essence of functioning. I can't, Mr. Minister, without reminding you of my own revenues from the University of Belgrade and other universities. We talked about it a year ago, and I said that for every budget rebalance and every budget story, I would go back to a respected, honorable Belgrade University rector who never told us today where 130 million of my own revenues are and how they are spent at the university. Let me remind you, 95% of these revenues are the incomes of school students, and 48 to 82% end up in incomes that we don't know what they are and whether they're transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, this budget should not create a false picture that in the economy of Serbia and the world it will be economically easy and that we will not be harmed by economic events, we will be, but this budget, as fiscal measures and monetary policy that we did in 2020, says that from the economic crisis, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will come out with very little damaged economic parameters. That's why we have nothing left to do but vote for the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u504	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic, as always, for an effective presentation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a 60-minute break and we're going to continue at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the mandate of MPs to complete the seats of MPs in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27, paragraph 5. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Olivera Ognjanovic, elected from the electoral list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children" and MPs Nina Pavicevic and Vojislava Vujic, elected from the list Ivica Dačić – "Socialist Party of Serbia, Unique Serbia" - Dragan Markovic Palma. On the basis of the decision of the RIK, the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MPs Olivera Ognjanovic, Nina Pavicevic and Vojislav Vujic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask that they prepare to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath, and allow me to congratulate, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on the election and wish for successful joint work in the current term of office. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Maria Jevdzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u506	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I have listened carefully to your presentation today, Mr Minister, which is why it is important that today, in the voting day, we adopt the proposed budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia and from this explanation, but also from today's discussion of my colleagues, it is seen that the government wants to shift money to the best possible mitigation resulting from Kovid-19, but also to preserve the economic stability of our country. Unique Serbia supports the government's and JS MPs' efforts in the voting day will support the proposed budget rebalance. The adoption of a new rebalancing is not unusual, especially given a fairly uncertain assessment of economic developments under the influence of the health situation, and given that the end of the year, it is possible to see clearly what the first impact of the crisis on the economy as well as on the whole of society is. When we discussed and adopted the 2020 budget in the Assembly in December last year, none of us could even assume what challenges we would face during 2020, and the budget was then planned as a developmental, balanced, and focused on further raising of living standards and investment. Unfortunately, the pandemic that has hit the whole world and our country has affected that in April we have the first budget rebalancing, which included economic measures that would preserve macroeconomic stability on the one hand, and on the other hand, it has helped those most affected by the pandemic. The state has shown with responsible policy in difficult times that it is a priority to preserve the health and life of people and to reduce the negative economic consequences of the pandemic by economy and citizenship. Speaking of the previous budget rebalancing, I must mention as an MP coming from the Raška region, or from the King, that this budget rebalance has set aside 3.3 billion dinars to continue the construction of the Moravia Corridor. I have repeatedly mentioned in this high house how important it is to build this corridor, not only for the Royal and the Raski district, but also for Zlatiborski, Rasinski, Moravski County. It is a long-term investment that will allow this part of Serbia to develop rapidly and ensure that citizens gravitating in this area ensure survival in their cities, thus slowly decentralised Serbia and moving the development centre from Belgrade and thus motivate not only citizens, but also local self-government to work to improve their districts. I would like to set an example of Jagodina, who has self-organised her own city and become such an attractive place to invest, and they themselves have initiated new investments, and the following example of many local self-governments can be seen and believe that they have and what to offer and attract not only foreign investors, but also encourage local entrepreneurs to develop and expand their business. Of course, this is all about increasing local budgets, and I've come up with an interesting piece of information. I followed a survey that showed that as many as 84% of Serbian citizens know nothing about the local budget or are not directed enough. Here's an idea, Mr. Minister, that people at the place are animated and informed about the way in which the budget is created and what the priorities and needs of the locals are, and I think that in that way and understand the creation and needs of the republican budget, so maybe any unfounded criticism, if there are, could be constructive proposals. To go back to today's topic and what brings us the proposed rebalancing. It is noted that the government wants to respond to the needs of citizens to the best possible extent and that through additional means it mitigates the consequences of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. The funds have been allocated to build Kovid hospitals in Belgrade and Kruševec and we have seen in the previous months and months that come to us that it is important to have a developed health system, above all I think of hospitals in all parts of Serbia, but that more should be invested in human resources in the health system. We know that both doctors and medical staff have increased salaries, but all elements that make up the country's strong health system need to be continuously invested. Payments have been increased to the Republic Health Insurance Fund in order to obtain the necessary equipment and medicines, and to prevent the spread of disease and security as high as possible for all citizens. I think Serbia is one of the few countries that can boast of free primary health care. The budget rebalance also defines funds for capital projects, state roads maintenance, construction of traffic infrastructure. It is encouraging that the investment project "Serbia 2020-2025", which plans 14 billion euros to invest in infrastructure projects, with the aim of raising the standard of living for our citizens and that young people remain in Serbia, is uninterrupted to develop. In order to continue to develop our country further, we must be persistent and continue with capital investments, but continue to invest in infrastructure, especially in traffic and invest more in health care, both in the health structure and in the most important part of health care, and these are people who work in the health system. Thanks to them, the health system today works in these difficult times. I can freely say that one of the few countries that in this difficult time, which has hit both Serbia and the whole world, we have responded with a high rating, I can say freely – ten, as far as the health system is concerned. And all of it, but I especially put an accent on the health system, because I had the opportunity to talk, not only in my city, but also in other cities with health workers who were literally hired 24 hours in the previous months, in order to respond better to all the challenges that have met our country, all in order to preserve human lives, because it is a priority for both governments and ourselves as MPs. In the end, I did not deal with statistics, but with real life and the direct impact of measures on all segments of life, and as I said at the beginning of the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u507	Thank you. According to the report, the word is Mr. Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u508	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during today's debate, you could hear the views of SVM MPs in the draft law on the agenda. Let me talk about agriculture in the context of the 2020 rebalancing process in the remaining time of our parliamentary group. The proposal clearly shows that much more funding for agriculture has been planned. The Agrarian Payments Administration will receive more than five billion dinars, which will allow the remaining debt of the Ministry of Subsidies to be paid by the end of the year, which is extremely important for our farmers, and new measures will be introduced, primarily for our young agricultural producers. Almost no days without any of the agricultural producers talking to me and not asking when the payment of subsidies will continue and what about the results of the competition for young farmers. According to the budget proposal, agricultural subsidies are 46.8 billion dinars, audited at 5.6 billion, almost 14%. Of these rural development subsidies are the largest, nearly three billion dinars, and funds are increasing for both the Veterinary Authority and credit support. As a result of the outbreaks of the coronary virus, our farmers have faced various difficulties. In our assessment, regardless of the new challenges, they respected the measures and the agricultural year was successfully realised. I remember very well how many messages we received in the first half of the year from our farmers, how many questions there were, most of all at the time of the ban on movement, which shows that our farmers are disciplined, valuable and their work always comes first. A few days ago, we could hear from Minister Nedimovic that there were much more requests for subsidies than before in this cycle. And that shows that the system worked well during the emergency. The number of requests for subsidies in the area of dairy beef and genetics has increased. We also heard the announcement of grants in a new package of measures for young farmers up to a million and 500 thousand dinars, which the SVM parliamentary group absolutely supports. Through this programme, he particularly insists on livestock, vegetables and fruit growing. Agriculture is one of the things that relates to almost every household. We have to invest that branch of industry, too, because that's what all countries do. This difficult situation shows how important food production is. It's extremely important that we didn't have a problem with food shortages. Minister Nedimovic spoke a few days ago about the pension of agricultural producers, i.e. their pension and disability insurance. This is one complex subject that hasn't been touched since 1986. Of course, this topic is also about the budget, since we are leading farmers' debts as our country's revenues. We, MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, have been following the situation for years with pension-involved insurance of agricultural producers. On many occasions we talked about this problem. We had good co-operation on this matter with the past government and Mr. Minister, but the final solution has not yet come up. We are present in the field and believe me, there is no tribune, or meeting with farmers, where this topic is not present. Everyone's asking, every farmer wants to know when they're going to solve this whole problem? Last year I asked the Prime Minister about this problem. She said talks are being held with the World Bank and will also be discussed with the IMF, as well as that these problems will be resolved by the end of 2020. Of course, at that moment, no one knew what was waiting for us in 2020 and that we would have a problem with the pandemic of the coronary virus and, of course, because of the situation, everything is getting old. We know that this is an interresor question, that we must include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture in the resolution. We, SVM MPs, have for years been dealing with this problem of all farmers in Serbia who have managed smaller areas and who have nothing to pay for pension-inhabited insurance. These farmers have very modest incomes and have nothing to pay PIO or health insurance on an annual basis of around 100,000 dinars. Of course, if we look at the amount of contributions, it can be said that this is very small, at least in Serbia, but we must be aware that a farmer who processes, for example, two hectares, simply has nothing to pay these amounts. I must point out that over the past few years, a lot has been done on this matter. The number of members of the land that are obliged to pay these contributions has been reduced, and a working group has been formed within the Ministry of Agriculture, we also had a reprogramme in 2014 and 2016, which is extremely significant. However, there remains another problem related to the amount of the pension and disability insurance contribution itself, as well as debts, which are a major problem for all producers and, of course, are seen in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The solution to this problem is also in the coalition agreement between SNS and SVM and we hope that this issue will finally be resolved in 2021. It is clear to everyone that farmers should contribute in proportion to the incomes they make and the size of the land they process, not that they all pay the same amount, and those who land on three hectares and those who land at 300 hectares. It just doesn't make sense. It is extremely important to enable a reprogramme in 2021. It would be important for this programme to last for months and even a year. What's also important is that through this reprogramme we allow all farmers who want to pay the principal to pay right away, if they're able to do so, and then after that, they're cut off from interest. Of course, this is how the Republic of Serbia's budget would be charged. At present, it is a huge problem that the tax administration has mortgaged all the producers with debts on agricultural land and, of course, this agricultural land cannot be sold, nor can it be copied. We need to take care of the smallest agricultural producers. We have to make different categories according to our proposal, as planned. Those who land on a smaller surface do not have enough income and therefore we have to do this categorization. We believe that the solution to this issue will be good for the state, because the current budget is not being filled, no one is paying these amounts, or very few farmers are paying these amounts or very hard to pay farmers. If we solve this problem, then the state can only get much more than you would lose. Of course, Mr. Minister, you know it well, the previous Serbian government has been working on this issue for some time. I'm sure you've been involved with both the World Bank and the IMF and, of course, the Ministry of Finance plays a key role in solving this problem. So the government has a model so we can do it by what dynamics. In parallel, we should also work on resolving debts and creating a new system depending on the incomes generated by agricultural holdings. Unfortunately, the moment is about two billion euros in debt, which is very large and these are significant funds. It's important that we make order in this system as soon as possible. As things stand now, we hope that in 2021 we will finally resolve this situation. In the end, I want to conclude that the SVM parliamentary group will support the rebalancing. We also expect a draft budget law for 2021, through which we hope to address some part of the farmer's problem with paying contributions to PIO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u509	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u510	Thank you very much. I just want to thank you for the exposure. So I am fully aware of the problems that farmers face when it comes to pensions. I've already had a few conversations with Mr. Nedimovic, so I'm sure we'll definitely have a solution next year. It won't be a simple solution, but my point is that we have to end this story once and for all, because this is not how it ends. So, I know what the problem is, I've already received a proposal from Mr. Nedimovic on his part, we're analyzed by the Ministry of Finance, we'll see each other very soon, and eventually we'll get through it together. I'm sure there is a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u511	Thank you. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u512	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, have heard several times, we are discussing budget rebalancing, one of the most important topics in the Serbian Parliament, since only the budget is more important than the rebalancing. Dear Ministers, you and I were sitting in this room and when we were bringing the 2020 budget, assuming that we would meet something called "Covid 19", or "Corona Virus", after which, it is clear, the world will never be the same again. As Serbia managed at the moment of the first pandemic strike, my colleagues spoke on several occasions. Indeed, we can only praise the role of government and state when it comes to the first wave that has found us, surprised or unexpected, or whatever, it was entirely Serbian that we do not believe that we can be exposed to such a deadly virus that has stopped maltenes all over the world. However, it did happen. It has caused major consequences since World War II in the global economy. Somehow, the first to hit were the sectors that we were planning on budgeting somewhere primarily and counting on, which is the tourism sector, catering, traffic, recreation, entertainment and, of course, business entities. In several waves, the government of the Republic of Serbia has helped endangered categories, and I am not going to deal with a set of measures behind us right now. That's what you were talking about in your opening statement, and my colleagues also said, even though it's always good to remind the public that we stayed rudely on our feet, despite the fact that the blow was not small at all. Given the fact that the crown of the virus has at some point completely stopped life, then only the wicked comments today could be that our deficit is who knows how terrible, who knows how tragic. It is, yes, larger than what we have projected, but as you yourself have said and shown the tables, it is far better than all countries in the environment and than the serious majority in Europe. What I'm trying to say is that I'm pleased first by the fact that through this rebalancing you have provided additional funds for the Ministry of Economy which, as far as I understand in the explanation, are going right now to the public sector, which has to be helped again. But there is another item that is absolutely commendable, which is support to tourist agencies, people who have indeed been exposed to a serious blow when it comes to the coronary virus. They are not the most vulnerable categories, but after me they will certainly say my colleagues, it would be crazy for me to explain how much culture has suffered if I have a Jelica Sretenovic in the parliamentary group or what problem our health system was if I have Doctor Vesna Ivkovic. Everyone will talk about how many crowns she's left behind, how much we've managed to fight and how much she's ahead of us. What I'm going to say anyway, Mr. Minister, is that we'll meet again soon when we get the 2021 budget. I really want all of us to have this 2021 year to solve a virus corona problem with a vaccine that will calm the pandemic and bring the world back to a little bit. But if that doesn't happen, it seems to me that our advantage in the fact that we will be able to plan the budget even more rationally for 2021. I agree, the accent must always be on the economy, above all, on those actions that Serbia maintains, and in that sense I support the discussion of my fellow agricultural producers and all the subsidies involved in agriculture. Serbia, however, is the country where agriculture should have the highest primacy, but I firmly believe that first you, and then all of your fellow ministers and the new council of the government, in future designing, or budgeting for 2021, will remember some of the categories that may or may not have been safe with this rebalancing, and perhaps even with the budget that we have brought in part have been damaged. We all need to recognize together the message that somehow left us the crown in 2020. What she taught us, or she gave us away from what we always had as a definition, first of all as a Serb people, that is, the Balkan peoples at all, which is gatherings, cordiality, taught us that there must be a distance, but it would be good if we didn't succumb to the end of that distance and forget that we still have to give each other a hand. Why am I saying all this? Because even with budget rebalancing, we have discussions that are subjective to extremes, not even subjective, again are attempts at abuse. There is no budget rebalancing that cannot be criticised, as there is no one who cannot be praised. There's just an angle of looking at it that's terribly important. But it is very important not to abuse such a situation in order to show one image that does not stand, which is a picture that any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is more damaged by this rebalancing than the other. I really don't see that the budget rebalancing has had, that is, anyone in the government had such an approach, so some discussions since this morning, which have tried to explain to us how the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are just another confirmation of what I am threatening and very afraid of, and that is that secessionist approach to everything, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now, we're going to try to pull something again, or we're going to show how we got less. So if, in the middle of the rebalancing crown, we need to talk about how we're going to measure it each from our own village or atara, then we're not serious. If we look at everything in front of us, I say again, I won't congratulate you, it's your job, so we chose you, but it seems you did the best you could. I firmly believe that even if there are shortcomings in this rebalancing, which I say again, is being adopted immediately before the adoption of the budget, and that is what the Corona has taught us, which is that it can happen and that we have a very quick review and budget rebalance for the current year and adoption for the next year, then I firmly believe that you will look at all possible shortcomings that exist here and that in the budget for 2021, you will make it a better predict, distribute and do everything for the benefit of Serbia's citizens. I'm going to end up in a way that I'm going to say that we're going to definitely support budget rebalance as a parliamentary group of SPS, but also with a note that I really want to believe first of all as a man that we're somewhere close to the solution of this cove of crisis, that as humanity we learned a lesson and we deserve to get some vaccine that will stop the pandemic savagery, because the figures are terrifying. It could be talked about rebalancing longer and wider and with data and figures, but also taking care that everything that depends on each and every one of us needs to be preserved first and done quickly, here I will finish my discussion. I thank you for your explanation, thank you for your patience to listen to all of us, because we all have our own point of view, but it is important that you know that Parliament is absolutely standing by his government to which he has given his trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u513	We thank you, too. Next up, she's a colleague of Jasmine Karanac's.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u514	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Mali, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is the second budget rebalance for this year, and we can freely say that we are bringing it in quite altered circumstances. That would be unusual if the health crisis hadn't hit the home economy much more than anyone could have guessed. Therefore, additional expenditure to mitigate the effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus are both logical and necessary, since no one in the world could even predict the situation of the pandemic and therefore plan the means to cover the costs of anti-crisis measures. The state of Serbia reacted quickly and effectively to the health crisis, and it cannot be challenged by even the greatest critics. Huge funds are aimed at combating the pandemic, firstly to obtain the necessary equipment and build and improve health infrastructure, and then to recover the economy and population. As many as two hundred million euros in emergency costs have been allocated for the purchase of drugs, appliances, construction and equipment of covid hospitals. Our health care system has proved to be excellent and efficient despite the enormous inflows of patients on three occasions, largely thanks to doctors and medical staff. That is why we must give them gratitude and recognition, but not only through salary increases, but primarily by insisting on respecting the measures and responsible behaviour of both states and citizens, by raising collective awareness in mutual solidarity, awareness of the difficult situation of healthcare professionals in these conditions, because only teamed together and together we can keep the epidemic under control. We need to be aware at any moment that there is a difficult period, first of all in health terms, to which the numbers of the infected and the sick show us daily, but also the great challenges for us to put all costs under control and put the public finances into order. What the Fiscal Council points out, and what no one can dispute is that in times of crisis, public investment in infrastructure is not reduced, as I have already said, hospitals, but also maintenance of state roads, construction of highways, railways. And this rebalancing of public investment has also increased significantly compared to the previous rebalancing we had in April and in relation to the budget for this year. What is important to point out, when the forecasts of the IMF, the World Bank and the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the Fiscal Council are compared, is that economic activity has been recovered faster than expected. In times of crisis, Serbia does not lag behind other European economies in recovery and recovery, we can say freely, a major blow to the budget, which no one could have predicted. I must also point out that Serbia's decline in GDP in 2020 is significantly lower than in most European countries. According to the latest projection made by the European Bank and the IMF, Serbia is the smallest drop in Europe and it is 1.5%, while the comparisons for some countries record an average decline of up to 10%, Croatia 9%, Montenegro 12%, Slovenia 7%. Serbia's minimum decline is the result of not only the structure of domestic economy, according to some economists, they say the largest decline is recorded by countries with the highest share of tourism in GDP and those countries most affected by the pandemic. I must point out that in Serbia, too, along with the health system that suffered the biggest blow, and tourism is one of the most affected branches. That is why 150 million dinars were singled out, how much rebalancing was granted for the subsidies of premiums insurance to tourist agencies made an important step to help the tourism sector, and especially smaller travel organisers, who were the most affected during the pandemic. And this is not the only measure. It also provides favourable liquidity loans, as well as funds from the special programme of the Development Fund, as well as significant subsidies to support the work of the hotel industry. This low GDP decline is based on our economies largely relying on food and food production. As a result, it is necessary to encourage and develop agriculture and, therefore, much more funding for agricultural subsidies is foreseen by this rebalancing. Minister Nedimovic promised that money would be paid within the next month on the basis of requests for subsidies, which arrived significantly more during the pandemic than before and we, of course, hold him by the word. All these measures resulting from a responsible policy so far led by the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no reason not to believe that the current government will continue the continuity of the IMF and the European Commission's forecasts for the next two years envision the recovery of the Serbian economy. However, we still need to be aware that this is not the end, that the crisis is not over, especially given that the epidemiological situation in the world is getting worse again, that every day the number of infected is growing, that the impact on both the health system and the economy is increasing. Here, today we have a new infamous record in Serbia – 2.823 infected and unfortunately 14 deceased. Therefore, in waiting for the vaccine, as straws of salvation, we must all be responsible and respect the epidemiological measures. We need to be solid, show that we care about each other and our healthcare workers. In order for the health system to endure and to be able to heal other diseases that are not coronarys, we wear masks, avoid gatherings, keep a distance. It's not hard, it means life. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group Rasim Ljajic, as socially responsible and solid, will also support these measures, which are primarily aimed at fighting the crown of the crisis, but also at any future proposals that will address the protection of the population and keeping the epidemic under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u515	Thank you. Next up is colleague Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u516	Thank you. In my presentation, I would refer to everything that's been happening to us for the past few months, which is, of course, a pandemic of the coronary virus, because the pandemic of the coronary virus affects all segments of our lives, and we are somehow forced to adapt to these new conditions. The whole world is actually facing a situation that is completely unknown and is struggling with this severe disease. We all find new ways of working, so our economies suffer as little as possible, and try to preserve every job. However, I will take this opportunity to appeal to all our citizens, starting with the youngest to the oldest, to respect all the prescribed measures because it is not a disease that is harmless, the disease is deadly, and we need to be responsible, first of all, for our family, for our friends. It's the only way to prevent the spread of this virus right now. It is logical that in these circumstances we put the health of our citizens first. We've shown this by rebalance of this budget, but of course by the investments we've had in the healthcare system over the years. This rebalancing envisions investments in two cohesive hospitals in Krusevec and Belgrade of nine billion euros, as well as additional funds -- 2.8 billion dinars covering the purchase of the necessary medicines and equipment for the treatment of this disease. Of course, we have provided citizens with better quality health care, availability, of course, and we have strengthened our health system. However, if we hadn't invested in the health system and before the crown of the virus appeared, we would be in a much more difficult situation right now. As a result, we have managed to maintain our health system, under the circumstances in which systems have been shot in countries far more developed than Serbia and in which it invests heavily in health care. The last few decades of healthcare have been completely devastated in Serbia. I must commend this occasion and the work of Minister Loncar, his entire team, not only in these circumstances of the coronary pandemic, but throughout the period of performance of the Minister of Health, because there are no parts of Serbia in which no serious investment in health is launched. I'm sure it will continue, and we've shown that with this rebalancing, the previous one that was this year too, and we're also going to do it with the budget for next year. And health and education are, in fact, the two most important segments of our society's development, closely linked, because in all these institutions that I'm talking about, institutions that, for example, are now meant to be a source of hospitals, they will later be some medical centres for the treatment of other diseases, they need, of course, doctors and educated medical staff. I am convinced that we will continue to strengthen the position of health workers by increasing the wages announced, a one-time aid also from 10,000 dinars that the minister mentioned today. Of course, in the end, we all owe special thanks to the citizens of Serbia to healthcare professionals, we owe it to doctors, nurses, who all the time endured the greatest burden in these really new and difficult circumstances. I believe that in the future and with this current wave of coronary viruses, we will deal successfully as we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u517	Thank you. Next up is colleague Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u518	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have witnessed the time when all mankind is seen because of the global pandemic Kovida-19 on a milestone that changes the direction of the future, changes the economic, social and health image of humanity. If we want this future to be certain, and not uncertain, we must fight for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, both in the front lines of health institutions and in the entire health system, and in the adoption of good legal solutions in this higher house that allow for a first-time and adequate response to all the challenges this dangerous virus is facing. For these reasons, the new rebalancing of this year's budget provides for additional means of preventing and easing the consequences caused by the coronal virus, and the coronal did not leave the consequences for health alone but also for the economy of all countries in the world. The most important factors that have led to changes in the level and structure of budget revenues in Serbia, and what is seen from the rebalancing are, among other things, the shorter and lighter effects of the functioning of the most severe epidemiological measures, i.e. the ban on the movement and implementation of certain activities and the faster establishment of internal and international economic flows, a slight decline in economic activity compared to the expected changes in the structure of GDP, although it is far better in countries in the region and in other European countries, the lack of transit traffic, a drastic decline in the number of foreign tourists and others. As far as the epidemiological measures are concerned, I'll stop here with a few comments. First of all, I have to admit that the boredom in this pandemic fight has been going very well, at least in the first and second waves, even much better countries in the environment in Europe, I will remind you of the hodogram of the events. The first case of Kovida-19 was registered in Serbia on 6 March 2020. By introducing a curfew, which proved justified at the very beginning, we have preserved not only our older population and chronic patients, but also received time to equip hospitals, both accommodation facilities and appliances, testing tapes and protective means. I listed all of this to remind you of the justification for the introduction of these epidemiological measures that we avoided some bad scenarios like those in Italy. The first budget rebalance for 2020 was adopted in April. The programme of economic measures has enabled uninterrupted financing of the fight to preserve human health and life and reduce the negative economic consequences of the pandemic by economy and citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia reacted in time to measures worth around 5.8 billion euros to prevent the negative economic consequences of the coronal virus, which is 12.5% of our GDP. According to the latest news, Serbia is the best in Europe as regards GDP decline, which has been officially shown by the IMF and the European Commission's latest forecasts. In fact, Serbia records a decline of only 1.5%. The second budget rebalance for 2020, which we are just discussing, envisions a total budget revenue of 46.5 billion dinars higher than the amounts foreseen by the April budget rebalance. So much for numbers, and I'm not going to deal with them anymore, but my colleagues have talked enough about numbers, but about the goals that need to meet the adoption of this rebalancing. The budget rebalance also covers planned assistance and support for the health sector. Transfers have been increased to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to obtain the necessary equipment and medicines to prevent the spread of the disease and to provide better quality health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let us not forget the increased consumption of disinfectants, personal protective equipment, the equipment of covid hospitals, the feeding of patients, the construction of hospitals in Kruševec and Belgrade, the means of reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, as well as the equipment and renovation of many health institutions. There is also an increase in salaries for healthcare professionals, as well as the planned payment of one-time financial assistance to healthcare professionals of 10,000.00 dinars. The employment relationship of some 3,300 health workers, due to the increased volume of work in the health sector, requires and increases the amount of funds for their salaries, as well as transport to a job that was not planned for the 2020 budget. I must stress that I am particularly pleased, as a health worker, that the prime minister in her exposé has cited as the most important of the six priorities of the new government to strengthen the health system of the Republic of Serbia, which is to say that we understand the importance of a strong health system for the health of the nation. The correctness of investment in health and health infrastructure has proved more justified than ever during this pandemic that Serbia is fighting more successfully than many richer and more developed countries. The health system of the Republic of Serbia has shown readiness, professionalism, expertise that we all need to be proud of. Our healthcare professionals throughout the country fight day and night without ancestors for every life professionally and consecrated and sacrificed. So I'm taking the opportunity to thank all my colleagues, medical technicians, auxiliary staff and other medical workers who are heroes not this year but this century. I am pleased to note that one of the government's absolute priorities in addition to increasing salaries to healthcare professionals will also be to invest significant funds for education, medical equipment and improving the conditions in which healthcare professionals work. It will continue to be invested in a health infrastructure in which significant investments have been made over the past few years. Homes of health, general hospitals and health centres are being built and renovated throughout Serbia, which will increase our health capacities. Reminders for World Bank data show us that the level of spending on health in the Republic of Serbia is much higher than countries in the region, even above the levels of developed European countries. It is concluded that we cannot say that our health care is not being invested enough. That it can do better, of course, because the functional health system for which enough money is allocated will certainly face all health challenges with much less problems when there is enough resources for smooth functioning. I hope that after the crown, the value of our health care system and that we will learn to change our priorities and our life habits. And this will pass, but to pass, it is necessary that all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia respect the measures and preserve our health both physically and mentally, thus safeguarding ourselves and the health system that should take care not only of the sick but also of other species' health services if the need is indicated. In the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u519	The word is Adriana Pupovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u520	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, primarily respected citizens, I come from a city where one of the largest copper mines in Europe is located, coming from Bor. I am a debut in the Serbian Parliament but not in the local parliament. In 2004, I was the youngest councilman in the Borska Assembly, 2008 one of the founders of the SNS in Bor, then the director, assistant president of the municipality, but my most important role in life and with which I am proud is the role of mother. That's why it is my special honor and pleasure to represent together with these wonderful people a parliamentary group that is apostrophe of exactly what is most sacred to me, and that is the future of our children. Serbia owns huge reserves of copper ore, lead, zinc, extremely much coal. I must also point out that nowhere in the world in the country is funding the opening of a mine, so neither can the Republic of Serbia. This also leads to the fact that the strategic partner is inevitable. Foreign investment is important for Serbia only in 2016, thanks to Alexander Vukic, they crossed the 2008 pre-crisis GDP level. Memories for the sake of this, I must mention that in 2009, the Serbian Bank was on its knees. Foreign debt grew rapidly, there was an explosion of public debt, increased unemployment, increased inflation, imports slowed down, but today, i.e. At the end of 2019, the public debt of the general state was 52.9% of GDP, which means that, thanks to our president, the prime minister, but also Minister Sinishi Malom, we have an extremely balanced, i.e. a balanced budget or a developmental one, thanks to which during the pandemic period the funds were directed rationally and efficiently, and not selectively, respecting the principle of fairness and constant interactions, i.e. the interaction between people in the economy. I also note that even 60% of the public debt of GDP is considered sustainable, according to master rules that prescribe the limit that 60% of GDP's debt, which shows that our country is the best not only in the region, but also wider. As friendship and alliance is restored between the two countries, our President Aleksandar Vukic has just shown by the arrival of the Chinese company Serbia Zijdin Koper d.o.o., it is normal that the strategic partner who invests his capital has a majority stake, but I must also mention that the state has managed to retain a 37% control package. Since the arrival of the company's strategic partner Zijdin, it has been commendable that when it passes through the former RTB's drives, there is nowhere to be built. A new fleet is being built in Bor and Majdanpek, new electrolysis is being built, the melting room is expanding, surface spears are being expanded, green oasis is being created, the Bor-Selje road is being paved, and what is most important for our Borski Okrug is that the realisation of the capital project will connect the eastern and central Serbia with Vožd Karadjordrje. For this reason, I would also like to thank the person who proposed me to be a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, who runs an exceptional woman and politician Katarina Rakic. As the Chinese company arrives, it enters and deeper into the pit, increasing production both copper and gold. Well, it's a deal and it's coming true. The next year's production will be doubled. It is important to stress that for the past year and a half in the former RTB Bor, now "Zidjin", about 500 new people have been employed, mostly young people from Bor and the environment. I have to repeat, 500 new employees, that's one factory. It is important to say that net incomes are employees, i.e. Their salary is an average of 85,000 dinars, which is above the national average. This large income is not only the result of hard work, because they say that mining bread, nine-core bread, is the result of responsible management of the company, the government of Serbia and the recognition of the effort made by our President Aleksandar Vukic, a friend of the state of China and above all a man who cares about miners, metallurists and other difficult interests. This can be supported by the fact that these jobs are not difficult since yesterday or from the day that Aleksandar Vukic took over as Prime Minister and Prime Minister of the State, they had the same weight before, and at a time when DS was in power, but then the average incomes were only 28,000 dinars, which means three times smaller. I can't help but say, I can stop behind this, because that's what those miners who have these receipts tell me, I have to admit it, because I was young, they claim the salaries were received from the sale of the company. The Bohr mining and artillery base then had 22 companies and 22,000 workers in its composition. Eighteen were sold, 16 eventually destroyed, and the money was paid for. Today there are only three companies, i.e. Three mines but workers earn their own income and I repeat, at an enviable level, 85,000 dinars on average. Is it necessary to state the facts, but I don't think it should, that President Aleksandar Vukic, by making extrahuman efforts, has achieved and achieves extra-average results? Maybe I shouldn't have talked this much, but aside from the finance minister, I believe you haven't all been to Bor. As the democratic government led the state, our leading company and our city witnessed the inscriptions on the exit boards in Bor and Majdanpek, on which it said, "The last one to go out let the light go out." Today, thanks to the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, Bor is a city with 48 thousand inhabitants, a multicultural city with 27 national minorities living in and, believe it or not, 25,000 registered cars. And I can say this. After the first assembly and staying in Belgrade, returning to Bor, one moment I wondered if I was in Bor or Belgrade. In the end, on behalf of the residents of the district and on my personal behalf, the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners I would like a lot of success in further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u521	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u522	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the topic which marked the year 2020 in the whole world and which changed all segments of society definitely is and without a doubt pandemic Kovida – 19. The impact of the virus didn't bypass our state register either. For the second time this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia had to change the budget, and the proposal for the latest amendments and additions to the 2020 Budget Law is today ahead of us. Since I come from western Serbia, an area that is highly hill-mounted, but which is also a agricultural area, I would refer to the agriculture sector, divided by 24, for which the budget rebalance has been allocated an additional four billion dinars. The importance of the village is too high to speak from a historical perspective in this situation when every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has personally felt in his case that without a village there is no survival. Let's start from being one of the few countries that, even during the biggest crisis, we've been supplying enough basic life intentions. We didn't miss food for a moment. Not only were there enough intentions for Serbian citizens, but we had enough to export to countries in the environment and thus help them. A large part thanks to the Serbian peasant, a Serbian farmer who, during the state of emergency, did not stop working, did not stop producing, even though the circumstances were extraordinary and how they affected the very placement of goods. Let us not forget that after the closure of the markets, many families who were engaged exclusively in agriculture lost their temporary income, but our agricultural producer, even during the challenge that hit us, successfully managed to move some of his sales to the Internet, and without the internet, it would not be possible to work from home, which for most employers was the only solution during the health crisis. However, the house many of them are staying in during the year replaced this time with forgotten properties across Serbia's villages. Who knows which way the village reminded us how important it is to us, but it also warned that we had to keep it safe. Although the data is not encouraging, every fourth village in Serbia is in the disappearance phase. There are thousands of empty houses in our villages, and unfortunately our youngsters are waiting for an opportunity to leave the village. What's our job is to motivate them and give them the opportunity to stay in the village. What is it that will keep them in the country? It's an opportunity to live off their work. The government also recognised this by rebalancing the amounts for subsidies to agricultural producers, through the Agrarian Payments Administration for fostering agriculture and rural development, a rebalancing of more than 41 billion dinars, which is about five billion more than this year's budget. Of these, more than 26 billion were brought in for direct incentives in agriculture involving livestock and plant, but also organic production. Over nine billion are directed towards rural development measures. Also, what has been allocated to this rebalancing is the billion-dollar and 450-million-dollar funds to support agricultural producers, which are designed to eliminate the consequences of Kovid 19 in this sector. That the state is taking care of agriculture and that it wants to increase its share of economic growth, the prime minister also told us during exposure in this same home. We need to continue our systemic and strategic investments in agriculture in order to modernise our agriculture and teach farmers to be businessmen. That is why we are tasked with adopting in the coming period those measures that will increase the value of our agricultural production. First of all, I think of exports that are extremely dominant, which refers to exports of finished products. It is time to focus on the export of higher-grade products, i.e. finished products, not raw materials. The simplest thing is why we would export raspberries or any other fruit in a frozen state when we could export jam, juice or other finished products. What is particularly important is that we must not forget that a farmer is not only a man who produces food, he is a man who must have a decent life and opportunity at least about those who have residents in cities. It is one of the main tasks of the new Ministry of Environmental Care, that those who decide to live in the village must have good roads, must have medical, sports and cultural facilities, shops and everything else. The main issue of youth in rural areas is the lack of telecommunications services. How do we talk about remote extensions, remote jobs or simply basic social needs, if there is no signal for mobile telephony or Internet signals in many villages? These are real problems that are plagued by the residents of our village and that we have to solve. Over the past eight years, Serbia's agricultural policy has shown that it is ready to move the wheel of rural development forward and that more funds, as you ministers said, are being allocated each year to the agricultural production subsidies budget. Such agrarian policy achieves that a small agricultural producer is equally assisted as a large producer. But in order for the results to be even better and for people living in the country to feel them on their skin, it is necessary, apart from the activities, to include and coordinate all other sectors. First of all, I think of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, through youth and sports, then local self-government, health care and education. It's the only way the village residents can feel quality life and it's the only way they won't want to leave town at all costs. The village has always guarded Serbia, and now it is time for Serbia to preserve the village, because without a healthy and developed village there is no prosperous Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u523	Thank you. Next is counterpart Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u524	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Mali, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at the previous session, we chose a new government and what is interesting is that it was not an intense public debate over the prime minister as last time. Those who bilely challenged her and mocked her this time shut up because Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and her team have tangible and undisputed results. Because of these results, she entered the premiere club with a double mandate. I am truly happy that Minister Mali is also Minister of Finance again because a man of knowledge and experience and has been proven to be in any function, the job is doing maximum success. It is proud to say to everyone that Serbia has made progress in all domains and in all areas of society, from the beginning it has reached regional leaders. With SNS coming to power, it progressed year after year, starting to speed up economic growth, then we introduced reforms to the state administration, then a lot of infrastructure projects were done, trust and respect for foreign investments were restored. But times are extremely difficult. In my life, hard times I remember when there was a bombing, and then we were afraid of the enemy from above. Now we don't know which side the enemy is lurking from. We got help from our friends in the world, but we helped those who had less than us. While health workers struggled, not asking whether a patient who had political belongings and whether he had social security or not, others during the time of the extremely difficult time had obstructed all the good for the world, obstructed all the positive and again wanting to get us back into the mud. When you think there is no further and everything is exhausted, you see that there are, so they even tried their own children, to serve them as political points. In Serbia, all children are equal and we will fight with all our strength to provide them with a better future, as we will fight with arguments against all those who lie and who want to bring us back a decade. It's not all politics, it's not all about ideology, but there's something about human decency and ethics. There was no shortage of food or medicine, as you all know, and the pandemic is still going on and no one knows how far. All of this is exhausting our country's economics as well. That very progress in these extraordinary circumstances is not what we planned, so this is the second rebalancing, the first one was in April of the month, at the right time when the epidemic started and we fulfilled all the promises we made to the citizens, both to individuals and to the economy. As for the situation in the region, we now have -1% of GDP, in Croatia -9%, in Bosnia and Herzegovina - 6.5%, in Montenegro - 12% of GDP. We see that in the region we have really been far better through the wise and smart policies of our government. Also estimated by the IMF, and as for the European Commission, the IMF, for example, predicts that next year's growth rate in 2021 will be 5%, while in 2022 it will be 6%. The European Commission is a little more modest, so it forecasts a growth of 4.8% in 2021 and a slightly smaller 3.8% in 2022. In the budget, as we heard at the beginning of the minister's presentation, 483 billion dinars of deficit were projected. It is larger, of course, than in 2012 and 2014, but only because of the pandemic, which is a danger to all mankind. Time is ahead of us where great challenges await us, but I think this government really is more than any previous one of those challenges. We have achieved all of this exclusively by the hard and valuable work of President Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the desire to come out of this great crisis as winners. This is our way of telling all citizens that in times as difficult and challenging as this, they will be able to count on the help of their country. Also, I would like to thank Minister Malo for all he has done for this country, which he has reacted in good time and prevented the collapse of finance, which is not the case in many countries. I trust you that everything you do in the future is best for Serbia at a given time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u525	Thank you. Next is counterpart Jelica Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u526	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, imagine a great sea and a rather unsustainable ship called culture on that sea. It sails our ship, it would say calmly, but monotonous. Suddenly, the sea came to pass, the sky was dark, the lightning came, the winds blew, and they began to cast our ship upon the cliffs and the reefs. The water has already reached the deck. What's the captain doing? He's sending an SOS call, an appeal to help a ship of cultures. Help comes the nearest ship, named ministry and starts saving passengers from the ship culture, the whole human treasure, and musicians and composers, conductors, opera singers, ballet players, actors and directors, writers and poets, painters, apprentices and more, and more. When they were safe, the boat bound the ministry ship culture, sailed into the Black Sea, then into the Danube and came to the country of Serbia, and on the coast there were people lit up, happy. A ship of culture has returned to Serbia, it needs to be fixed, but there it is. All of a sudden, the senselessness got the better of it. Well, I wish that were the case. But we can't even fix the ship, because the investment for culture has been reduced by nearly two billion dinars. I can't believe it wasn't possible to make some kind of balance and not endanger another one but an unsustainable ship. I understand we're in the crown and it's hard, but I'm asking you that for the next year, the amount will not be the same as in the rebalancing. Let's think about it, SOS for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u527	Thank you. Next is counterpart Marijana Krajnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u528	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, it is a great honor for me to have the opportunity for the first time to address you. I must, first of all, tell you that I am very happy with the growing participation of women in politics, and the fact that 40% of women are involved in the work of this Parliament, as well as that half of the Serbian government are women, which has placed our country among the first 10 countries in the world according to gender equality, when it comes to executive power. I sincerely hope that the future participation of women in Serbia's political life will be even greater. Speaking of the government, let's just remind ourselves that its priorities are further growth of the Serbian economy, the fight against the crown of the virus, that is, concern about the health of citizens, the preservation of interest in Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against the mafia and organised crime, the preservation of independence and independent decision-making of the Republic of Serbia, as well as accelerated reforms. All of this is actually a responsible continuation of SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policies, and the SNS takes care of every man and works to solve citizens' problems. One of the big problems our citizens have been facing in recent months is the pandemic of the coronary virus. This pandemic has changed the whole world, destroyed many economies. However, Serbia has proved to be a successful country. And as we talk about budget rebalancing, I have to remind that, at the right time, in April of this year, Serbia has adopted already one budget rebalancing, which has helped both the economy and the natural persons and thus avoided the terrible scenarios that could have been seen anywhere in the world, in much more developed countries, where many people have lost their jobs. This is what a stable and healthy economy has made possible for our citizens. In the first instance, three minimum earnings were paid to entrepreneurs and legal entities, while in the second package of measures two more were set aside at 60% of direct payments. In addition to these measures, we had one-time assistance to pensioners of 4,000 dinars, then, 100 euros in dinar equivalent to every adult citizen who applied for it. Then we had a delay in paying taxes and contributions to profits, a moratorium to repay loans and an increase in salaries to health workers of 10%. So at no time did we have a reduction in wages and pensions, on the contrary, wages and pensions are constantly growing. The average net salary now stands at over 500 euros, which is in favour of Serbia being a financially and economically stable country today. We acted the right way. We didn't have a factory closure in the state. We have the smallest drop in GDP in Europe, the lowest unemployment rate of 7.3%, and this has all been affected by the above-mentioned aid measures. This rebalancing is of paramount importance because it enables equipment and completion of Kovid hospitals in Batajnica and Kruševec. Big money's being invested in the health system. And what is commendable is the one-time aid to health care workers of 10,000 dinars, because health workers have suffered the greatest victims, along with their families and the least we can do for them and in some ways make it easier for them to act responsibly when it comes to an epidemic of the coronal virus, to respect epidemiological measures and thus help fight Kovid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u529	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u530	Thank you, Mr. Hardy. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has already been told a lot, and I will try not to repeat the things that have been said, simply, there is no need, and I want to be correct about colleagues who still want to speak, so I will mention only a few things. The first question regarding this rebalancing and which has surfaced in public is the question of deficits. The question arises – where does the deficit in the budget come from? So this deficit is not a product of ill-planning by the government, nor is this deficit due to excessive spending. This deficit is actually the result of the government of the Republic of Serbia struggling under the circumstances of the world pandemic for the preservation of life and preservation of the economy, therefore, to preserve lives and to keep people alive after the pandemic, to commit, to work, etc. And that's what it worked out for. There are two additional criticisms that are often mentioned and that I see the Fiscal Council as well. They say – money should not have been directed towards citizens, especially those 100 euros that went. But there is one key question – but why are we doing all this? Why did we have reforms? Why are we raising the economy? Why are we raising the economy? Well, I guess it's the citizens. I guess that's not what we do for statistics and numbers, so let's say, statistics say, but the point is that people feel that they live better, and in this case people feel that their country is standing by them when it's hard and they need help, that the state is there to help, both citizens and businesses. That's why it was a good move. That's why it's not for criticism, it's for commendation. The second question is, there's been a lot of investment in the health system, and my question is, why was it invested in the health system? On a daily basis, we listen to criticism and sermons from those who have had the opportunity to repair the health system from foundation to roof. Doesn't it make sense that they did something and left it behind while they're criticizing so much? Turns out they didn't do anything. You had a hospital in Pancheva, there's a colleague of Christmas, so let him correct me if I'm wrong, in which you didn't have windows, where the pigeons flew into the hospital. They left that behind. That's why it was invested in the health system, and it was a struggle for the lives of citizens. In the end, it is not necessary to pay much attention to the criticisms that concern the deficit itself as such, because we had a surplus for the past four years, so it was not good, it was critical, it was said – what is the surplus in the budget, so it should be spent, you can't behave like that, you have to give the momentum. Is that what happened? We were one year old, I think, which was without rebalancing, so they said, and that's not good. So the absolute balance of income and expenditure. That didn't work out either. So no matter what happens, it wouldn't work, they'd find a reason for criticism. The bottom line is the results. The result of the work of you, Mr. Mali, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, because I see it all as one team, and that also said by the Prime Minister, is that Serbia will have the slightest drop in GDP in Europe and that we will have growth in the next year. In fact, we're going back to what's a regular state. So, when it is a regular state in Serbia, Serbia has GDP growth. This shows that all the measures taken have been good, that they have produced results, that we have preserved the economy, that we have fought and saved lives and tried to save as many lives as possible, and that all these measures have been, I say, very well designed to benefit Serbian citizens. In the end, as an MP from kickinda, and since you were talking about the hospital in kickinda being renovated, which hasn't been seriously renovated since it was built, I also have as a member of the party who supports this government and as an MP who's coming from the city, who's going to get a practical new hospital, new appliances, a better health service, I'm going to absolutely support the rebalancing that you've proposed, because I trust you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u531	Thank you. The word is Mr Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when we look at this budget rebalancing focus, we have a total deficit of around 483 billion dinars or about a little over four billion euros. I would remind you to look at the original 2020 budget, which was planned for 20 billion dinars, and if we know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given 5.8 billion euros as measures to support economy and citizenship, then we can easily come to the conclusion that, in the end, there is no such pandemic, this 2020 budget may be in surplus, as well as the previous few budgets. This deficit is the government's response to this economic impact of the coronary virus pandemic, by way of extended implementation of the economic aid measure. We've heard these aids and measures, and I'd like to mention some of them where that money is. So, tax policy measures, which amount to around 110 billion dinars, direct support to entrepreneurs, these are three months of paying net minimum earnings and another two additional 60% of minimum earnings, which is about 130 billion dinars, direct support to the hotel industry, 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room and more than 300 000 tourist vouchers, not to forget, as well as other measures, that I do not now list all the measures. The total package of measures was about 491 billion dinars. If we add medical equipment and drugs to it, it's about 550 billion dinars. These measures, to remember, could not have been taken if there had not been macroeconomic and fiscal stability and budget surpluses in the past few years that defined it all. Did these measures deliver results? If we listen to what the IMF, the European Commission and the World Bank have said, it is very easy to conclude that they have produced results. Let's see what these reports say. So if we compare the first rebalancing of April 2020 and today, we see that there is a gradual recovery of economic activity. If we look at it, in April of the month we had a strong decline in economic activity of 13.4% due to the state of emergency from 15 March 2020, but by gradually unlocking the economic downturn of the economy in May has stopped, and in June the economy returned to the path of positive growth. In order not to make this an empty story, let's look again through the figures that say that on the revenue side, it says, the total budget revenue has increased by 46.5 billion dinars since the previous budget rebalance, tax revenues have increased by nearly 26 billion etc. So all these figures say that the economy has returned to the path of positive growth, which is very important. Also, I'm glad that public investment i.e. capital investment, which implies the country's economic development, from 85 billion dinars to 102 billion, means 27 billion. (President: Time.) One more sentence. I would mention this Ministry of Environment that continued to build the main collection of wastewater treatment in Leskovec, which started in 2008, and that is why I am glad that the government gave this money and that finally 2020, 2021, we end this. From what I've been told, the JS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u533	Thank you. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, your job as Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to make the Budget Law, i.e. the budget rebalancing that should correspond to the economic situation in the country, and now in emergency circumstances and health conditions. You need to make a budget law that will allow the health system of the Republic of Serbia to protect the lives and health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You need to make the Budget Law that needs to enable the economy and the real sector to function in these, not easy times. In addition to having to make such a budget, to propose to the National Assembly, and other than having to be convincing that it is really the best that the Republic of Serbia could offer to the MPs, the MPs when they make their decisions should also be handled by the opinion of a special advisory body to present to the MPs what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you as a minister are doing. That is why some Budgetary System Act found it to be the Fiscal Council. Serbia has been back since the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, launched reforms, it seems to me that the Fiscal Council has not been up to the task it had. It is time for us to perhaps ask a question in the National Assembly – what is our Fiscal Council doing? The projections we get, as MPs, and according to which we have to decide whether to vote for the Budgetary or Rebalance Act, however, the reports we receive from the Fiscal Council, all of them, but all of them, and all of them, were incorrect, and all of them, up to one time, had been denied. So I ask the question -- what does the President of the Fiscal Council do, what does one member do, because the other one resigns? We'll talk about that later. What kind of reports do we, as MPs, receive on the basis of which we decide whether to vote for your Budget Law or not? Here, whenever I take a report from the Fiscal Council, I ask a question - who wrote this? Has the report been written by the Fiscal Council, that is, its president, Pavle Petrovic, or has he written perhaps the owner of the Brkic tabloid, or NIN editor-in-chief Milan Culibrk? So believe me, when I read, I don't see any difference in what's written. One with a code, the other is a self-proclaimed economic expert, in my opinion a common ignorant, and the third reportedly is a professor of economics, who has failed to deal with politics, instead of dealing with what the National Assembly has appointed him to be president of the Fiscal Council. Let's look at what that report says, based on who we need to decide whether or not we're going to support your draft budget law. Among other things, it says you shouldn't invest in defense and police. Now I ask one question - and who works in that defense and the police? Are these some people who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Shouldn't they exist? Should we act on the principle of communes and lawlessness? Does he invest in those employees' profits? Are we going to go on a police patrol that's going to see, say, in a simple car crash, we're not going to talk about big tragedies, in the winter period, that they're going either on foot or in cars with summer tires or that they're out of gas? Does such a Serbia suggest a fiscal council? Let's say our representatives of the internal affairs organs are in torn uniforms? And so we found them in 2012, in uniforms aged over a decade and over. Does the fiscal council want us to go back in those days? They represent it as if it's some kind of cost that's completely unnecessary to the state, as if, say, the military and the police are just importing equipment and weapons, as if it's not one good part and our domestic economy, even most of it, mostly a major part, in which our employees work in their work process and in real economy. So, what, we're supposed to leave these people out of work too? Now the most rude thing I could read in this opinion of the Fiscal Council is that they warned us that instead of military and police, we should invest in the health system of the Republic of Serbia. That's not true. And it still says in this report that our maltene health system is at a level from the end of the 19th century. So I'd like to ask Mr. President -- is the Nis Clinical Center completed, the first clinical center that has been completed since Serbia existed, before the pandemic, before the crown? But that doesn't matter to the President of the Fiscal Council, because he's probably being informed from the tabloids or the NIN. I guess he reads that. That's the data he's taking. I saw it then in his scientific work, which he presented at a business forum on Kopalnik, called – The unemployment rate did not happen without the growth of the gross social product. Here, after four or five years, that same president of the Fiscal Alliance says -- well, yes, now the unemployment rate is record, at 7.3%. And then he invents reasons why, he can't affect us Members anymore, we learned about him, but to present to people who don't understand so much about public finances, why the draft budget bill isn't good. Well, among other things, it states that we spent funds on giving concessions to "Nikola Tesla". You reiterated to the Committee, and he was told at meetings when the budget was drawn up, that the funds had already been identified a year ago for the repayment of some loans and that only one small part had remained deposited in the accounts of the Republic of Serbia's vault. If he knew that, and he wrote this, I no longer trust him in his good intentions, because he consciously wanted to lead us all astray. Or that famous sentence, also written here -- why is "Er Serbia" given 35m euros in subsidies? On the side of many of the things you brought out, Mr. Minister, for which you were absolutely right, and that "Er Serbia" had brought in respirators and medical supplies and Skuffanders during the pandemic, and that we would have to kneel, bend, ask for someone else to bring it back to us, "Er Serbia" who brought our citizens back around the world, and the maltenes of any more airplane traffic were no longer needed, all of it returned by "Er Serbia" and only proved that we needed a national air carrier. But another question -- why doesn't the Fiscal Council finally say, let them do one analysis -- how much business does the "Er Serbia" in normal circumstances contribute to the GDP of the Republic of Serbia? Is that 35 million euros? I'm saying it's not. Some pessimists say it's 1%. Some who are optimistic say it's 3%. I don't know, I'm not getting into it. Maybe the truth is somewhere in the middle. But when you look at all the co-operatives who work in the Er Serbia system, that's a serious number of people who work, who earn their salary, who pay contributions, who fill our budget. Well, then it bothers some Paul to say -- we don't need that "Er Serbia". Secondly, it is constantly being transferred, and it takes years to reverse, that we have certain state-owned or inefficient public enterprises, that they have too many employees. They even ran some tests on it. That's why the Republic of Serbia had problems with any conclusion of the IMF contract, precisely because the Fiscal Council, working in favour of certain financial institutions, to translate – the banks, asked for reforms of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, and that reform meant selling Serbia's Elektroprivreda, nothing else. The question is now – how much do they really take care of the citizens of Serbia? Because our public enterprise, after everything that the citizens of Serbia have been through in times and wars and sanctions and one harmful government during DOS and all its mutations and clonings that have been worse in financial terms than wars, should charge these same citizens electricity as in EU countries where workers have the highest income. I guess that's what they're up to, and it would be irrevocable and it would lead to the privatisation that they'd do with the EPS. The most important thing for you, Mr. Minister, is the transfer of these famous 100 euros to every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know why he's inserting this report. It's already over. We voted that rebalancing. That money was given to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's very difficult to explain – hey, people, the state doesn't exist for itself, it doesn't exist for a tycoon, it's probably because of these citizens, I guess they should enjoy it, get something from that state and explain to them that it was a public need, not only on the economic side, but also on the psychological side, that it was an emergency, that it was a pandemic, etc. On the other hand, you and I knew at the time that the tourist trips outside Serbia would not be and that the money given to the citizens was used most to end up in domestic consumption a good part in that sector that was most affected during the emergency, which is hospitality and hoteling. So now, are we going to give the hotel owners and catering facilities money and that they are not doing anything, or are we going to give the citizens who are going to spend money, to do these, to earn salaries and, of course, all those who are in a series of providing such services to benefit themselves, but that is very difficult to explain to the President of the Fiscal Council, Paul. Why? Here, this Fiscal Council has existed since Dragan Gilas was in power, and now there are some 700m euros in controversy that were given to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Budget Rebalancing Act, which was given by the Serbian Parliament, which was the one that voted. I have not heard of a president of the Fiscal Council during the previous regime telling Gilas not to steal and steal 700m euros from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Look, he stole from every citizen 100 euros a year, but Paul was silent then. Now I don't know if he works for citizens or works for tycoons? Everything like this convinces me that it does not work in the interests of citizens or Serbia, but in the interest of the tycoon, because indeed while they were in power, the former regime, I did not hear any serious criticism of the Fiscal Council, not as they spent money, but as they stole state and national money. So, Mr. Minister, we will not define ourselves to vote, at least I, on the basis of a report by the Fiscal Council and their opinions, but on the basis of our experiences, what kind of laws in the budget are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they have continuity with those first budgets since 2014 and that they stick to the continuity set by then by the Prime Minister, and now the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u535	Thank you. Next is counterpart Nevena Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u536	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have reported today that I am discussing and supporting the agenda item concerning the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. At the very beginning, I would point out that budget rebalancing is something that is expected and necessary, given the pandemic of the Corona virus and given the fact that additional funds are defined without being planned by the previous budget of April this year. Additional funds have been allocated for newly employed persons in healthcare institutions, for single assistance to healthcare professionals, for all consumer materials used in the protection and combating of the Koron virus, and what I also consider to be significant are institutional investments in health institutions, and above all I think of two birds of the hospital, one of which is located in my hometown, in Kruševec, as well as reconstruction, reconstruction and construction of health homes and hospitals that had already been planned, which have not been abandoned and which currently represents an imperative. As someone who is business-oriented towards the economy, more specifically towards the business chamber of Serbia, the regional Chamber of Commerce of Kruševac and who is in constant communication with businessmen from the territory of Rasin County, and most intensely during the duration of the emergency, I know perfectly how much they meant to them all the measures they received from the state. Serbia has succeeded in providing fast, efficient and effective assistance in the unexpected attack of the coronary virus, because thanks to a serious and responsible policy, we have had a strong economy and we still have strong economies and stable finances. In fact, we had a good starting base to give a bold answer to a challenge called the Corona virus. We are one of the few countries in the world that has singled out more than 10% of its GDP to support the economy, and the total volume of economic aid and economic and the population is 12.5% of our GDP. With the first aid package of the economy, we have preserved the spine and the pillar of our economy, and all the other measures we have made sure that the next day when all this goes through, we catch one strong momentum of recovery. Thanks to the policy and difficult reforms initiated in 2014, by President Aleksandar Vukic, who were recognised and supported by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are today able to fight the Corona virus more successfully. These reforms have prepared us for this crisis, and I personally believe that happiness in this entire disaster has hit us that the pandemic occurred at the moment when the state has economic resources and when there is money in government accounts. Imagine what would have happened if the pandemic had occurred in 2009 or 2010 at the time of the previous government whose policy itself had far-reaching negative consequences. At the time of those who closed down our factories, which in Kruševec alone left tens of thousands of people out of work, who instead of investing in health institutions, invested in their private businesses, and instead of taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they cared only about themselves and their bank accounts. As a young person, I am particularly pleased that this rebalance provides for additional funding under the programme - "My first salary" for young people with no working experience up to 30 years of age. Because of everything I've said now, but also because of most of the colleagues who spoke before me, I will once again point out, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u537	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Andrian Avramov's.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u538	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, with a new rebalancing this year's budget, we have provided additional means to prevent and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic caused by the Corona virus. The pandemic of these proportions was not expected in the world, but I believe that we are successfully fighting the losses that the whole world has suffered, both in health and in economic terms. I feel free to say that I am proud that the defined funds have been allocated primarily for the additional equipment of covid hospitals, especially for the construction of new covid hospitals in Belgrade and in Kruševec whose value of construction is 9 billion dinars, with the aim of making it possible for every doctor and medical worker to have adequate working conditions and also for every citizen to receive adequate care as well as so far. In such difficult conditions, we have managed to provide one-time assistance to our medical workers of 10,000 dinars, with additional salary increases expected since January. It is important to say that we have also defined funds for capital projects that will continue to develop, because this also contributes to the creation of new jobs, and we are constantly struggling to have our young ones return and stay in Serbia, to preserve each existing job and to reach a 900-euro salary level as we have promised under the programme - "SRIBIA 2025". Tourism and hospitality are areas that have suffered the biggest losses. Hoteliers received 1.2 billion dinar subsidies from the state, which used a total of 314 hotel facilities, because if we hadn't done so, there would have been a loss of as many as ten thousand jobs. The rebalancing of that budget continues with similar support measures. As far as tourism is concerned, 150 million dinar assistance has been provided for support to tourist agencies because of the great difficulties they face and we plan to continue to fight to preserve the above-mentioned work and preserve jobs in the sector. With the budget rebalance we managed to increase the ministry's budget by 13 billion dinars, so that we could continue to subsidise state-owned enterprises and others both state-owned and private. It just says that we have implemented reforms in the right way, because we are now able to raise salaries to healthcare workers from January 1st of the following year, to enable our pensioners to raise pensions and to increase minimum earnings. I believe that today's budget rebalancing in front of MPs is aimed at strengthening the economy and GDP, as well as strengthening efforts to fight the crown of the virus. Finally, to leave time for other fellow MPs, it is enough to say that Serbia will be the best in Europe at the growth rate and based on relevant IMF projections. Serbia, despite all the difficulties caused by the pandemic, will have the largest cumulative growth in the next three years, which I think is absolutely for every praise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u539	Thank you. Before the next speaker, I would like to inform you, as we have announced today, that I have scheduled the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Thursday, at 1200 hours, with a agenda that has arrived following an emergency procedure from the government, a proposal for amendments and an addition of the Law on the Protection of Population against Contagious Diseases. Given how the service has reported to me that there is only one amendment to the Budget Rebalancing proposal, I expect we to complete the debate in particular in the morning, and even if we continue to have a business opportunity to postpone the time of the start of that session, all with the aim of completing the new law in principle Thursday and, if there is an amendment, to complete the debate in particular on Saturday and to announce the amendment and the amendment of the law. The next MP is Janko Langura.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u540	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to commend the Ministry of Finance and Minister, Mr Sinisha Maloko, for the extremely valuable and dedicated work in strengthening Serbia's economic system and on a package of measures to help the private sector and our citizens. What makes me particularly happy in this budget rebalancing is that the Republic of Serbia will continue to invest in health, infrastructure and agriculture. In addition to the number of hospitals we are building, both in Krusevec and in Belgrade, I must also point out that every healthcare worker, the Republic of Serbia will pay one-off aid of 10,000 dinars by the end of the year. We all have to agree and how we know that medical workers are the ones who form a pillar of defense against this monster that has affected the whole world, which is called Kovid-19. I thank them from this place most sincerely on behalf of all citizens. In addition to the difficult financial situation in which the whole world is located, as well as our country, the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac can boast of a very stable budget, it can boast of never greater and never better investments. In addition to the record number of paved roads, we have opened the airport in Prajani, we have built and opened the latest and most modern shopping centre that employs over 200 people, thus reducing the unemployed to a historical minimum, which is below 4%. A good economic policy that we have led, and with the huge assistance of President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we in Gornji Milanovac can continue to implement the 2025 plan, which we have promised to our citizens and which we are extremely proud of. I'd just like to point out another very small matter. The tycoon, Dragan Gilas, has daily criticised the economic measures brought and implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia through his media. It is that at the time of their boastful leadership of this country and their arrogant authorities they are used to having all the money that belonged to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia eventually ending in their pockets and in the pockets of their listeners. Even more ruthlessly, they daily present through these same media the most disgusting lies at the expense of President Alexander Vukic and his family. The only reason they see that Alexander Wolf is there. The only reason they see is because Aleksandar Vukic has been constantly increasing salaries and pensions, building new highways, reducing unemployment, opening new factories. Alexander Vukic is today a leader whom everyone is happy to invite to the guests, and he has acquired only his valuable, honest and hardworking work. Serbia has finally become a world-rated country. For this reason, Alexander Vukic today enjoys the trust of more than two million citizens, and that is what tycoon Dragan Gilas can only dream of. For this reason, I suppose and comes a call to the murder of President Aleksandar Vukic by Gilas's listener, Sergei Trifunovic, who at that time, we all know very well, was probably under the fact of some strong intoxicating drugs. I am glad that decent Serbia will never again allow itself to be found in the claws of tycoon Dragan Gilas, his listeners and his tycoon media. Because, you know, the only thing these people know is the politics of gaining personal wealth and their personal powers and trade in influence. Thank you very much. Long live Gornji Milanovac, lived Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u541	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u542	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, Ministers Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I consider to be the most important part of this budget rebalancing that we are talking about today is what will define the level of foreign direct investment in our country in 2021. Yesterday we discussed this on the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of public spending. What is the greatest result and what can be one big indicator of what will happen next year if we manage to cope with the pandemic, is that this level of foreign direct investment will rise drastically and this says a 14 billion-dollar figure that is intended just as one type of dinar, as Americans would say - incentivists, or help, encourage foreign direct investors to invest in our country, to employ people and, of course, to invest in new plants, new equipment and new technologies. That is what qualified Minister Sinisha Malloy as one of the best finance ministers in Europe. That's what the SNS defined as a condication son of a non of its policy, and that's the result, that's the light that we want at the end of every year to show to citizens and to say -- yes, this is done in Serbia, we've built so many miles of highways, we've opened up so many jobs, we've attracted so many foreign direct investments, so many foreign companies have opened factories and plants in our country, so many domestic companies have been built and formed in Serbia over one year. This is what is very important for the future, and that is that we have established one measuring character of government and government, which in any case shows that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia can, on the very basis of these clear results, assess that one government, how one government behaves and how much it cares about citizens. In these very challenging times, when some countries are much more modern, much more developed, much more economically powerful than us, have an unemployment rate of 20 per cent, when many countries resort to "lock-down" and re-communication, I will only mention Israel, the announcement that Austria too will close down and some many European countries, when we have global challenges in the area of combating global terrorism, so one major crisis that is not only economical but every other kind of crisis, we succeed as one small country to continue to invest, to continue and increase capital investment, to continue building and manage to have buildings in Belgrade where apartments and apartments are worth 9,000 euros per square, which are bought, of course, by foreigners who want to come to Serbia, who want to invest in our country, which want to protect here, which they invest new equipment, which they invest in new equipment that they bring in. So it's a whole new quality and modernization of our country. That is what will define us when we vote for this budget rebalance and when we determine how the state policy, or the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, will look in the coming years. That's the investment incentive policy, that policy that almost 30 years later led to us no longer having more of those companies that are shut down on an annual basis than those that are opening up. We, people, in the last few years, have since implemented economic reforms, since fiscal consolidation has been implemented, since President Vukic courageously entered the country's modernisation and definition project as a strong economy, as a kind of economic leader and economic hub in our region, in fact we have the opportunity to continue in 2021 with a 6% growth envisioned by the World Bank, which envisions many other international institutions. So these are institutions that have no reason to court political authorities in the Republic of Serbia, but have reason to work and respect Serbia as good partners and as a country to be recommended for new investments to all companies around the world. This shows this report by the agency and the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia and the RAS and the Ministry of Economy, that we have investments from different EU countries, the United States, the People's Republic of China, in one large percentage of the automotive industry, it is about construction industry, metallurgy, metal processing, mining and energy. So, one completely diversified aspect and the level of investment in our country and our economy that will ultimately help us hire as many young people from different fields, especially those who are studying and who will finish the most possible schools, universities and universities in the field of technical sciences, where we will be able to ensure that what we are is the vision of President Alexander Vukic to provide conditions for our young people, for our children here, that they can stay, that they can realise their own private initiatives here, their entrepreneurial initiatives. We are building an entrepreneurial society, but a society where it is possible to work in large, good and quality companies and show all of our knowledge, ability and skills that these young people have acquired through their education. So that's what we're going to do in the coming years. Of course, full support from Finance Minister Sinishi Malo for everything he's done when it comes to facing the challenges of this crisis, but first, thank him not only for his knowledge and for what he has applied when it comes to helping the economy, when it comes to maintaining economic activity in our country, and she, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this aid, these measures still take place, it has not ended. So a few days ago, aid to the tourism economy was paid. A few days ago, aid was paid, as said to tourist agencies, hotel industry, hotelers, therefore, a very important sector that is very important to our country. This shows that no matter how difficult they are, we take care of everyone. And to finish here, the 100-euro aid to every citizen, who was most questionable to the Fiscal Council, who instead of disturbing, who instead helped us create a good investment environment in this difficult situation, we create a good environment for the economy, this Fiscal Council, these people from their cabinets, and with all due respect for their knowledge, their education, they talk about how it is a completely unnecessary measure. You know, someone who has a salary, who works at the factory, who works eight hours a day, who gets paid finally now these 500 euros, 510 euros, to be more accurate, the average earnings that we've arrived at, with 300 and something that was only a few years ago, that 100 euros might have been life, maybe it was an opportunity to pay for their child's education, pay for some classes, pay for extra education, buy food, do something important for their families. There is no policy in the cabinet, and that is what separates us from all those who want to lead Serbia in this way. We've had enough and we've had enough, because in 12 years we've almost ruined this country's economy, so that at the time of the pandemic, we won't have so many scruples, when people are dying, when we build a homage of hospitals, we've built in Batajnica, in Kruševec, in Karaburma, it'll be built in Nis, it'll be built in Novi Sad, what don't you say, and what don't these critics say, that opposition in Croatia for the past 20 years, a member of the European Union, is made one hospital? Here in a few months we make three, plus two will be ready in about six months, so five hospitals. What's this about? It is a good and quality crisis management, thanks to the president of the state, thanks to his determination, thanks to his political will, thanks to the political team, thanks to the good and strong political will and here in parliament to oppose everything that goes contrary to the national and all other interests of the Republic of Serbia. I see they fell by about 25m euros in that budget rebalance for the Trebinj airport. Well, of course, as we helped help aid factories in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Drava, where our people live. Well, it's normal to defend national interests. We are not going to put additional limits and additional obstacles on our people, towards Serbs both in Republika Srpska and in Croatia and in Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, wherever they live? It's patriotism, economic patriotism. This is how we help and thus defend the future of our country. In this way we defend the future of our children, which will take care of both Trebinj and Serbia's Gorazd and Foca and Visegrad and Eastern Sarajevo, as well as all those cities where our people live. We've experienced something that's really unremembered. Just look, I'm giving you a partnership with the American elections where there's still a huge battle between two presidential candidates almost to life and death. In all this difficult situation for our country, where our president, where most of us here are fighting for every job, for every factory, for every man, for every doctor, for every nurse, for every opposition people, in one of the most ground-breaking ways, are trying to disabling everything that is good and quality done, not during these past few months, but in the course of the previous few years, and in what way, wanting and calling upon the death of the president, calling and calling him falsely to take some medications, I don't know, I can't even say the name and what is said, by someone who was an academic citizen, from someone who was a national ambassador, who was an ambassador, who represented this country, Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić. If I didn't expect it from someone, it's her, because this country gave her everything, because everything she could take from Serbia and get, as my colleague Milenko Jovanovic says, and more than that. That in this situation when people die, when we fight for the economy, when we fight for each of our men, in the worst and most dirty way possible attack and put a target on the head of the President of the Republic, without, of course, another argument, having no idea how to help the economy, how to help with jobs, how to help with the health system. Well, she's a doctor, so I guess she took an oath. Well, I guess there's some kind of home education and some kind of basic decency. She was an MP. She was sitting here with us. Well, I guess these are some things that define you as someone who can't behave as she pleases. (Sandra Christmas: they can help. ) No, they won't, colleagues Christmas, they will help, but obviously they're paid to get away and it's their mission to get away and it's their only mission to get Alexander Vukic to leave and to take over everything we've done here over the past few years, because they're not interested in Serbia. They have no cheek, they're interested in their pocket, they're interested in how to make them rich, because they're the only ones who can run the country. They're the only ones who know how to get on a plane, they know how to get on a train, they're the only ones who speak, I guess, some foreign language or they're college graduates, they're the only ones with all the teeth. Well, dear gentlemen, you've made a terrible mistake, this is one serious party with your coalition partners, with a serious leader, who has a clear vision, not what this country will look like in the next year, two years, but what it will look like in 20 or 50 years. That is why we will vote in favour of this budget rebalance, so we will vote in favour of Serbia's future and therefore we will vote in favour of all those proposals defined by the president of our country, Mr Alexander Vukic, given the highest possible national interests of our country and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u543	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u544	Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have come to the floor on the Budget Rebalancing Act, and I have been encouraged to hear a lot of dissonant tones from people who should be representing the state of Serbia in a different way. In addition to the exact data that are sufficient parameters to determine how one economy is and in which direction it goes finds it appropriate to simply deny themselves to some of its quasi-data, and all what has been seen and what has been happening in the functioning of the Serbian state and the functioning of the Finance Ministry are clear indicators not only by our institutions, but also by world figures, such as the IMF and such as the European Commission. So, for that reason, I answered. It simply cannot be ignored and said that the gross product of the Serbian state will not be between 0.6% and 0.7% at the end of the year, which is one of the best results in Europe, if not beyond that. When we mention the surplus in the Serbian budget that is circulating here, we have in mind that much more developed countries in the world have a double surplus in their budget, which is the product of what no one could expect the pandemic, in which direction it will develop and not only today we do not know, we do not even know how long it will last and how it will continue to manifest. When it comes to budget rebalancing, we understand what the funds are intended for and what they are defined for, simply to build and continue building capital facilities and capital investments, what Serbia needs and what makes Serbia's gross product bigger, to make the result better. When it comes to budget rebalancing, we clearly know that two coves of the hospital are currently being built, not to mention how planned it is by the end of the year to revitalise or construct or build or equip the homes of health, hospitals and all that is needed for the health of the population, and we never know how many of these facilities we will need in the future. What I wanted to point out is that Serbia has over a billion and 900 million euros in foreign investment this year, which is one good direction and one good path for Serbia. I can't get away without reminding myself not to go back a little bit, so when we mention 2014, we know exactly where Serbia was then. I'd like to remind those unfaithful Tom, those who want to minimize in every way what the Republic of Serbia is, what our president of the state and our government did in the previous period, and I'd just remind you that the state of Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy. Only with the brave and wise policy that Mr Alexander Vukic then led, it is simply moves that have been taken, Serbia today thousands of miles away from bankruptcy. Now, that's size and that's wisdom. I'd just like to remind you that our public debt to abroad was close to 80%, we're below 60% today, and we hope that it will continue in the future. Unemployment in 2014 was 26.7%, so today it is 7.3%. Isn't that visible to everyone, isn't that an indication of what direction the state of Serbia is developing. When it comes to the GDP planned, or expected for 2021, we are witnessing that we will be among the first again, if not the first in Europe to have a projected GDP growth for 2021. In the end, let's not forget, last time I wasn't able to talk about the ministry that was newly formed, the village ministry. I would dare say that this ministry is revolutionary, something that the president of the state and our government did because it is the final moment to pay attention to the village in Serbia. We know of the maximum, there is no rich Serbia without a rich village, and we know how things are. Only for a short while, since I was born in the area of Kurzumlia, it is the only municipality with a border line with Kosovo has more than 105km of a common line. Of the existing villages in the area today, there are certainly no more than 20, there are no residents, there are no residents. The final moment is for the Ministry of Rural Development to pay attention to just such border areas where it was once living in abundance. I could freely use that dictionary, and since I was president of the Panteleus City Municipality and I know the situation well, of the 12 villages in the Panteleus municipality, everything in three populations is not moving, or young people remain in the country. There is much more to be devoted to keeping these nine villages, nine or ten villages young people, because they need a lot of accompanying content to keep them in the country. I would just point out one problem that is acute and that lasts for years, when it comes to cooperative homes or homes of culture, however you will, simply by some magical policy at that time became the contents of bankruptcy managers who for years, I would say 15 years no worries about it are taking place, and simply these objects that are magnificent fail, and citizens, or young people, ultimately, have nowhere to gather, have nowhere to meet. That's where I'd ask the minister to make the first move in that direction. In the end, we owe a great debt of gratitude to our President, to our Government for the brave and responsible policy of leading our country. We also owe great gratitude to our healthcare professionals who fight day and night for the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u545	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u546	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we have a agenda point for budget rebalancing. This, as we've heard, is the second budget rebalance in a row this year. I would like to say that this rebalancing is proof that all the measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia took in the previous period in the fight against Kovid 19 have brought the results that were expected, even these results have been exceeded. We have proved that in fact the state puts citizens' interests first. Besides, of course, fighting to preserve the health of our population, much has been done to preserve our economy. We have had the opportunity to hear a number of criticisms when it comes to the measures that were then taken, especially regarding these 100 euros that the citizens were getting, but actually I can only say - any honor at the measures taken, because as an economist I can say that it is important to maintain the circulation of the economy, it is important to keep the wheels of the economy functioning, and this measure is a double effect. First, it directly influenced and helped the citizens themselves who, by spending these funds, indirectly helped our economy, our producers, our hosts, our tourist facilities and agencies. That the measures produced results show, of course, macroeconomic indicators. We see that by the end of the year, Serbia will actually be a leader in GDP growth, i.e. it will be minus 1%, which is a good basis for next year, when recovery is expected and Serbia achieves a significantly higher percentage of growth than what the Fiscal Council is designing, which are pessimistic views. I think 5% to 6% is something that can be realistically expected. Of course, other aspects, such as maintaining a low inflation rate of 1.7%, such as preserving a stable exchange rate, are also important segments when it comes to business and the work of our economy. What is also to praise the budget itself is that, unlike some other states, Serbia has not given up on capital projects, but is investing even more money. We see with this budget rebalancing that even more funding is defined for subsidies, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to agriculture, when it comes to infrastructure, mostly travel. Building roads, building infrastructure is the basis for economic development, for the arrival of new foreign direct investments and as a person coming from the Rasin County, I can say that I am proud that we will finally get the highway, i.e. the Moravski Corridor, which will be the most modern highway in Serbia and the region. They can criticize these as many as they want, which they claim is to build a road of four tapes. They have so far been able to build 44 times that they wanted to, but they are not really interested in what is in the interests of Serbian citizens. They are in the interest of their personal interests and because of the duration of the session itself I had opportunities on social networks to see their criticisms which, I may say freely, were critics for criticism. They speak of some of the flat-rate analyses they provide, saying that, I don't know, on average, citizens will be additionally in debt, etc. Well, unlike their period, when they were in charge of citizens for their own interests, what we're doing today is actually fighting for the health of citizens, fighting for our economy, and this way of financing the realisation of projects is actually something that will come back to us and we'll be able to repay those funds and reduce the public debt, as we did in the previous period, before the crown appeared, we were working on it. All congratulations on the fact that this public debt will remain below the mastite 60%, and by these criteria we are much better than many EU countries. What I'm also trying to say is that it's great what the state is investing in the development of the health system. It's not like it wasn't investing, it was investing anyway. A Clinical Center was built in Nis, numerous homes of health, hospitals were renovated. Now this has been intensified and thanks to the reforms that started in 2014 and to the continuity of the policies implemented by governments after the government of Aleksandr Vukic, they have actually created the conditions that we could respond in time to the occurrence of a crown that is a new challenge not only for us, but for the whole world, and therefore we have managed to preserve and protect the health of citizens and to fight that our health system does not fall, but that it can resist all the temptations that exist. Today I read in the local newspaper "Wins", this hospital in Krusevec, a covid hospital, ends. It will end in all the deadlines foreseen and the citizens of Kruševec have had the opportunity to see the photos as it now looks at the current stage of construction. I can say that this really is a big venture and pride, when it comes to construction, because it has never happened in history that we have managed such objects and capital projects for such a short period of time to finish, which is what President Vukic says. In the end, I just want to say that I am sure that all the projections that we have received, when it comes to this budget rebalance, are both realistic and, as my colleagues have said, have met the static and dynamic criteria, when it comes to budgeting, and I am sure that this will be a great basis for budgeting for 2021, which will allow our economy to progress further and to return to that trend of further development. Certainly, and the efforts that seem to be made by the state leadership, when it comes to the realization of the idea of "mini Schengen", of connecting the region, of removing barriers and borders that will contribute to the whole region's progress and that we have changed our consciousness and realized that only if we are in agreement, if we all work together, and that we can successfully cope with this crown are actually proof that all of these projections that we receive from both the government and the ministry are and that what we need to base our decisions on, rather than other external factors. As a member of the SNS and other MPs, we will support this proposal of rebalancing with satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u547	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u548	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the budget rebalancing we have been considering at this session is the continuation of the continuity that we have started, above all, with the first rebalancing and which has shown that this country is ready to react and in the most difficult situations, and there is no need to explain how difficult this year is and how difficult it has managed to, not at the level of the state of Serbia, not only Europe, but throughout the world, make serious changes and these serious changes have caused major and serious problems. The very state of Serbia has managed to react in the best possible way to protect both citizens and the economy and the future of our children. We cannot ignore the fact that everyone in the environment, but also in Europe used models that were painted or were a copy of some other models, but the models that Serbia applied were just unique and gave the best possible results. This second rebalancing is a continuation of the first and a continuation of continuity that will ensure the safety of citizens, which will, above all, provide protection for our citizens on the one hand, the best possible response to the danger that comes with the child, but on the other hand it will also protect the economy, protect and invest, protect and protect the future of our children, but it will also protect what is most important, which is the stability of the state and stability of each individual. The budget rebalance is the rebalancing of all citizens, and when we say who is responsible for this budget and for this rebalancing, it is primarily the responsibility of the proposer and in this case the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and their responsibility is certainly great. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that responsibility is also for those who are considering this budget and what budget should be approved, which is precisely the MPs of this high house. So, no one from the congregation's majority. which I belong to here since 2012, has never been hidden behind decisions, and no one has ever run away from responsibility. That way we won't run away from responsibility for this budget and this rebalance. Rebalancing critics have no real reasons, nor have any acceptable proposals for a better budget and for better decisions that would improve the state and improve our economy. What do they say? In fact, their arguments do not exist, they are made up and all they can do is challenge Alexander Vukic and blame Alexander Vukic for everything in Serbia, not only in Serbia, but in Europe and the whole world. They have one big problem with those critics, Alexander Vukic, and these are the results that Alexander Vukic, together with the government, with the Assembly, achieves, and these results are the main argument in the response to false critics and false Democrats. Their democracy comes down to one thing, and that's what Wolfie hates, and I hate Wolfie and I hate Wolfie. They have a problem, citizens love it, Serbia loves it, and most importantly, Serbs love it both inside Serbia and outside Serbia's borders and love it for Serbs wherever they live. The government's budget rebalancing forecasts and it really is very important, and I want to note this, predicts again agriculture, investments in agriculture, investments in the village and, most importantly, continues and supports the country's 2020/2025 plan that brought a smile back to the face of all in Serbia. This project 2020/2025 guarantees that everything that has been done since 2012, 2014 will be continued. Criticists and those who deny both this rebalancing and all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic do on the highway, so let them say that this highway does not exist, go to the Clinical Centre in Nis or any other built-up hospitals, so let them say that this particular clinical centre does not exist. Have them come to Shabac, and let them say that the construction of the bridge and highway from Ruma to Capca has not begun, should they come to Shabac and say there is no company called Jasaki, which has hired more than three thousand people from Capca. Let them go to any part of Serbia and let them say there are no factories and investments. Let it explain to people who started working that they don't go to work in the morning when they get up and let them say that someone has succeeded with 27% unemployment to bring that unemployment down to 7%, and let them say that he reacted responsibly and seriously and primarily committed to the citizens of the state, which is Alexander Vukic, in a crisis situation. He reacted very responsibly, reacted strongly and reacted as every Serb expected, which is to protect, to do everything in his power, in the power of this state to make every citizen of Serbia feel protected and secure. The economy at the time of the pandemic is not a simple thing, but in the conditions in which such a government works is possible and above all, thanks to Alexander Vukic, but also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry run by this man here, whom someone can love or not love, but cannot dispute that this very Sinisa Mali is working and is working in the interests of Serbia and is working in the citizens' interest and that his proposals, his methods and what his ministry is proposing, brings results, brings new jobs and brings the best possible economic consequences for all citizens in Serbia. This kind of responsible budget rebalancing must be supported by all those who think well of Serbia, and I belong to the parliamentary group that we belong to, and I call on those others, the unbelieving Tom, to think, to look outside, to talk to neighbors and friends, and to ask if and how much they support what this government is doing and what this budget rebalancing brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u549	Thank you. National MP George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u550	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, we have today another budget rebalance, which is only a confirmation that we are on the same responsible course that the previous government has staged. The previous government has faced an unprecedented crisis so far in the world where the state of Serbia has had and what a good answer. If we look at the results, if we look at the figures, we will see that today we are proud to say that Serbia is the first in Europe to grow the economy, that is, we have had the slightest economic downturn of all other countries. That is not by chance, that is the result of all previous governments, which, of course, was led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, who in the right way made one environment so that we can welcome this crisis completely relieved, since we have a major surplus in the budget. So when we look at the numbers, they're clear. So 550 billion dinars this government, or the previous government, adopted and brought a serious package of support to our economy by which we preserved liquidity, which preserved jobs in Serbia. So today we can talk about this and what good results. It wasn't easy. The state subsidized minimum earnings for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, we have preserved jobs, preserved our people, preserved employment in Serbia and allowed everyone to work and still survive in all the difficult conditions that have hit Serbia. When we talk about other measures, the 100 euros each full-time Serbian citizen has also received a measure that has shown in the right way, said one colleague, had this one psychological dimension, that people see that there is a state behind them, that will at any moment meet the challenges and help each individual because we are right here because of our people, which is why the state should exist. All those who criticise this package of measures, let them wonder why all citizens are then, why we were all simply faced with the fact that we and how we had the opportunity to see that people applied. So obviously that move was good and that made sense. Also, the one-time aid to pensioners certainly was significant and certainly we are very proud of it. They tell us from the Fiscal Council that we weren't here. It's not a good idea that we were indiscriminately sharing money with all the companies. There is an example of France and England, where only those companies that recorded a 50% drop in traffic were shared. I guess we should be proud to have the money to help every company that needed it, not just some privileged who would possibly be close to some authorities. So we showed that it's important for us all to give money, to show in the right way that we exist here because of the citizens. As for the results of the fact that in the second trimester, we were the only country in this part of Europe that recorded the economic downturn of only 1.5%, unlike some that marked the 10, 15, 20% downturn in the economy. So, the fact that all these measures and how they had a good echo and that ultimately we received recognition from the IMF, the World Bank, all relevant international addresses. When it comes to this rebalancing, it rightly shows that we will still have the hearing that we are dealing with real issues that will be on the agenda. So we're going to invest still money in health homes, in clinical centres, two new Kovid hospitals. So we're going to have these ways of still fighting the consequences of a crisis caused by a coronary virus. When it comes to subsidies for agriculture, we show that we will continue to give money for agriculture, not to reduce these subsidies, but to increase them as much as we can see through this rebalancing. It is certainly a good thing that investment in infrastructure continues, i.e. in highways, rail infrastructure, in all that is needed today for the citizens of Serbia, which is that we have a quality life and we show that whatever the crisis has affected many aspects of life here and in the world, we show that we continue to continue in the right way, to respond to this whole crisis and that, I am sure, and next year we will record good results, and we have shown that we can. We're going to vote for this budget rebalance once again, and we're going to continue to be on the right track, and hopefully next year we'll have even better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u551	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Predrag Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u552	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is a great honor to be a Parliamentarian, it is a great honor, but it is also a great responsibility. This responsibility is even greater in times of crisis. We often tend to say that times are difficult, and the truth of the will is never easy, it's just a big question of how strong we really are to bear the very burden that God has given us. Serbia, like the whole world, has faced an invisible enemy, and we know that such enemies are always the most insidious. The additional problem is that even the professional international public did not know what they were facing when an outbreak of the coronary virus occurred. However, the state of Serbia has managed to find an adequate answer. I'm quite sure you wouldn't have found him if he didn't have Alexander Vukic on his forehead who, I say responsibly, is the best Serbian ruler quite certainly from Prince Michael Obrenovic here, probably longer. I am responsible for this because Aleksandar Vukic is a reformer in peacetime and he is a fighter and protector in times of crisis, and in one time and another he is a persistent protector of the state of Serbia, the one who leads us forward, which, by example, shows us that we can and must move on. That is why we, for the first time, are not to be intoxicated with glory. We need to understand how difficult it is this time, actually, and that we have now taken on one great burden on our backs. I'm sure, Mr. Minister, you're facing major problems and great challenges, but I must congratulate you from this place on two things. The first thing is that you have incredible energy to track President Vukic who has even more energy and certainly that's not easy. Secondly, you're facing quite certainly, with incredible demands from all sides. Simply, when the budget is created, there will always be those who are not satisfied enough. However, you succeeded in making Serbia a new Poland as part of the team led by President Vukic. What am I saying that for? In the previous global economic crisis, 10 years ago, Poland was the only country in Europe, not in the European Union, but in Europe, which did not fall into recession. The state of Serbia is today one of the best in Europe on this issue. We have the slightest fall, and it's possible we won't have it at all. If anyone thinks it was easy, let them imagine and let them answer that question again. At a time when big world economies, like America, which brings 25% of global GDP, fall into a serious crisis, at a time when the great Chinese economy, which is the fastest growing in the world, falls into a serious crisis, at a time when the Russian economy falls into a serious crisis, Serbia managed to remain on the surface. And I thank you for that, Mr. Minister. I thank you on behalf of all of us here, who are going to vote for this proposal, for thanking all of Serbia's citizens for having managed to get almost unscathed, unbroken, out of the first part of this crisis that continues and which is why we need to safeguard stability. We have to keep stability for one more reason. Serbia is in a very difficult geopolitical position. That's what God intended for us. We're where we are, we've built a house at the intersection of roads, we're facing various problems all the time. We are one of the countries that has the most different states in its environment, the most different border crossings with other countries. And it's not easy. It is, on the one hand, a chance, when you have those who are well-intentioned to you in the environment, but that is also a threat when you have those who are not very well-intentioned to you. In addition, we are facing the interests of the various great world powers that overlap here and who often know how to stand up to one another. President Vukic has managed to force these forces to compete with each other in such a way that they will invest more and that they will want to fight in such a way for our favor. He managed to save us from the Syrian script, where some others would clash over our backs and make proxies here. I'll say it again - if anyone thinks it was easy, let them imagine and let them answer that question again. Serbia has inherited countless problems. The Serbian factor inherited countless problems. But I'm glad we're finally here at the National Assembly talking about the Serbian factor, which we don't stop when it comes to the right of Serbs only at the avenues. We're not threatening anyone. We do not want to endanger any borders or other internationally recognised states. We just want to help the Serbs wherever they live. And we stick to the letters of the law, stick to the letters of the agreement, the same ones that Serbia is guaranteed. I am glad that today when I go to BiH, when I go to Montenegro, I can see that Serbs in Belgrade see their capital, that Serbs in Belgrade see their curator, their protector. We haven't had that in a long time. That's a lot of progress. When I say that we have to preserve stability, I mean that this position that we have is going to be further complicated next year. As we know, next January 20th, there will be a change in the White House. As we know, we have different states, with different aspirations, which in the meantime have further strengthened and want to achieve their interest. These interests can and do not have to be liked. We can consider them less or more legitimate. But in this world, there is often that rule that the power of God does not pray, even though God does not love it. We have to run this Serbian ship the way President Vukic does. And we have to follow him on that path. We need to create conditions for him to guide us. Because if President Vukic deals with internal problems here and if we are unable to maintain the stability of the Serbian state, he will not be able to face all those problems that threaten us and all those contexts that we can fall into, which can be very negative. I'm afraid not everyone is aware enough in our society. Some are not conscious enough, and some are conscious but consciously working against the interests of this country. The phenomenon of the quasi-Serbian elite has no one in the region. You won't find such a thing in any single capital. You will not find such a self-titled elite of auto-civilists who hate President Vukic the most because he has reborn Serbia over the past eight years. That's the first reason they hate him. If we had collapsed economically, politically, if we had continued to destroy our army, they would have applauded him first. They'd be the first to stand by him. They don't hate us because we support President Vukic, they hate us because we support President Vukic, the largest Serbian reformer in 200 years. That's their problem. And the job of all of us young people who have entered the home of the National Assembly is that, with our more experienced colleagues, we are fighting for that shift of elites, to finally call things the right name, not to be silent when quasi intellectuals and quasi scientists are trying to plow people and with them President Vukico by making up some plagiarists. And then when those same ones who did it are caught in the plagiarism, that elite is silent. If they keep quiet, we can't. Because they're the quasi elite and we have to be the real Serb elite. We have to lead this people that President Vukic does, we have to help him on that path. And that's what sleeves have to roll for. We all have to do our jobs, and we mustn't underestimate the work of the other, because everything is important, from health workers who are fighting in a bunch of hospitals, across the pathways that make new miles of highways that we haven't had in history so far, to those who deal with geopolitical processes. Every job matters. And no job can be neglected. No job can be marginalized. We must be united. We need to maintain stability. We need to justify the trust the citizens gave us. I'm sure we'll make it. Finally, I'd like to order something for the citizens who are watching this transmission. This is the House of the National Assembly, a meeting of the National Assembly, where over 50% of those who for the first time received the privilege and the responsibility to perform this great duty. I ask the citizens to be critical of us. I ask the citizens to speak plainly and clearly when they don't like it. I'm asking the citizens to be honest at those times when this congregation has great successes. Only in this way, if we look into each other's eyes and tell each other the truth, will we be able to endure on this path, on the path that President Aleksandar Vukic gave us and on the road which our descendants expect us to and who have promised us our ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u553	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u554	Dear President, the House of Representatives, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs and fellow Members of Parliament, and after a large number of presentations of previous colleagues, there is little to be added, says something new or to make an additional review of the budget rebalancing, but that does not mean that we have to be ashamed or not to repeat what is good. One of the previous speakers, my colleagues, pointed out one very important thing that we haven't devoted ourselves to, which is the fact that the rebalancing and the money that exists today in our country's budget would not have said that there was no such thing as, we have to admit, the painful reforms that took place in 2014. We must acknowledge that for the success of the government, the very Republic of Serbia itself are the most responsible citizens of Serbia, who in 2014 brought the greatest burden, and among them pensioners whom we are grateful today for all the sacrifices they made during that period. If we hadn't made a turn in our economy then, we would have had a collapse and the question is, would we have anything to discuss today? Something that Serbian citizens have to pay attention to and imagine in one second is the fact that we just return time and think that the state would fight the crown if it had happened in 2012 or 2013? Would it have been this successful and how many victims we would have had if God had not given it to us in 2012 or 2013, when the country of Serbia was on its knees in every way and every sense. What we heard here today is only proof of one continuity that has the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the continuity of SNS policy that President Aleksandar Vukic has and best proves and shows that even when we listened to the exposés of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and when we adopted the proposal to establish three new ministries, we received confirmation today when we see what is and where the money is directed through this rebalancing. Let's talk about now that we've allocated 100 euros to every adult citizen in order to help get over this crisis as easily as possible, I think it's too high because it's repeatedly repeated. But I will repeat once again that it is only an indication that the state can stand behind its citizens when it is most needed and when it is most difficult. I believe that everything we heard today and what has been authorised by the promoter, my colleague Aleksandra Tomic has spoken and what Mr Sinisa Mali has said is the best proof that money can be separated when the household is run by the ministry, when we are domestically managed by the money of all Serbian citizens. What we have to mention and what's the best way to look at everything that's happening today is facts and just look at the period that used to be before, and as today we've heard it many times, but I think it's kind of spoken without any special consideration. So, people have the fact that by 2012 or 2013, unemployment was 24%. Today unemployment is at a record 7.3%. If we're going to talk about whether the citizens felt it in their pocket, then of course they did, because the average salary then was about 350 euros, and today it's over 510 euros. And that's not enough and we're not gonna stop at that. That is why the "Serbia 2025" programme provides for the average salary to be over 900 euros, and we will never stop at the confidence that citizens give us. We must always underline these things for the simple reason that we are all together as representatives of the SNS, but first and foremost President Aleksandar Vukic, and then you, Mr Minister, are exposed these days to a kind of lynch and torture where you are called in the most ground floor by those who have thrown Serbia on their knees. Indirectly and directly, it is their fault that our country was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012 and 2013. It's an incredible dose of hypocrisy that today people who have done everything to ruin our country, and that, parallel to themselves, make multimillionaires today hold a letter and criticise people who produce recorded results. And it's just amazing today when I hear that the worst mayor in history Dragan Gilas is criticizing anyone for anything. You've had that opportunity, and you've been mayor of Belgrade, you remember the situation you've found, the cash register, and I don't want to talk, because there hasn't been any cash, you've been left with a billion and 200 million euros in debt. You were left with broken-down companies, you were left with a javelin, and that was necessary for someone to deal with. And today these debts are coming back, and today the tails that Dragan Gilas left for us are being solved, but it's amazing that someone who directly ruined the city of Belgrade by direct responsibility, today tends to be, I don't know, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and all representing himself as a new face, as if he never had a chance to decide something and ask questions. And you simply have to ask yourself if he really thinks that people here in Serbia are forgetful, that we all suffer from some collective amnesia and that we all forgot that during the period he was in power of one failed entrepreneur with 74 000 euros, he came to a fortune of 25m euros only in real estate. I don't want to talk about the 619m euros that his companies earned by trading on state television while he was the government, so, while he was a state, we all have to look at things together and see for real today that the biggest critics and this rebalancing and every decision made by the Government of the Republic are the people who ruined our country. It's the highlight of hypocrisy, and always and in every place of that thing we have to repeat for the simple reason that and in the next period, given that the Corona virus will last, we'll bring heavy measures, I'm sure there will be some situations for which they will try as well as for each other to use for their own petty politics, we will be exposed both you and we and all together to one kind of lynch, as we have every time. You have singled out one very important thing, if we had a surplus four years in a row and I would agree with some of the previous speakers, Serbia recorded European and world results at the highest level in sport in the previous period. Some of our scientists, young, smart people, have also recorded, but in the economy, we've always been ashamed and we've been in the area. Now that we are in all relevant opinions in the first place still that picture of the former DS regime trying to convince us that there and that IMF are SNS bots, everyone who praises us and these are points, and everyone who criticises us are the smartest people in the world. And here you can see how much more these people have lost every touch with common sense. What you've been talking about, Mr. Minister, is the most important thing about this rebalancing, and it will only be the introduction to the 2021 budget, which is to further strengthen our economy and further strengthen the fight against the Coronus virus. Here, colleagues have mentioned, and it is really proud of the fact that both the Kovid of Hospitals are being built in Kruševec and Belgrade, the fact is that in addition to the general crisis in the world, we do not give up on important projects, investment, we do not give up on infrastructure and thus show that everything we have been saving and what we have properly deployed in the previous period is now coming as a fruit for all of our citizens. I think it's very important to point out what we also mentioned in our presentation, that's the fact that we subsidize for 5.1 billion dinars of agriculture, and I think it's very good, because this is just a continuation of our concern for the village and opening if we can say so, of a new ministry that will deal with these issues. Mr. Nedimovic, I am convinced that together with the new minister, our village will be able to strengthen further and given that I have friends and relatives in the country, this news has made them very happy. So the demand for these subsidies is much higher than in the previous period. I think that's very good. What I still have to look back on and I'm going to end up with respecting, that other colleagues have a lot to say, money has as much to save and how smart that money is invested and invested and when it's thought about every dinar. If some previous authorities had treated the Republic of Serbia's budget as their home budget, they would not have had such problems in 2013, 2014, or 2015. If they had taken care of every dinar, not to take care of how each other or third end up in their pocket, we wouldn't be in such a difficult situation. I think you're right, Mr. Minister, when you said when you took care of every dinar and he didn't go aside and embezzled, then there's money. As they took care of it, you heard about the case of the city of Belgrade, but the most drastic example is and I'm going to finish with it, is an example of the municipality of Stari Grad. Gilas's candidate for mayor Marko Bastic, who celebrated some 13,000-euro smuggling affairs across the border, over the fact that I am not going back to the godfather, the abuse of the godfather, while he led the municipality of Stari Grad, in the period from 2016 to 2020, is being careful now, for various agencies he has singled out 1.7m euros. So, in four years, one municipality has allocated 1.7m euros to various agencies that have served only to pump out the money of citizens of Old Town, citizens of Belgrade. These agencies won money in various tenders, and then those agencies paid the money to activists or officials of the Gilas Union. De facto, the citizens of Old Town paid those people who fought here with traffic signs, who attacked this home trying to tear it down, burn it down, de facto all citizens paid activists Dragan Dilas, Marko Bastic, Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic to act like hooligans throughout the city of Belgrade. This best illustrates how they experience state property and state resources. Not to mention that in the Old Town municipality there was a television Shabac, not to understand someone wrong, I have nothing against any media, but just explain to me what the logic is that the Shabac Television has a room in the Old Town municipality. While the whole country and every municipality in Serbia and the whole city of Belgrade struggled to facilitate the lives of citizens, to meet them in the procurement of disinfection funds, cleaning masks, gloves, Old Town municipalities, watch out now, in the time of the Corona, the crisis in general, singles out more than 14 million dinars to buy computers in the Old Town municipality. My people, is it possible that your most disturbing jobs were buying computers in the Old Town municipality? To 75 employees in that municipality, they allocated more than six million dinars for office materials. My people, what are they going to do with six million dinars for office needs on 75 employees? And it best paints you how they were experiencing the register, and to translate it, if it's more difficult for someone to understand, then, like a prey that needs to be fueled in all possible ways by tenders and other combinations as they would say, and to pull that money out, put it in their pockets, give it to activists, and then let them fight for their personal interest and for Dragan Gilas to sit in the chair again. In order to conclude, I have said too much, I did not expect this time to pass quickly, dear ministers, I will ask you on behalf of all citizens of Serbia to continue with this responsible investment policy of all Serbian citizens, to consistently follow the policy of Alexander Vukic, which was launched in 2014 and that all together, as well as the Assembly, as a government, as one great team with our citizens, we do make our Serbia a better and even better place to live, because we have no other country of greater interest than our children and all citizens in Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u555	Thank you. National MP, Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u556	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected finance ministers and respected citizens, of course we are proud of the new IMF and European Commission projection, and for the hundredth time we should repeat, we are proud that Serbia has the smallest GDP decline in Europe, only 1.5%. And why are we champions? Because we're not divided by society, we see these days America is divided by society. So, we're complex, we have a capable power, we're going in one best direction. In Serbia, there is a mertocrat, the rule of the best and most capable, and by 2012 there was a yellow laureate in Serbia. Once again, why are we champions? Well, because we have the best finance minister, Sinisha Mali, because we have the best prime minister, Ana Brnabic, and because we have the best president, Alexander Vukic. The biggest challenge this year, the biggest problems are economics and pandemics, but the biggest challenge is not that, the biggest challenge is the hatred of an aggressive minority against the government that halved Serbia, spreading false news and waning a special war at the time of the epidemic against its own country. Let us just remember, today we are in the Assembly, attacking the Assembly, which lasted five days during July. It wasn't just a special war, it was a real war against this country, it was this aggressive minority, 500 to 1,000 fascists. It's hard to fight on two fronts. So, the first front, of course, is the fight against the virus, the fight for the economy, the fight for society, and the second front is the fight against misinformation, the fight against false news, and everything that makes the fifth column of the Coron virus that works through Gilasova, Jeremic and Obradovic's parties, and some other media TV "N1", TV "Nova", "Today", "NIN", "Time" and their portals, there is one 24 of these micromedias, which have so many, and which have influence, and have an impact on 5% of the population. The employers are, of course, Gilas and Solak. The goal is to shake and bring down power in Serbia, to destabilise Serbia, dispute, beware, we have been witnesses since March, all epidemiological measures. So, even the expertise of the medical experts of our heroes who are naturally exposed to the bestial satanization. Let's just remember from March that the mean Dragan Djilas and Nikola Jovanovic have suggested that pensioners go for those deadly walks. We had to say no. Let's remember they were trying to destroy the Duke's Clinical Center with false news because they said there was chaos there, that it was about to collapse. It was a great situation at the clinical center. Then, in Vojvodina, in Novi Sad, there is the slightest infection. Our government has raised an awful lot of hospitals, 90 homes of health and medical care, and another six are being built. It builds and rebuilds 20 hospitals for 200m euros. More clinical centres are being built for 300m euros. Of course, the Nis Clinical Center was built. Compared to 2012 the doctor's salary has been increased by 57%, and the nurses' salaries by 67% and in the Korona period the medical staff received 10% more since January, as far as I know, will receive more increases. So, the public finances are stabilized, unemployment is at a minimum level, the average salary, we heard that, but we need to repeat it a hundred times, is over 500 euros. 200,000 jobs were created. It was built 320km of highways more than in the previous 40 years and another 290km of highways are being built. We've got low inflation, we've got salary and pension growth, and we beat Corona on two occasions, we're gonna beat her. I'm sure there'll be a vaccine next year. "With the stars we will move the roads, the suns are filled with hillbilly colds, that in all the corners of dawn, the soul goes mad, Santa Maria della Saluta." Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u557	Thank you. National MP Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u558	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the Government, Ms. Ana Brnabic, said a few days ago when she spoke about the government's work programme, she pointed out six goals also detailed by President Aleksandar Vukic, who are key to the future of our country and the future of this government's work. Before I say anything more about one of these goals, I would like to point out that the SNS, led by President Alexander Vukic, has received huge support in the previous elections. We MPs selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, we made a firm promise to the Prime Minister that we would be good associates for everything the Government intends to do in the next period and presented in the programme. We have results behind us, and we must have a strong fight ahead of us, because we have clear goals and we have a plan -- "SRIBIA 2025" which you spoke of this morning, because the future of your children and the future of Serbia's citizens have given us our hands. The first goal and priority of all priorities is the fight against Kovid 19 virus and the preservation of the health system, the construction and equipment of covid hospitals, the general renewal of hospitals, health homes, the assistance of healthcare professionals. All of these are indicators that say that the correctness of investment in health infrastructure has positioned Serbia in a better position than some far richer countries in Europe and in the world elections. Especially thanks to our fiscal stability and economic strength, we managed to provide money for treatment, for equipment, but we had continuity, we had a continuation of road construction, schools, kindergartens, we also had an increase in salaries for healthcare workers, we had one-time assistance for our pensioners. With this rebalancing today, we are also talking about the cost of one-time assistance for healthcare professionals. Many large funds have also been invested in the economy. Citizens know very well how few countries in the world have dedicated themselves to increasing the standard of living, and how this has been done here, and it has just provided responsible policies and household budget treatment, according to our citizens' money in the previous period. We can only imagine what a scenario would be if this pandemic hit Serbia in 2012. It is important for our citizens today to hear that we will have a salary increase early next year, that we will have an increase in pensions, that we will have a raise in minimum earnings. It is also important for our citizens to hear that Serbia has not stopped when it comes to foreign direct investment and that today, when we talk about the rebalancing of this budget, we also support foreign investment. It is very important for us to continue to open new factories, we are very important to continue to create new jobs. We need to secure the future for generations to come. The promises we made in the first rebalancing were fulfilled, and today with this second rebalancing we are creating the possibility of a stronger battle with the coronary virus. This year we end up as a leader in Europe at the rate of growth. In addition to all this despite the daily struggle of President Alexander Vukic, we, on the other hand, have daily and malignant statements, attacks and insults, and it is no longer seen whether it is the president, whether it is his children, whether it is the crisis headquarters, whether it is the profession, whether it is anyone, it comes from those who do not have a programme, who have no result. Gilas and all his associates are free to go to Serbian citizens, when they have so much space in their media, to say what they have left behind and to give an idea, let them give the programme so that they can fight this pandemic that has hit the whole world. Dear Ministers, I am sure that construction and roads and schools and hospitals and kindergartens will continue in Serbia, that we will have stable finances, that there will be an increase in wages and pensions. Also, I am sure that our country will continue to develop evenly, but above all, what we are doing today with this rebalancing is important for us to preserve the health and lives of our citizens. I wish you a lot of success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u559	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u560	At the very beginning, first of all, I would like to welcome the chairman and all the distinguished colleagues, as well as the public who is following this transmission. To commend our finance minister who's been sitting here for eight hours. We all went out, we ate something, we went to the bathroom, and he's sitting here, he's listening and he's keeping an orderly record of all these discussions, and absolutely all of what we're doing here together is implementing a program that we announced. This particular rebalancing, when you look at the exposures that we last had the opportunity to hear from Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, we see that this rebalancing that we have today is in line with the exposé. What is also very important is that it is in line with the "Serbia 2025" plan. These are very important things, and in terms of the assessment that Minister Sinisha Mali represented here during the first rebalancing. And you can see that these estimates were extremely good and that in some ways we were even a little bit more pessimistic than what was the real situation that was presented here with this other rebalancing. What have we forgotten? We have forgotten what year we are in, and that this year, unfortunately, which is on the verge, which will be marked by the coronary virus, a major global infection that in some way, as it says here in the rebalancing, has affected not only the economy of Serbia, but also the economy of the whole world. We cannot isolate ourselves from it, as we cannot isolate ourselves from the fact that Serbia was practically closed, locked up, hid from that infection in March, April of May, in the first week of May, and that the economy was unquestionably in that period had to stagnate to preserve what is a priority and one of these six priorities that we now have in the new government and a new council, which is the fight against the crown of the virus, the fight for better and better health, for as few sufferers in the Republic of Serbia. That's what the point is. We put our priorities in order, at that moment when we were all trying to manage, the health of our population in the first place, as we put it today. But the economy, the economy, the economy has to live, it has to develop, it has to grow. When you look at all these measures, that I am not burdening the citizens of the Republic of Serbia again with statistics, because it is difficult with the statistics that are being read and presented today, which is completely justified that we are talking about today, feeding the citizens of Serbia, but we are not presenting this statistics to talk about statistics, we have done everything we have promised. Let us therefore, specifically, as the minister said, repeat the things that the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Finance, which is this National Assembly, this Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose president as leader has presented to help its citizens in a situation that has hit the whole world, and thus our beloved country. Well, when we talk about it in a row, let's remind ourselves of what was extremely important for the economy. Of all these people today who say the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about businessmen, did they all get five minimums in the package? I see that there are critics who say that there should have been some classification in this matter, criteria to introduce, and not to take care of where the smallest businessman, who employs one worker, is. It is, yes, of course, what Mr Marinkovic was saying, is, economic patriotism is one new job, every day, every second, every minute if it is possible to take through the measures provided, through the legislative framework, through sublegal acts, through the atmosphere, through the ambience, through messages that come from institutions that are not forgotten. They weren't forgotten for sure if they got five minimumers. True, these two, to be exact, 60% minimum wage. But such support, in terms of either small, medium or large economy, whatever we call it, was not won by anyone in the region. Give me an example in an environment where businessmen who are also turning around these days and watching how to ensure, to close this year, to send final accounts, how to get out of this year, which is the state, the budget, the National Assembly, the government, the government had the courage to make such a move, or who had the courage to make a move, as promised, that every citizen who applied paid 100 euros? Isn't that exactly what one of the basic definitions of economic recovery of any country, which is to stimulate consumption? Well, who went out and spent that 100 euros in this pandemic era? Most or most citizens spent them here in the Republic of Serbia. Also, indirect taxes were paid immediately, so direct taxes. Someone got paid to go home and feed their kids. When these isolation measures were over and everything we had to go through, he sent those kids to kindergarten, to school, and he kept working and fighting. Now, those advocates who protested here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not to introduce a curfew, now they are calling for locals to close down, to stop the economy. Now they're advocating things completely different from what they said in that period. So, now we need to lock it all up, now we don't need to do anything, now we need to stop the economy, and now we expect, as we can see these days from these custodians, how they behave through their portaloids, through their quasi media that they've installed to only poison their contaminated news that they are solely aimed at failing credibility or the rating of Alexander Vukic or the SNS that stands at the historic maximum, but at destroying the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, because they know if trust in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia collapses that its public finances will also collapse. There is no stable Serbia without stable finances, and thank this man here who takes care daily about how and in what way all the incomes we have are directed, taking care and taking care of how and how the expenditures we make do not go in that sense of expenditure, but how they will be the primary investments that will open up new jobs tomorrow and not be spent items, but that they will be investment items, even though they may, if needed today, also for some budget grants, have to be put on as well. What is very important in all of this is that we also took care of those who cared most about the citizens during this period, which is health care workers. It should not be forgotten that we have also promised that we have given a 10% increase to healthcare workers and that these new measures are now announcing this symbolic but strong message of 10,000 dinars that will go to all health workers. We haven't forgotten the pensioners. Pensioners got that one-time aid of 4,000 dinars. They were in the category like all other citizens of 100 euros and, most importantly, for every pensioner, and from this pay phone here, the minister repeated it today and we all repeat it, and that is the stability of the payment of all public contributions in the future. We could hear today, what is the greatest relief today in this pandemic era, which is nevertheless a privilege, which is the security of payment and wages and pensions in the Republic of Serbia. It's a great success today, and any follow-up that would go that way, so we can increase by 1%, 2%, 5%, 10% in the future is a big deal, big deal, if we speak in real language. If we talk about the language of populism, if we talk about people being difficult, if we talk about a human accident, in this health disaster that has hit the whole world, we're trying to get political points, not having any other plan, other than criticizing, then it's clear that this is where the bad intention is headed in this direction that institutions collapse and collapse trust in institutions. That shouldn't be allowed. For this reason, we have all spoken and fulfilled, just for the very reason, as the minister said, that for the past four years, although many have had objections, we have had a surplus. We are good and dedicated to the work we have had in the past time period, I can't say that word, we were ready for this challenge, because no one in the world has been prepared, but we are ready to welcome and, as you can see, for this very reason, we can have these graphs and these predispositions that relevant international financial institutions say we have at this time – the highest economic growth and that in the future we will have the highest economic growth. The villains would say that this economic growth means nothing, that it is a flat-rate data, so I guess we need, like those who are looking forward to these days, to increasing the number of people who are sick in Serbia, that it should be closed and that in some way everything we have had these days as bad news in Serbia is expanding. There's no luck in someone else's accident. There is no happiness and political success in building your criticism exclusively on those things that relate to you saying without reason a certain thing, not knowing what you would do tomorrow if you were in that position, but you're only ready for that reason to criticise. To finish, we don't fight here in the National Assembly. We won our political battle and we won these elections and we got legitimacy and legality. We are now fighting a battle for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to fulfill everything we have defined in our programme and to make the citizens of the Republic of Serbia better. We don't fight with them. They fight with us. We are fighting a battle to preserve our economy, to build more kilometers of highways, thank God, one by one and according to my Republika Srpska and that there are more of us. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u561	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u562	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, respected finance ministers Mr. Mali, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by reading this budget rebalance, I was impressed that it was the continuation of the very story that we, our respected colleagues and colleagues, have said so many times here in this room when we chose the new government of Mrs. Brnabic, which is that this government should continue the continuity of previous governments, a policy that implies an even investment in every part of our country, in every city, in every municipality, in every village. I cannot resist the impression that we, as a responsible authority in these difficult times, have succeeded in this budget rebalance, but also in the plan envisaged by this rebalance for the next two years to allocate significant funds for large capital projects, we continue investment policy, the policy of large infrastructure projects. First of all, I am thinking about projects in traffic infrastructure, so I am thinking about building new highways, new fast roads, but also projects in the municipal area, but also about the significant resources that we allocate to invest in agriculture, in health and to help the economy. An economically strong and independent Serbia should take care of every resident, regardless of where he lived, whether he lived here in downtown Belgrade, Knez Mihailovo or lived in the village of Gornji Dubac in the municipality of Luciani, regardless of what religion he had, whether he belonged to a national minority. For us all residents are the same, and each of our country's inhabitants should feel the progress and improvement that brings SNS policy and policy to our president, Alexander Vukic. When we talk about major infrastructure projects, I can't help but look back at my city and my village. I'm from Apple, a village near Panchev. What is very important for the people of the Apples, but also for all Pančevci is an announcement of the construction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad highway. It is predicted that this highway passes through the territory of the town of Pancheva and this way we will allow Pancheva to have direct access to the highway for the first time. Panchevo, unfortunately, had the misfortune that in the past decades, in some previous governments that made up some other political parties, in which some took part, let's call them political officials whose personal interest was ahead of the state's interest, that every application from local self-government was mostly addressed to senior state authorities – and what will it be for you, so you are close to Belgrade? The construction of this highway is only one of the proof that Panchevo has priority in both this government and this state. This highway will enable our city to communicate quickly with all parts of our country and what may be most important, that the newly formed, communally equipped northern business zone that we have fully equipped in the previous term, and thanks to the efforts and efforts of President Alexander Vukic will bring in two large investors "ZF" and "Bross", we will make this business zone even more tempting and affordable for some new investors, and our city will progress even more and develop even more. I'll remind you that in some past times Panchevo has been considered a major industrial city. When we took power in Panchev in 2012, we found a city without vision, a city with no future, a city without factories. Today, with a responsible SNS policy, both in the local and in the Republic, we can say that Pancheva like a phoenix rises from the ashes. We lift him up and give him back the old glow. Panchevo is just one example in the whole state. There's a lot of examples like this. Equal investment in every part of our country, projects concerning transport infrastructure, construction of new highways, equipment for new business zones, opening and construction of new factories and new jobs, renovation and construction of new hospitals, schools and kindergartens will be the priority of the new government. Let's look into the future, make it better, but always look back and look back, so we don't make the mistakes our predecessors made. It's up to all of us to give our maximum and do the best we can to create an even better future for all of our children. What we must always keep in mind is that the people chose us and that we owe the people. This is precisely why I call on you people to support this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u563	Thank you, MP Mladenov. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u564	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of my first address at the House of National Assembly, I would like to thank SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic for his expressed confidence, with the hope that we will all work together to improve parliamentaryism and make decisions that will affect the better life of all Serbian citizens. In front of us today, the draft law amending and supplementing the 2020 Budget Law, which we can freely say that the continuation of continuity is primarily aimed at the growth of the citizens' standard of living, as well as the acceleration of our economic growth. As early as 2020, we met with the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, which has set new challenges before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are primarily the protection of life and the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the preservation of jobs and the smooth functioning of the economy. And in these new challenges, the government of the Republic of Serbia has clearly and resolutely shown that the state is not there for itself, but exclusively for its citizens. Here we must highlight the first package of economic measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has brought in order to mitigate the effects of the 5.1 billion-euro coronary virus, and the main objective of this package was to preserve economic stability, and what is more important is to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the private sector, as well as direct support for all full-time citizens. It is precisely there that the state has shown that the biggest burden of this crisis is taking over the economy to further relieve the economy and to make the economy go through with as little effect as possible. A clear indication that the state has clearly identified the problems facing the private sector in the emerging situation is also the delay in paying taxes on contributions and earnings, as well as direct payments to businesses through the payment of three minimum earnings. What has set us apart from the economies of the countries in the environment is direct financial support for all full-time citizens of 100 euros. If we add the value of another package of economic measures worth 564m euros, we come up with a total amount of over 5.8 billion euros, which, you will agree, shows the strength and stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What I would particularly like to point out is that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, despite all the measures the state has taken to mitigate the effects of the coronary pandemic, is close to 60% of GDP, which has shown that the state is primarily acting securely and responsibly. This security and responsibility is primarily seen in the construction of hospitals, health homes, as well as assistance to healthcare professionals, and the planned deficit of 8.75% instead of the planned 0.5% is justified, and above all because these funds provide additional primary and secondary health care to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For all these measures, we have received clear and unambiguous support from both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the European institutions. The unequivocal support of citizens was expressed in the June 21st elections this year when the list "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" received over 60% of voters, making it clear that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia support all economic measures, support the policy of continuity and support the policy of care for all citizens. Finally, I would like to point out that in voting day, I will support the draft amending and supplementing budget law for 2020, because I believe that only such solutions can provide a better and better life for both our children and for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u565	I thank you, my colleague, and I congratulate you on an extremely concise first presentation at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u566	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will strive to stick closely to today's subject. The fact is that both rebalances of the Republic of Serbia's budget were conditioned or caused by the Kovid-19 epidemic. The second budget rebalancing was caused, or conditioned by the extended duration of the epidemic. What can first be seen in the rebalancing is a deficit of 483 billion dinars or somewhere around 8.9% of GDP, however, if the package measures, first and second, are a total weight of 690 billion dinars, then the deficit becomes quite understandable. At the end of 2019, a budget deficit of 0.5% of GDP was planned and that is what it would have been if it hadn't been for an epidemic. Following the measures adopted in April and the rebalancing in April, a 7.2% deficit of GDP was planned and, of course, after the July measures and rebalancing we adopt today, tomorrow will mean the planned deficit of 8.9%. Of course, both packages of measures, both April and July, were necessary, necessary, with the aim of minimising the adverse effects of the epidemic on the country's economy, on employment levels, on the liquidity of economic operators, on citizens' living standards. Since the epidemic lasted longer than initially expected, given that it has an extended fact, a package of measures was made in July of the first month, but which extends certain measures in the same or slightly different form for certain economic operators, but on taking into account those areas, those economic operators which were not covered by the first set of measures of April. Also, the costs have been increased due to the need for a health system, i.e. increased treatment costs, so that all this affects that the cost growth in the second rebalancing system is 87.3 billion higher than in the first one. Of course, we have this building of coves of hospitals, homes of health, and all the rest of what our colleagues were talking about. I'm not going to talk about the measures from the first and second packages that my colleagues were talking about, I'd just like to make one observation that when it comes to the suspension of the income tax by three months. The delay for 2021 and the delay in paying taxes for PIO and health insurance means three months from this year for 2021 and later the second package was extended, or increased by another month, that not all economic operators were expected to benefit from that measure, which is in some way an indicator of the strength or health of one part of the business entities that have decided to pay the profits and to pay the income tax and all contribute without using that right given to them by the State. In this way, we have, say, that in this second rebalancing, we predict 9.3 billion higher income than the profit tax and 24 billion more income than the corporate income tax, because many legal entities did not use the postponement of payment for the second quarter of profits, the profit tax in 2020. So, the increase in these two tax items in the second rebalancing by 9.3 24 billion, which is a total of 33.3 billion dinars, speaks of one healthy state in many of our private business entities whose aid measure was intended. When it comes to the income side in the second rebalancing, there is a slightly less VAT participation of 3.2%, or 18 billion, but that is why we have an increased share of non-tax revenues, i.e. income from penalties, taxis, payments from public enterprises, agencies and so on. In addition to these two measures that I have commented so far, it's interesting that there is still room in the funds provided by the Development Fund, so of the 24 billion, there are still 10 billion dinars available, and when it comes to state guarantee schemes, or guarantees that the state gives to commercial banks, where economic operators can raise credit, there's still 100 billion dinars available. What these measures have taken, and of course the measures could not be implemented without budget rebalances, because it provides a financial framework and assumptions for implementing the measures, is that we have preserved the level of employment and it is interesting to look at some data. The non-employment rate in the first quarter was 9.7%, and in the second, many times said 7.3%. What's interesting is that the number of officially employed first quarter workers is 81,000 higher than in the same quarter of the previous year, and the first quarter includes March of the month when the epidemic started. So 81,000 officially employed workers have more in the first quarter of this year than in the same quarter of the previous year and 14,000 informally employed workers. When it comes to the second quarter, we have 60,000 officially employed workers more than in the same quarter of the previous year and 33,000 informally employed workers less. In the third quarter, we have 45,000 formally employed workers more than the third quarter of the previous year, which speaks of preserving employment levels, since the total number of workers in the third quarter is 2.250,000, which is half a million more, than the 2012 figure, when the SNS took over or took over the government. So today we have half a million formal employees in Serbia more than in 2012, when we entered power. When it comes to earning, or preserving profit levels, it is interesting that in the first eight months of 2020, if we compare the first eight months or the average earnings in the first eight months of 2020 compared to the same period of the previous year, we have that the profits in the public sector are by 9.3% and in private 6.8%. That difference isn't that big, it's only 2.5%. The private sector is well monitored by the public sector. This public sector escape was conditioned by an increase in earnings in health, as in addition to the increase at the end of the previous year, we had a 10% increase in the beginning of April. Of course, this increase in earnings was also conditioned by increasing the minimum profit, i.e. the minimum labour price, since it was 155 in 2019 and 172 in 2020, dinars, 30,300 net. When it comes to minimum earnings, I have to point out one really big credit for these and previous governments, which is that from 2012 to 2019, minimum earnings increased by 70%. In March 2012, the price of the working hour was 102 dinars, and last year 172. It's agreed to be 182 dinars next year. So next year, if everything's okay, it'll be 80% higher than in 2012. Of course, the average profit has grown significantly less than the minimum profit, and the average profit has increased by that period of our government about 30%, but it is even more interesting that cumulative inflation for all of this period is somewhere below 15%. In 2011, it was 12.2%, and then in seven, eight years, the SNS government's cumulative inflation is somewhere below 15%, and this year, when the year of crisis and the world's great pandemic, inflation will be between 1.5 and 1.8%, which is a fantastic success of this government in times of crisis. When it comes to economic growth, others have talked about it, it will not be as 4% planned, but it will not be as dramatic a fall as it is in other countries, and I think that the result of 1% of the fall is indeed, to the pride of all of us, the best result in Europe. Investments this year will drop only 5%, as Serbia is a high-investment country and infrastructure projects continue. This 5% drop is not so bad, and public debt will, as others have said, mean 59% of GDP, not more than that. Let's remember in 2012, public debt was 79% of GDP. Of course, if there hadn't been an epidemic, by projection, that public debt should have been 51.4% at the end of the year. What is interesting is the major inflow of funds into the PIO and RFZO funds, reducing the need for the state to participate in the PIO Funds. We had in 2012, that almost half of the pension funds were paid by the state from the budget, and half were the funds collected from the contributions. In 2019, we had three-quarters of the funding collected from contributions and 25% of the states touched as part of the pension budget. Now, in 2020, it is interesting in the first quarter that the inflow of funds into the PIO fund is 9.5% higher compared to the first quarter of the previous year, and pensions only increased 5.4%. I'm saying, just. I would like to emphasise that difference that tells us that all this has not happened, the participation of the Republic's budget in the total resources of the PIO Fund would be less than the previous year and certainly 80 and more percent of the PIO Fund would be from the current inflow, from the contribution, and only 20% from the Republic's budget. Unfortunately, the epidemic made us have a 23% decline in the second quarter compared to the same period of the previous year, but the situation quickly improved and in the third quarter we only have a 3% decline compared to the third quarter of the previous year and in October of the month we have a rise, or recovery, increase in funds compared to October of the previous year. The inflow of funds is 2 percent higher. This says that things in the economy are recovering quickly. However, all of this, cumulatively, in total, conditioned that the PIO Fund is revenueing 9.12% less than planned from the contribution, which is around 47 billion, so that the state from the budget will have to intervene in this regard. What I want to commend at the PIO Fund, I noticed that when it comes to administration and governance, funds are reduced by 3.1 billion dinars, which means that people behave very rationally. Yesterday, the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Industry, Stevanovic, informed me, which made me very happy, that 13 billion were reserved for public enterprises whose founder is state-owned, which have not been seen so far. I'm just going to brief you on an example from Nis. There we have a water company, "Erosia", which is state-owned. So, the state is the founder of the company, but the company is left to itself in terms of obtaining income, given that there are a number of private companies for the same jobs at this time and a number of private companies. It competes with private companies in tenders that discuss local self-government or states equally, i.e. under the same conditions, and it is interesting that these private companies were now seen in the first package. So they took advantage of all the help and opportunities given by the state through the first package, and let's say the state-owned enterprise that operates on equal terms has 50 employees, such assistance has not been received. Yesterday, we heard on the board that the state-owned enterprises in that situation would also be seen, which is good news. From this place I would like to initiate some people in local self-government, if there are those who have fallen asleep, that the way the state takes care and brings and implements measures from its level, that local self-government should also look at the situation. Not all public enterprises in one city or municipality are in the same position. Many of them worked, invoiced commitments. Those obligations are not lost, some will later be settled, but that money is there. However, you have a market, i.e. a market company that deals exclusively with markets, for example in Nis, which has not worked for a month and a half under the orders of the state or city headquarters, and you have a situation that we at one point have overcome the business and liquidity of the company with loans, which have made other public enterprises according to the market, however, the problem has not been solved and I think that recapitalisation or increasing the local self-government's founding role is the only way to iron out such problems. So the state solves those problems that are within its jurisdiction, but I think local self-governments must open their eyes, look at the real situation and solve the problems ahead of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u567	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u568	I would like to commend the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the work of your RES, but also the work of the Ministry of Health, as well as the work of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. counterpart Bakarec spoke about the latest projection done by the European Commission and the IMF, where Serbia recorded the lowest GDP decline of 1.5% in Europe. I would add Mr Bakarec, the comparisons for the region, because the countries in the region have a significantly larger decline than Serbia, so the comparisons for Croatia have a 9% drop, Montenegro has a drop of 12%. But there is also no lagging behind EU countries, or Western countries, such as Germany, which has a 4.1%) decline, and the biggest GDP decline is recorded by Spain, of as much as 12.8%. Also, the European Commission and the IMF are forecasting Serbia to grow by around 5% next year. I must point out that the lowest unemployment rate in Serbia was recorded in 2020 and there was no mass layoff of workers, but all because of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the state helped economic operators. Also, we have a stable course of dinars, which is very important to us, and inflation is strictly under control. Mr. Minister, I would like to share with you, because I read certain tycoon media, because someone who brought Serbia to the beggar stick gave himself the right to talk about how businesses and businesses should be helped. Well, Mr. Gilas, it bothers you that you are helping all businesses linearly, and it is clear to all of us that it would be most appropriate for you to be selective and to determine exactly who needs to be helped. Those times are long gone. Instead of looking at certain facts as some opposition, you're running for certain ideas, you'd like to make a selection to help economic operators. That's a real shame. It is obvious that you are not interested in the real situation and everything in the budget rebalancing is covered to make the people of Serbia better. With this budget rebalance, we have covered all the capital investments we have planned, as well as assistance to the health sector, which we need today, and most needed. That's why we have a huge investment in infrastructure, the construction of hospitals, I have to repeat, the construction of hospitals in Belgrade, in Krusevec, but I also have to mention the reconstruction of health homes and the reconstruction of general hospitals throughout Serbia. We've had a 10% salary increase for health workers since April this year. Also, the health minister's order from March this year received about 3,300 healthcare workers for the purpose of countering the Kovid pandemic. The Minister's orders also gave special stimulation to these healthcare professionals, i.e. healthcare professionals working under difficult conditions and who made a special contribution to curbing this pandemic. The government concluded a significant one-time assistance to all health care workers, up to 10,000 dinars. It's about 120,000 employees. A large item in the rebalancing of this budget is expenditure for Kovid – the purchase of medical equipment, the purchase of protective equipment, which in difficult moments, thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, managed to provide everything that was then perhaps impossible, which is respirators, X-rays, ultrasounds, and one of the largest items and large items of the same in the rebalancing of this budget are also tests for Kovid. Also, protective equipment in the form of scuffanders, gloves, masks, coughs, caps, coats and others. But also disinfectants. We also have, let's not forget, because we have to mention the equipment and maintenance of temporary Kovid hospitals, which is also one of the items that we have in rebalancing. Also, increasing drug consumption, and all of this is to prevent the spread of the pandemic and provide better quality health care for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This rebalancing includes economic aid measures, granting subsidies in the hotel industry, building infrastructure, building roads, building highways and that is why it is also developmental. I believe the rebalancing is in line with the current situation in both the state of Serbia and the world, and this shows that the state of Serbia and President Vukic point to great concern for our citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I want you to move forward with this work, you are supported by the entire National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u569	Thank you, MP Radosavljevic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u570	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers, when we talk about budget rebalancing for this year, we must first and foremost look back at the beginning of 2020. In fact, macroeconomic developments at the beginning of this year were fully in line with the forecasts and the 2020 Budget Law. However, the pandemic caused by the coronary virus has led to negative health and economic consequences, both in Serbia and worldwide. The pandemic directly hit the global economy and set huge challenges to preserve citizens' health, economic activity, jobs and living standards. However, thanks to the responsible policy of SNS and Alexander Vukic in the previous eight years and the financial stability achieved, we had the opportunity to help the economy with monetary and fiscal measures to mitigate the negative consequences caused by this pandemic. The economic package of April this year helped preserve the liquidity of businesses, avoid the growth of unemployment and preserve the standard of living for our citizens. With that in mind, I want to highlight some of the measures in this economic package. For example: an extra of 4,000 dinars has been paid to all pensioners with March pensions, paid to all pensioners and all beneficiaries of social assistance at 100 euros, while the other full-time citizens had the opportunity to apply for that money. Also, it is possible to postpone the repayment of the loan and the lease war over a period of three months, as well as to postpone the payment of taxes and contributions to profits. Also, money aid has been provided to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and subsidies and large companies have been approved, thus helping to alleviate the shock caused by this pandemic. Thanks to these measures, the standard of living has been maintained, unemployment has been avoided, production capacity has been preserved and the liquidity of the company has been secured, everything is very important for our citizens and for our economy. It is also important to point out that the proposed rebalancing will not stop, nor slow down any of the initial and planned capital projects, which are important for our country's development. Also, the rebalancing facility provided funds for the construction of hospitals in Belgrade and Krusevec, for the supply of medicines and sanitary materials, for the extended implementation of economic assistance programmes for the economy, for the granting of subsidies to the hotel industry, as well as for incentives in agriculture. Also, I want to look back on what we found in 2012 when the SNS came to power. First of all, I want to remind all Serbian citizens that we have inherited an economically ruined country, people without a job, cities without factories, a country without any perspective. And just as it came to power, SNS and Alexander Vukic was made a complete turn for Serbia, where we were finally headed in the right direction. That they were not only empty stories show the following data: the unemployment in 2012 was 23.9%, while in the second quarter of this year it was only 7.3%; the minimum earnings in 2012 were 172 euros, and today it was 254 euros; the average earnings in 2012 were 366 euros, and in June this year it was 508 euros. Also, the growth of public debt was halted and then reduced, and in September of this year it was 56.7% below the Mastricht level. In the end, I would like to point out that I am proud of the fact that we have drawn Serbia out of bankruptcy, which is what wages and pensions are growing today, that roads and railways are being built today. I am proud that in the past eight years we have built Serbia in which citizens want to live and where young people see their future. For all these reasons, I will support this budget rebalancing, and I will take the opportunity to invite other colleagues, MPs, to do the same, because I am sure that, as so far, through transparent and efficient public finance management, they will enable and provide further financial stability, but will continue to develop our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u571	I thank and congratulate you on your first presentation in the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Gojko Palalic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u572	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since we had a high fiscal deficit from 2012 to 2014, above all, a low rate of growth in our economy, but an accelerated growth in public debt, we managed to stabilise our public finances with determined fiscal consolidation measures. The decisive measures we've taken certainly have brought results. However, it is particularly important to highlight the creation of a fiscal space aimed at increasing wages, but also to finance, i.e. the realisation of large infrastructure and capital projects. What I would especially like to point out today is certainly the encouraging exposure of Finance Minister Sinisha Mali, the encouraging projections of the IMF and the European Commission, which tell us that Serbia will be in first place in the next three years when it comes to the growth rate. In 2013 the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia was 25.9%, and today at the end of the second quarter of 2020, the unemployment rate is 7.3%, which is a historic minimum. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the results we achieved in the previous period certainly give us the legitimacy to present ourselves today during the debate on amendments and amendments to the law as a political force that is ready and able to change Serbia for the better. All we have achieved in the previous period is the result of basic, serious and dedicated work in all fields, and it is citizens who recognized our work in the elections on 21 June and supported the SNS and the list of Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and therefore chose the work and fight for higher salaries and pensions, new jobs, new and restored schools and kindergartens, health homes and hospitals, but also the building of a greater reputation for Serbia in the world. Despite being hit by the Kovid-19 virus infection, we want to raise our standard of living even more so that young people stay and build their future here. As for increasingly frequent attacks by individual representatives of opposition parties, it is clear to all of us that they can't even cross that 3% reduction. It is clear to all of us that for this reason they are talking about the existence of a chicken farm within a military facility, they are talking about a boycott, about election conditions. However, I would remind you that, when it comes to electoral conditions, in the framework of an inter-party dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, all the demands of the opposition have been met, and if we are to look at it realistically, they did not go hand in hand only to us, only to the SNS. When it comes to boycotting, we had opportunities in 2018 to see how the opposition boycotted, when we had elections in Kladovo, Kula, Doljevac, Luciani. The opposition then decided to boycott all elections, only to go to the Lucian elections, because they thought they could achieve some result there. However, they have achieved a disastrous defeat. So, their policy of insanity, inventing affairs, violence, aggression policy certainly cannot overcome the industriousness and commitment of the SNS in achieving our goals, certainly cannot defeat the responsible policy led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. So in the voting day, I will certainly support all proposed amendments and amendments to the law, because I am aware that we are facing difficult challenges. But on the other hand, I am sure that just led by this responsible policy of Serbian President Alexander Vukic, we will succeed in the best possible way to respond to all these challenges and to preserve in the first place the health of our citizens, preserve peace and stability, but also strengthen our economy even more, in order to ensure a better future for all our citizens. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u573	Thank you. Next up, the word has the People's MP, Vladica Maricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u574	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a budget rebalance for 2020 and this rebalancing contains a deficit, but a budget deficit, as a special phenomenon independent of surpluses in the previous four years, can only be said by one who has no proper objectives for this budget, because fiscal cycles are never seen in one year, but in a few years. We just received a surplus from the previous four years that allowed us to have a deficit in this year, and we have a deficit for well-known reasons, because of the Coronal crisis, and we see that already the cost of the Corona crisis ended from 30.9.2020, for our country is 550 billion dinars, and by the end of this year the total cost of the Coronus crisis will be 690 billion dinars, which is 12.5% of our GDP. It is Serbia that the battle against the Coronus crisis, as successful as it led in March, April, May and how it is now leading, began in 2014, when it entered economic and fiscal reforms, because at that time, and I remind you, we inherited a public debt of 78% in GDP, that we did not then enter into the reform and collapse of public debt, which by the end of 2019, brought down 48% of GDP, we today would not be able to withstand this budget deficit, we could not talk today about ending this year with a deficit, or with a public debt in which GDP participates with less than 60%. More colleagues before me spoke about a master criteria than public debt participation of 60% in GDP. Germany was the main promoter of the Master's Agreement and fiscal stability within the European Monetary Union, today Germany has 79% of the public debt in GDP. About other countries inside the euro zone, I won't even talk. It's over 100%, when it comes to France, Italy, Spain and it's over 200%, when it comes to Greece. The objectives of our fiscal policy in 2020 are in line with the objectives of the Serbian government, declared at the previous session when we chose the government, and the objectives are to preserve the health of people and, among other things, preserve the economic and economic stability of our country. If we were not in the fight to preserve human health, or improve the quality of our health system in 2014, when reconstruction, construction and equipment of the Nis Clinical Centre was launched, what was about 50m euros invested in, would Nis and all of southern Serbia be able to resist the first wave of the Corona crisis? Of course not. I support the proposal, and in voting day, I will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u575	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u576	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Finance Minister, let me say that you are absolutely right today when you said that there were no measures when Alexander Vukic was Prime Minister, you would not feel any improvement these years and you are quite right. You know that as one of Mr. Alexander Vukic's closest associates. Allow me, when you said that, to say that these are precisely the measures, not only financial ones, but in all areas of social economic life, they were based on the 2014 government programme or the exposés that I quoted here from day to day in this House. I know that political opponents listen to me, it's the most transparent, the most comprehensive, the most qualitative, the most precise, and now I'm adding the most realistic exposés from the first exhibition by Prote Mateja Nenadovic to Aleksandr Vukic. So, the best exposés. Why? He was so precise that from every area of social and economic life to the point of precision, he analysed the situation and proposed measures that were also painful to get out of the crisis. Allow me, when we talked about this today, only two things to give. In three years, while the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, 138km of highways were opened, 480km of state roads were restored, 360km of local roads were built, rehabilitated and 311 bridges were built. Refurbished 360 schools, hospitals, health homes in 130 cities of the Republic of Serbia. Later comes Ana Brnabic and continues to modernise Serbia, which is now, that it is not Kovida, and despite the fact that the Kovid situation is very difficult to get into Serbia's accelerated modernisation process. You know it better than we do, Mr. Minister. Let me say that today we have the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget for the country's most important document this year. During April, Mr. Minister, this year's first budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia was adopted for this year. The April rebalance of the budget was vital to the citizens and the state of Serbia as a whole. Why was he of vital interest to all of us citizens and also to the state of the Republic of Serbia? Exactly because he allowed us to operate, an economic programme at the time of the fight against Kovid, which you, Mr. Minister, are one of the authors of these measures. What's very important are they were brought in in time, they were as comprehensive as you said, but if they were comprehensive, that they were effective, that they weren't in time they wouldn't bear fruit. All three elements of Mr. Minister you brought in at the right time and that resulted in what we're talking about today. Let me say what that means? It means preserving the health and protection of the lives of our citizens and we have done it thanks to these very measures. It has enabled us to fund uninterrupted negative economic consequences caused by the pandemic by economy and by our citizens in general. We are today discussing a second rebalancing for 2020 and with this rebalancing, the total revenue for 2020 is envisaged, as you have seen, gentlemen Members of Parliament of 1.291.4 billion dinars and expenditures of 1,744.4 billion dinars. What's important, which is that this rebalancing has provided funds to prevent and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic caused by the Coronation virus. It's really precise, very precisely defined. For further equipment of covid hospitals, as fellow MPs today said, in Belgrade and Kruševec, for the purchase of medicines and sanity materials, to increase the financial resources for payment to the Republic Fund, health insurance for the purchase of equipment and medicines in order to prevent and spread diseases and provide better quality healthcare for all our citizens and ultimately for capital projects for the realization in this very difficult situation for which you said, 5.1 billion, etc. The implementation of the economic assistance programme has been extended. It was extremely precise and at the right time, and that means granting labor support subsidies to our hotel industry. Maintaining state roads, building highways, does not care about that, directly encouraging agriculture over five billion etc. What's very important is that you're right, Mr. Finance Minister, today when you said that there are not many countries in the world more developed than our Serbia that have such a significant programme of economic measures at the time of the pandemic. Indeed, and these are extraordinary results, and this is because the measures were effective, timely and comprehensive all of what you emphasized. Of these three elements every single one of them would not have succeeded. And the programme of economic measures had two objectives. To help our economy, why do we thank the businessmen at the time of the pandemic, especially in the private sector, and our citizens for keeping jobs and wages, for keeping jobs and salaries in the most part, for keeping both jobs and wages in the most part. If it hadn't been for the time being they wouldn't have kept it, if they hadn't been effective, they wouldn't have kept it. Let me say this, too. The economic growth projection for 2020 has been revised upwards by minus 1.8 to minus 1%, which is one of the best results in Europe. I think he'll be around zero. Maybe even more positive. That's my opinion, and we'll see if I'm right. If we hadn't brought these measures to support our economy, the GDP population in 2020 would have been minus five percent, that's the profit of ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister of the Time, the comprehensive measures that have been adopted, and whose, I must say, you're the author. And finally, I have to look back on our political opponents. I can't understand those who daily bagatelize the country's success in such a difficult situation. Here, for example, Sinisa Kovacevic, Vice President Vuk Jeremic, daily satanicizes the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his associates. Sinisa Kovacevic, vice president of Vuk Jeremic, told Alexander Vukic, but I would like Olja Bećkovic to hear this because she claims that no one has said such things. To quote it - burek courier fat, finished quote. Can you understand what this man, supposedly an intellectual, has said? Fatty is Professor Vojislav Seselj. You know why he's fat? What disease does he have? Shame on him, you human scum. It is this Sinisa Kovacevic, said Olja Bećković, listen to me, quote, day and month when he told this bestial lie. Then, I quote, there is no emotional relationship with the people, and you have Mr. Kovacevic? Well, did you bring these measures? Did you help with 100 euros people? Because you're defending the Kovid situation people, that instead of you fighting Kovid, you're defending along with the work of the intellectuals to be as many dead as possible. Shame on you. Furthermore, by yesterday, I quote -- slaughtering cattle, as he says, finished the quote, and that the plague, the quote, threatened to beat Vukic and his associates, quote -- I'll beat them, and add -- we should beat them in every way, complete the quote. And it repeats it three times. Well, come to me, Mr. Sinisha, and fight with me in the middle of the street, you coward. If you weren't a coward, you wouldn't be saying this. He said, like this and in the end, without shame and shame, that Alexander Wolf is a traitor. For these words, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will hold you for a few minutes. Now, this kind of untrue, disgusting lie and fiction could only be said by someone who has no humanity at all, no morals, no respect or any ordinary drunkard, or, as my citizens, fellow citizens and locals say, a simple hoax. Mr Kovacevic, Vice President Vuk Jeremic, when you said that about Alexander Vukic, Aleksandar Vukic had betrayed nothing until he was in power and now he is in power. You betrayed, Mr Kovacevic, you and your president, Jeremic, and here are the arguments. You are Mr. Sinisa Kovacevic and your president, Mr. Vuk Jeremic, and Mr. Gilas, and in Europe, Gilas. Why are you jilling? Because there are two passports. When it's for Serbia, Gilas, and when it goes to Europe, Gilas. European to work. You, Mr Kovacevic, together with them, broke the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and created the SCG. Is that so respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that so respected MPs? Furthermore, you, Mr. Kovacevic, Vice President Vuk Jeremic, along with Vuk Jeremic, destroyed that SCG, Serbia-Montenegro, along with Djilas. Is that right, gentlemen? People's MPs? Is that right, gentlemen of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You, Mr. Kovacevic, deputy or vice president Vuk Jeremic, together with coalition partners, removed the deliberate resolution of the issue of the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN to the EU and brought EULEX to KIM and thus stabbed the back of their own country. Is that right, gentlemen? People's MPs? Is that so respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You, Mr Kovacevic, together with Jeremic and Gilas, asked in 2008 an unnecessary question to the International Court of Justice the legality of the declaration of unilateral declaration of independence by KIM, thereby causing unseen consequences to our state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is that how the honourable Members of the people are? Dear citizens, you are witnesses and allow me to say more about Mr Kovacevic. He is talking about thieving, and you are Mr Kovacevic, Vice President Vuk Jeremic, Vice President, a man who is a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, along with the Mexican energy tycoon Elilia, otherwise Jeremic's close associate, millions of jobs and allegedly a brother from Harvard, who was captured in Spain in early 2020 for money laundering and bribes. Dr. Jeremic, Lozoja, has been charged with a corruption affair, believe it or not, three and a half million dollars. Jeremic has received $180,000 from four companies associated with Lozo's Pemex for allegedly consulting jobs. Did you, Mr. Kovacevic Sinisha, ask him where he got that money from? Of course you're not? Did you ask him about the betrayal of Kosovo? Of course not. Take it easy. Jeremic intervened in meeting Lozol with another world-level criminal, former Hong Kong Police Minister Patrick Ho, who was indicted in the United States for millions of affairs and money laundering. What is it about you, Mr. Kovacevic, that connects you to Vuk Jeremic? Answer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you don't have to ask the MPs. Is it possible to betray Kosovo, the one I quoted, or maybe the money, or maybe both? Let me say, you're attacking Alexander Martinovic, too, just one sentence. Mr Kovacevic, you will never, ever reach at least a fraction of the moral, human and professional qualities of Aleksandr Martinovic. Aleksandar Vukic, unlike you, Mr Kovacevic, who you attack daily by Mr Gilas and Mr Jeremic is a great Serbian builder, a great Serbian reformer, a great Serbian creator, a great Serbian defender of our citizens and our country and, above all, a great Serb patriot. He and his associates are constantly modernising the Republic of Serbia, raising it economically, and you know why? For the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u577	Thank you. The last speaker on the parliamentary lists Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u578	Dear Prime Minister, Mr Mali, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, and this law regulates general income and income, as well as expenditures and expenditures in our budget, the extent of borrowing for the purpose of funding deficits and projects, the use of donations and loans, as well as other rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources. When we look at this second budget rebalancing for 2020, we see an amount of 1.291.4 billion dinars, which is 46.5 billion dinars more than expected in April of the month and which is an increase of 2.4%. All categories of income, except VAT, are recorded in growth relative to the previous projection, while the largest positive change is recorded in the corporate income tax. As far as the income structure itself is concerned, it looks like this: tax revenues are represented by 84.4%, not tax revenues 14.5% and donations 1.1%). Factors that have led to changes in both heights and income structures are shorter and lighter effects of the operation of epidemiological measures through the ban on movement and implementation of certain activities, then faster establishment of internal and certain international economic flows, a slight decline in economic activity, the extended functioning of the pandemic on the economy in the international scale and the lack of transit traffic, not only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the environment and the drastic fall of foreign tourists in our country. When we look at expenditures, they are planned at 1,774.4 billion dinars, creating a deficit of 483 billion dinars or 8.75% at EU level. I would like to remind you that thanks to those programmes and measures of governments led by Aleksandar Vukic and Ana Brnabic in the last four years, we have had surpluses in our budget, and that this deficit, which was originally planned, is the result of increased fiscal spending in order to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. Many countries, including our country, have resorted to this method to reduce the negative impact on employees, on the economy, on wages. Three key reasons for the growth of the fiscal deficit and expenditure are the growth of demand for health services, an increase in capital expenditure, as well as assistance to entrepreneurs and the economics for the payout and maintenance of the total number of workers. Capital expenditure growth is very positive and it is 14% in nine months, which means we've raised economic activity. The subsidies were increased by 75.18 billion dinars, i.e. April rebalancing, and the total amount of economic aid in this year is 690 billion dinars, which, according to Minister Mali, is 12.5% of GDP. Only the increase in subsidies refers to payments of minimum earnings to economic operators, support for the hotel industry and further construction of the Republic of Serbia. These are subsidies for the Ways of Serbia, for the maintenance of roads, and I will remind you that Serbia has 45,220km of travel network. We, with this volume of travel network, belong to the countries of the medium-developed category. Then, these are subsidies for Serbia's Corridors, to build further roads and new highways. I come from Mačvanska Mitrovica, a place located in the area of the town of Sremska Mitrovica and thanks to the measures that the Republic of Serbia has implemented in previous years, the town of Sremska Mitrovica will receive two more highways very quickly along the existing Belgrade-Batrovci highway, which is the Kuzmin-Sremska Raca highway and the highway connecting Novi Sad, Ruma and Sabac. We'll be literally within a horseshoe of the highways. That's what's good, which will further contribute to the development of our work, but also to the entire region of Srema. Also, a large amount of subsidies go to agriculture and agriculture has shown a high degree of resistance to all the consequences of the pandemic that are represented not only by us, but throughout the world and we record record record record yields of almost all cultures and the growth of the number of requests for subsidies. What particularly delights is the fact that the total additional subsidies for agriculture will be over five billion dinars. This is the total amount of 46.7 billion dinars to be given for agriculture, which is the best proof that the Republic of Serbia is seriously counting on this economic branch and that we are investing significant funds there. What Mr. Nedimovic said as a resolute minister, which we as Mitrovica are very proud that the second term will already be Minister of Agriculture, is that the total number of requests for mechanization is growing. A few years ago, it was between three and four thousand, and this year six and a half thousand applications were submitted for machinery. As for the youth sector, they have doubled the number of demands and this is the best evidence that young people believe in their country, and on the other hand that the Republic of Serbia is investing significant funds to help young people stay in the country and deal with agriculture. What I also want to stress is the degree of foreign direct investment. It was 1.9 billion euros for the first nine months of our year. It's a lot of investment. It is the best evidence that EU businessmen, but also other countries in the world, believe in our country, that Serbia is both an economic and political country and is also worth investing in. Serbia has good results when it looks at the overall relations in Europe. Our cumulative growth in this year and next will be around 5%, and we are certainly in that area as leaders in Europe. Based on this, the proposed rebalancing aims to better fight the pandemic, preserve and encourage business activities and increase the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the MPs elected from the List of Alexander Vukić – For our children, will support the proposal for rebalancing in the day of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u579	Thank you. Since we've exhausted the list, and until someone else logs in, I'm asking the heads of parliament, or deputies or authorized representatives, do they want a word? National MP Aleksandra Tomic joined up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u580	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of today's discussion, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, you have had the opportunity to hear SNS MPs who have really given their support from more angles and their review of what this budget rebalancing should support, which is why in every segment of society we have been thinking about how to help Serbian citizens and how to deal with the biggest challenges such as the large scale of the Kovid-19 pandemic, because today we have over 2,800 infected citizens of this virus. I think that today we have shown really that we are thinking about everything in this country and therefore this rebalancing should be supported in the voting day, almost the day after the debate on a single amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-11-10-0.u581	Thank you. As none more of the representatives of the parliamentary groups responds, the word has been made by Minister Sinisa Mali, as the proposing's authorised representative, in the end. You don't want anything? No, I don't. All right, that's enough of you and the rebalancing. As for today's session, I conclude a principled single search into the draft of this law and all these other decisions. We'll continue work the day after tomorrow, at 10:00 p.m. Thursday. I expect and hope that there will be a brief debate on this one amendment and voting, and then at 12 o'clock, as I have already announced, a new session will be devoted to the law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases. At the very end, let me congratulate all Serbian citizens on tomorrow's holiday on November 11th, the Day of Peace in World War I, in memory of all the heroic victims, both civil and military, in the First World War by the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia. I'm closing today's session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 146 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. 165 MPs are present. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, given that National MP Nina Pavicevic did not take an oath to verify the mandate at the National Assembly session on 10 November 2020, it is necessary to now pass it. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. Repeat after me the words. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure? I've got Gjorge Milicevic reported here. Here you go.
