ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-1.u72453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the twenty-seventh extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 79 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a session of the twenty-seventh extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of the 101st MP, has been sent to you a request to hold an extraordinary session with a certain agenda, contained in that request. The following D n e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 40(5) The law on local elections, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. We're going to work on the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 195. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a hearing on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 40(5). Law on local elections. Does the proposing representative, MP Gjorge Komlenski, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-1.u72454	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee has proposed to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 40(5). Law on local elections. It is a provision that otherwise says that the political parties of national minorities and the coalitions of national minority political parties participate in the allocation of mandates and when they received less than 3% of the votes, of the total number of voters who voted, with a 35% increase in the allocation of mandates, by applying the largest factor system, by all election lists of national minorities and coalitions of national minorities' political parties. The Committee considered it appropriate to accept an initiative that the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, submitted to propose authentic interpretation to the Assembly in order to remove possible misunderstandings in future application, and in the following way, so that this provision should be understood as a rule that the number of electoral lists of national minorities' political parties and coalitions of national minorities' political parties increase by 30%, refers only to lists of those political parties of national minorities and coalitions of national minorities who received less than 3%. We are absolutely certain that this was also in the spirit of what is the amendment that has been adopted on this law and for this reason we propose to the Assembly that, in order to remove some ambiguities, in the future application of this law, accept the proposal for this authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-27-1.u72455	Thank you. Do any of the authorised representatives of the groups of MPs want a word? (No) As I do not have on the lists of elected Members, I am concluding a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set Thursday, February 27th, 2020, starting at 11.10pm, as the day for voting on the agenda of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the national MPs are present at the session. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 40(5). Local election laws, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 40(5). Law on local elections. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
