ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71860	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 25th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 65 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the proposal for a Law on the Memorial Centre "Old Simište". According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr Vladan Vukosavljevic, with his associates from the Ministry of Culture and Information. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. By means of the amendment, MP Miladin Ševarlic withdrew to the article. 15 and 20. It's a bill of law. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill of amendments with the correction, MP Miladin Ševarlic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71861	Thank you, nice. I have tabled an amendment proposing that the name of the Bill on the Old Fair Memorial Centre be changed to a name that corresponds to the original meaning of these sites or concentration camps, as you have defined, at the time of World War II. It was then "Logor Zemun", and I don't think it's necessary to change the names that represent the actual situation at the time the crimes were committed in that space. Also, if the "Old Fair" remains, given that we are likely to move out the current Belgrade Fair, then in due course the name should be changed again to the "Oldest Fair" Memorial Centre, if this one is older than that. That's why I suggest we keep that name. I have consulted on this subject with people who have done master's thesis on the subject of the Institute of Contemporary History and I see no reason why we should run away from the facts that were in place during World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71862	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71863	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that this amendment be rejected for the next reason. The amendment reads: “The proposal for the Law on the Memorial Centre “Old Fair” is also amended as follows: The Law on the Memorial Centre “Logor Zemun. “The name “Old Fair” is a detached name and I think that few of us, especially of us who are a little older in Serbia, have not heard of the camp “Old Fair”. Any change to this name, at least in my personal opinion, could be seen as an insult to the victims, because it is a detached name for their descendants. Therefore, on my own behalf, and I believe in the name of my colleagues, I firmly oppose the change of this name. Another reason I don't think the name should be changed from "Old Fair" to "Logor Zemun" is that this camp was never called "Logor Zemun". He then called himself “Anhaltelager Semlin,” or “the camp for the Jews of Zemun,” in late 1941, and was housed by Belgrade Jews, Jews from Serbia, in a small part of Roma, or Roma population. After what the Germans called a terrible name, the solving of the Jewish issue, he became a camp for all those who opposed the Nazi regime, but it was not then called Zemun camp, but it was called the Anhaltelager Zemun, or Zemun Acceptant Camp. So the name of the camp Zemun is no historical name, because he had two different names. He's primarily designed as a camp for Jews. I think the name “Old Fairground” is the only possible and only appropriate name, given the detached name and since all victims and all descendants of the victims of this camp remember and know by that name. Another thing I would like to say, which I think is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that this camp, regardless of what someone might think wrongly because it is in Belgrade today, had nothing to do with Serbia and Serbs. I will remind you that Serbia did not exist in World War II because it was divided into certain occupation zones, so Bačka and Baranja were under the occupation of Hungary. Banat was under some partial autonomy of Germany, but he was essentially part of the German occupation zone. Southeast Serbia and parts of the southern Serbian province were under the occupation of Bulgaria. The second part of the southern Serbian province of KiM was under Italy's occupation. Fortunately, to whom Zemun belonged, and all the way to the Sava River, was the largest state created in the territory of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which is NDH. So this camp was in NDH. Due to Belgrade's proximity, the Germans asked NDH to run this camp. The only requirement, although they did not have much right to make any demands, which came from the German side, was not to be any guard or any employee of the Serbian nationality camp. So this camp was run by the Gestapo, or German special police. The only Serbs who passed through this camp were victims, or prisoners. Absolutely the whole process was managed by the Germans. Hence, from the execution of Jews, which were carried out in one death truck, called “the soulless one, ” which was driven by SS troops, even to the fact that the burial was supervised by members of the German police, that is, the Ordnungspolice. So, Serbs and Serbia have absolutely nothing to do with this camp, which is what our citizens need to know, regardless of what they find on Belgrade's territory today. On the contrary, we were just victims, just like the Jews, just like the Roma, of this camp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71864	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71865	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these are great things and great moments for our people, for all those who died in these terrible camps during World War II and especially at the Old Fair. Some didn't think of it for 12 years while ruling Serbia, but today in their writings, in their programs, in their political functioning, those who haven't come to this Assembly for more than a year, those who have been gathered around the tycoon, the criminal Dragan Gilas, around his, I can say freely, the mobster, around his activists and officials, we can see that not only does this spirit of the past, this spirit of crime and the relativization of the history of World War II, and it implements how? By calling on Serbia to hang again, to kill people again on ideological grounds, religious differences and every other difference. Why am I saying that? Yesterday and every day, of course, but yesterday, I stress, on my YouTube account, on the Internet, a certain Dusan Milojevic, a member of the Alliance for Serbia, their political parties, wrote: "All of you who voted for Vukic and relatives would have been sent to work camps, and Vukic and others killed as Hitler did." This is something anyone can see. He goes online and looks. Literally every citizen of our country, who has access to the Internet, can see that the basis of the work of Dragan Đilas, i.e. the Alliance for Serbia, Ljoticvac Boško Obradovic, Jeremic and other fascism, is Nazism, that their main political ideologist, in fact, Adolf Hitler, is their idea of destroying everything that is Serbian, everything that is normal, everything that is decent. Resuscitation in this way is the idea of Adolf Hitler within the Alliance of Serbia, Dragan Gilas, to spit on the graves of all victims and the Old Fair and Banjic and Kragujevac and all other major sites of the Serbian people and Jews and Roma and all those who died in World War II. While debate is being held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and talks about the Old Fair Memorial Centre, we heard from my colleague, the previous one, why this is important, we also heard from the culture minister and many of my colleagues who spoke in the previous days, some of the Alliance for Serbia, led by Dragan Gilas, want to revive Adolf Hitler, so they offer it to the citizens of Serbia and say we should be locked up in concentration camps, that we should be killed, as Hitler did. Serbian citizens are very well-recognized and Serbian citizens know who, what and why he is doing today in the Republic of Serbia, who and why he is calling for such monstrous ideas, who and why he is reviving the idea of Nazism, fascism, the idea of Ljoticevic, who and why he is on that side. We can see their face. We can see both the face and Alexander Wolfie. They say Serbia is Alexander Vukic's face. Yes, that's what Serbia's most beautiful face is today on the side of Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. That face is the face of memory of suffering. That face is the face of opening new jobs. That face is the face of Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71866	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71867	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's a good thing we're in a position to create this memorial center. Normally, it should also be calculated that the name, or name of the memorial centre, corresponds to the real, or that it corresponds to the historical moment as it was at the time of its creation. I believe that we will have the strength to agree with our fellow Jews who have suffered the most in that camp and in the future there will be one solution that will be acceptable to everyone, so there is no need to discuss it. Mr. Minister, who is responsible for this, will make every effort, I believe, to settle this issue in a satisfactory manner. But we Serbs have one flaw, so that we can easily forget everything that has been done to us and to others in our territory, and we like to take the blame for ourselves and for where there is no guilt at all. I therefore urge us to create such an image in the future, that is, such an environment where we will take care of everything that is important and important for Serbia. I had a visit yesterday by women from the Organisation of the Serbian Sisters, who, Mr. Minister, today have a big problem and say they are afraid that the organisation, which was created in 1903 and in which women were very important, say painter Nadezhda Petrovic, will disappear. So on their behalf, I ask you, they will turn to you to receive them and to see how much and how they can be helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71868	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71869	Thank you, President. Dear fellow Serbian citizens, I would like to say that I am sorry that we are not all sitting here today in this room, because this is not a topic on which anyone should boycott the work of parliament and not be present, to participate and contribute to the work and adoption of such a law, because this is a civilization matter. We are full of stories about the European Union, about Europe, about anti-fascism, but when it comes to showing it, unfortunately, several political options in Serbia do not sit in the hall and talk about it. They could have justified it and could not have had a single word of criticism that they met today and the day before, when we discussed this, and that they contributed and showed that they were indeed for modern, democratic, European Serbia. As far as the amendments are concerned, I was really in doubt what to say, but the exact name of that camp was "Jewish camp Zemun". It is true that the detached term "Old Fair", which at the time was not an old fairground, was a new fairground, made in the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, a modern fairground which unfortunately suffered in the 1941 attack, was determined by the damages and then used by the Germans to make it a camp in which, as it was said, the Jews from all over Serbia, from Belgrade the most, about 7,000 of them, who lived in very bad conditions, for a short time, how many they lived there, which were only four small furnaces. The Roma were also conducted here, as was said, on the first occasion about 500 Roma women with children, but you know what? Based on the racial laws of Nazi Germany. We often talk about fascism here, however, and at that time there was a difference and there should have been differences, and we came to this term that we have -- the Old Fair, because after 1945, the communist government tried to hide these crimes in some way, even though it was said differently here, and to present them differently. Fascist countries were Italy and Spain, for example, but even worse than fascist countries were the two only Nazi or national socialist states in mankind's history, which are Germany and NDH or the Independent State of Croatia. Em in socialism should not have spoken in a bad way, so the term itself was problematic, Croatia should have protected against being a Nazi criminal creation, it should have been presented that we all had traitors at the time. Unfortunately, there were colleagues who, when they spoke about it, mentioned again that the Chetniks were traitors here, although we have the laws of the Serbian state, although on the basis of historical facts, we have leveled the Yugoslav army in the country and the Partisan movement as anti-fascist movements. I'd ask my colleagues not to say it here anymore, because it's a historical fact and proven. We also have to say that what my colleague Bauer said about the truck was true, the way people were killed. They're light, they drive them elsewhere, they're put in that truck, and then the exhaust gasses killed on the way to the Eggs, where they were right away, someone would say buried in a mass grave, and we can only say, buried, thrown into a mass grave. They didn't, and it has to be made clear once, and I'm going to end it, they weren't killed because they were anti-fascists, as some want to play. Of course they were anti-fascists and Jews and Serbs, because that's our education, tradition. Normally, Serbs who were for God, king and country couldn't support fascism, it was abnormal, it wasn't Serbian, and it's normal that they were anti-fascists. But the Jews and Roma in this camp were not killed for it, but killed by racial law, because they were Jews, such as 700-800 thousand Serbs in that war, women, children, civilians, killed because they were Serbs and Orthodox. And that was the reason. And since 1945, we've been calling ourselves a wing, because they wanted to sell us a story about brotherhood and unity, because they wanted to call us all and everyone to say that we acted the same way, and we didn't. The Serbs had two anti-fascist movements, unfortunately in the civil war between themselves, while others co-operated with the occupier and killed us because we were Serbs and Orthodox. That's the problem in Montenegro today. Why doesn't Mil Djukanovic's regime understand what's happening to him? Because Milo Djukanovic and his associates fell out of that 1945 vest. That's how they were raised, taught, breast-feeding, what someone would say. What the bishop Amphilochy says - they gave soy or nesos, let them think for themselves. He used one other term - the nuance. But they don't understand what's happening to them. They don't understand why people go out into the streets and why they defend their sanctity. They can't understand it, because it's the opposite of what it is, which is the people, which Serbs and Montenegrins are, but they're taught differently. They believed in a lie. That's why I'm saying this, and that's why I think this law is important, that we already make a difference once, and that we know what the Serbs were killed and killed for, and that we know why the Jews were killed, and that we know why the Roma were killed, because that's the only way we're going to make modern and European Serbia, and that's the only way we're going to go on, because we have to say some things and stop talking in a way that isn't true and stop talking about that flower there in Jasenovac as some victims of the fight against fascism, because that's not true. It's normal, because we fought against fascism, but they were victims just because they were Serbs and Orthodox. We must defend our saints. We must defend our people, because it is part of our tradition, our culture, our history and our European traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71870	The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71871	Thank you, esteemed Chairman-in-Office. The amendment, of course, should not be accepted because the distortion of historical facts is very dangerous. Serbia's advanced party headed by Aleksandar Vukic is now fighting to distort historical facts. Except for the distortion of historical facts, this is obviously about ignorance. Namely, the Simiste Memorial Centre was declared culturally well in 1987, and the decision was published in "The Official Messenger". But, of course, it's no surprise that we have amendments like this today. Namely, I must remind you that at the time of his rule, Dragan Gilas, the Roma in the village of Belville, had been stuffed in canned containers. I must also point out that Dragan Gilas, at the time of performing his Roma government, who had no residence on the territory of the city of Belgrade, had thrown buses and moved across Serbia. I must point out that in the Belgrade City Assembly's solemn hall during the time that Dragan Djilas held his own image of Drago Jovanovic, a fellow German occupier, a representative of Ljotic's ideas and one whose German occupation in Kragujevac led students to the shooting. Today, some would like to see the Fascism rise. Hate is the foundation and the engine of all fascism. Serbia is an anti-fascist country. Serbia is a free nation country. Serbia is a country where all victims are respected, but no Serbian victims are forgotten either. What we should stress is that this law first establishes a genocide against the Serb people who committed NDH in their territory during World War II, of course, and for the first time marks the memory and the real name all those crimes that the Ustashas committed in the NDH space were committed both according to both Serbian and Jewish according to the Roma people and all anti-fascists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71872	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71873	Thank you, President. I am sorry to hear the terms, that is, disprove my proposal with the allegations of twisted historical facts and ignorance. I don't know who's twisting the historical facts and who has the ignorance. First, Article 2 reads, in the last row, "Jewish camp Zemun" and "Acceptive camp Zemun". So in both these names there is a common denominator for the Zemun camp. They're historical facts. So it's neither a twist of historical facts, nor ignorance. Secondly, here I hope the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law are present. When we discussed the Bill of War Memoriales, I was on the Committee, and I asked for the concept of the specifics contained in the law to be complemented by a specific concentration camp. I was rejected. I was also rejected at the plenary session of this assembly, with the explanation of Minister Djordjevic that concentration camps represent other features of war memorials. The ignorance of which is now seen in Article 2 because it stands here, in the last row, “needing the memories of the victims of the Nazi concentration camp. ” So now, with this law, this proposal, I'm sorry, we've introduced the concept of concentration camps and what I've stood for since we've considered the War Memorial Act. Talking about someone's ignorance is really inappropriate. I also have a personal pitet, due to family obligations to a camp that was partly in the function of these camps in Zemun. In addition to these two camps, the "Jewish camp Zemun" and "Acceptive camp Zemun", there was another camp site on the territory of today's New Belgrade or Zemun, a pardon, New Belgrade, which is in the area so-called "Zemun". The Park of Friendship, not to mention the island in the Aqua territory of the Danube, where the shooting was done. So it was mine to suggest. As the first time you have not accepted my proposal that was established, you will not accept this proposal that was also established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71874	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71875	By amendment. When the debate was in principle, I said, you will say that I support the proposal, that I will vote for it and commend it and say that some things, of course, can possibly be responded by amendment. I must admit that I don't understand why, I would like to hear from Mr. Minister, too, rejected this amendment by Professor Chevarlic. So, especially how this can be refused by calling for historical facts or by distorting historical facts. If there's any fact it's that, nor is it at that moment, as no one called it the Fair, especially not Staro, that camp was at that moment a new fairground, only a few years old that location. The second fact is also that the term "Simište", new or old, perhaps more than the very term "Zemun", may lead to doubt, perhaps to doubt someone or in doubt, better to say, what it refers to and who not only had lunch, and who was carrying water, or whose jurisdiction it was in. When you say Zemun, anyone who has basic school knowledge, right, about history, it's clear that this refers to territory at that point in NDH. The old Fair also leaves space around you or gives room for that wrong interpretation, which, unfortunately, exists in one part of our public, to try, I say, forging, distorting facts to bring it into a relationship in some way, that site and that concentration camp, with Serbia and Serbs who really have a connection with that camp, but only as victims. In any case, I also respect an argument that may not accept that amendment, but I only appeal that because of the importance, seriousness and, as he said, the weights of the topic are avoided by easy qualifications, disqualification by some day-to-day political, current opponents, clashes, then stamping and trying to disqualify by attributing and connecting to these darkest details and parts of history, not only of this climate, but also of humanity at all. I would simply appeal to the debaters to make it a little easier, at least on this subject, to make arguments as to who is fascist, who is not, but independently, here I hear from the minister, therefore, an explanation which makes him, or those who have done this professional proposal, that even for Zemun, the camp Zemun is not adequate and that it is better to use the term "Old Fair", which, as we know, is historical and factually inadequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71876	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71877	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Ševarlic and Mr. Vukadinovic, have already said a lot about this subject, but you have your reasons for reaffirming your views. I'll just remind you of the facts, no matter which order I present them with, the facts are undeniable. Besides, the Old Fair Area was declared culturally well-being in 1987 and then it's hard to change that name. Finally, if we're going to be quite pedantic, when it comes to names, the camp was never called Zemun or the Zemun camp, it was called in German "Judenlager Semlin" and "Anhaltelager Semlin". Now, as the Germans experienced what Zemun was and what was not, the question again is for the Germans of that time, and most of whom, fortunately, are not alive. I'm talking about the Nazis. So, in the cultural and historical memory of this people, this space, I'm talking about the area in question, was officially open and dedicated to the world exhibition in 1937 and then it's not called the Old Fair, since there was no other Fair, except that. It was named after a new Fair, but in any case it was a space that had been a decades of existence, especially in these tragic, historical experiences, it acquired that name that rooted in our people and in our cultural and historical memory. The Zemun toponymic designation in the name, although it may have to be mentioned, is not very important, but there is a line for, among other things, the name "Judenlager", or the Jewish camp Zemun, in German and Serbian, contains one toxic note of cynicism. It's not a Judenlager or a Jewish camp. It's a camp for Jews, not a Jewish camp, so there's one thing that the Germans so viciously called, as if the Jews did it themselves. It was a Jewish camp in the first phase of its existence until half of 1942. Later, when most or most of the Belgrade Jewish community were extremized, killed ferociously, not everyone was fortunate, and it is often ignored too because, I would add, in this place not all Belgrade Jews were destroyed in the Holocaust that was being conducted in their fractals, there were cases among which some celebrities from our cultural life, who thanks to their community, their friends, neighbours, Belgrade citizens changed their name from Jewish to Serbian names and lived here in Belgrade, someone whom Tashmaydan, someone at Dorcul, all knew who they were, why they changed their name and no one gave them up. I'm going to mention cases like the legendary professor of FDU Hu Kline, so actress Rachel Ferrari, etc. So these cases were despite the fact that certain schools of opinion wanted to load up the Belgrades of that time responsibility for something they could not be associated with. The fact that certain parts of a police apparatus or administration carried out small technical tasks related to the total Nazi government in Belgrade cannot... Natasha Sp. And the Fossksdojcers? ) Folksdojcer in Belgrade has hardly been there, but I am talking about Belgrade now. Of course, the wider picture requires and includes folksdojchers who were completely on the side of the Nazis, of course including the SS Division, who gave the largest number of members. So I don't see the problem coming from the name. The name Zemun was never considered a place in logic, habits and traditions of Belgrade and the Zemunites. The space opposite Calemegdan on the other coast of Sava was not Zemun. The fact that the Germans called it for the needs of their administration, they had no other toponym, since it was a swamp, etc. The space that didn't have its name and its nearer definition doesn't necessarily need us to commit, maybe it could have been called, but that camp wasn't in Zemun, nor is it Zemun now, let alone when Zemun was much smaller. So I think the name "Old Fair" Memorial Center, because it's two camps, don't lose sight of it, we have two camps in the same place. The need for one camp unfortunately ceased to exist after a year because of the tragic consequences of Nazi orgy when it comes to the Holocaust, but another tragic need arose because of the Ustasha orgy in the territory of so-called area. independent countries of Croatia and then are in the reception camp, so-called The reception camp of Zemun brought people from Potkozor, Bania, and the site of the Serbian people's greatest disaster to experience their tragic outcomes here. The overall name "Old Fair" keeps a culture of memories and memories of two events and two historical moments covered by the same horror, same historical criminal motives, but according to its internal content, there are certain differences. That is why the structure of this law is so designed, i.e. the bill that through two museums it is very pedantic because of international co-operation and for the funds and for the internal organisation and for the programme councils the memories of these two catastrophic images are kept in a decent and dignified manner. I do not completely disprove the logic that comes from your views that it could, it would not be prohibited, it would not be ideological or political violence, call it in German translation, but then, if we were to be pedantic, we should call that in German, or in Serbian translation, the accepted camp Zemun in phase two, or the Jewish camp Zemun in phase 1, but one concept that includes these two tragic phenomena, which is related to tradition and Belgrade in the name, which is embedded in our memory culture, I do not think there is any, as I would say, any violence against historical facts, over the circumstances, over what is the meaning of all of this, is the care of a memory culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71878	Thank you. I'll take away all the time the minister has. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71879	Thank you very much. There is no reason for me to repeat these facts again and I will not repeat them in the context of all the other members that come practically from the first proposal of Amendment 1. It is a matter of proposing and these congregations to adopt or not to adopt. It was mine to suggest, as I did when the War Memorial Act was adopted when you had no understanding of the concept of concentration camps, given that I was employed at the Belgrade University at first specialization, because of these historical facts of an extremely great insult by my professor, an expert at the SGG in Warsaw when I told him I was going to Krakow – and what you would do to my colleague, to visit Austvic, he told me – it was a shame for you. Didn't they teach you in that capitalist Yugoslavia at the time of Socialist Yugoslavia how to respect the national feelings of us Poljaks, not Auschwitz but Osvencin? Therefore, I agree that no German name should be applied, but it is necessary to apply the location that was in the name of these camps, both camps. It is not true that there were no Serbs from Serbia's territory. Ask historians who have processed this within the Master's thesis, ask the Institute of Contemporary History, ask the Institute of War Memorials etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71880	The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71881	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, you kind of sort of, human beings say, you kill yourself by explaining, looking for logic in the exhibits and the amendment promoter and those who have come forward for the word on that amendment. It is nice of you and it is good that you, as a representative of the executive authority, act in parliament and try to clarify each and every one of you from the opposition the intention of this law and all that is in it. But our people said a long time ago, it doesn't matter what they tell you, but who tells you. You noticed that among the anti-fascism fighters, MPs of the opposition stand out today, but it doesn't matter what they say, but who they are. You wonder – how? I'll explain. At one point, they said that even in some way, the state of Serbia and Serbs may be associated with fascism and all that was happening at the site of the Old Fair during World War II. No one in any way can connect the state of Serbia with fascism to possibly their political leaders. Here's how. What is different than fascism, I wonder, rather than when the political leader of the parliamentary group to which these distinguished gentlemen of Serbia belong compares with clean water, and all those who pass through it calls the matter where the clean water is soiled. Isn't that by itself the ideology closest to fascistism? What else is there to fascism when you take the gallows, put them on the Terrace, and remember that the gallows of the Terrace were placed only by fascists of those forty years ago? What is it other than fascism when their political speaker, Marinika Tepic, calls the president of the Serbian state Hitler? It's okay that you're trying to explain it in a decent way primarily because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I note that these facts too have in mind that it's very important who you're talking to and what their true intentions are and what their true ideology is. As far as the law itself is concerned, you know, Minister, that we in the SNS already said in principle that we support this thing that's been done for the first time in a real way, but one thing that we've been waiting for so long and we'll certainly support it in the voting day, and that's what SNS support is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71882	The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71883	Dear People's Messenger, I certainly understand what you're saying. Of course I have a need, and I think it's okay to answer every MP of the people, the honourable MP in line with the subject on the agenda. I would just like to take this opportunity, and you have touched it, very often it is mentioned that Serbia is to a certain extent either the Serbian people or the Belgrade people, the Serbian people, in some part, co-operated with the Nazis, especially when it comes to the Jewish camp Zemun. We must once put an end to such malicious mystifications. Of course, there was the movement of Dimitri Ljotic here, and certainly, there were elements of co-operation with Nazism in this movement, but Nazism was such a phenomenon in Europe that before and before the start of World War II, there was a much greater Nazi movement in England. Here, we probably know that Oslom Mosley, an English Nazi, a black shirt, gathered a huge number of Englishmen in a very strong Nazi movement in the middle of England. I will remind you that the final defenders of the Reichstag, on the Nazi side, were counter-intuitive, not Germans, but French, members of the SS, Charlotte Manj, or Carlo the Great, and not the Germans from Alsace, France, but the French. Therefore, both England and France, that we are not talking about Spain, etc., and in many other countries of Europe, had in their social structure a faction, or phenomenon called Nazism, but it was an absolute exception to the rules. In World War II, probably with the Soviets, or Russian people, the Serbian people gave the highest number of victims in the fight against this world's evil. So many people, not only Serbia, because it was the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the area where the Serb people lived was the subject of genocide and the massacre unrecorded in the history of Balkan spaces in the fight against our people against evil Nazism, evil fascism and evil Roman Catholic monsters of that time, called the uprising. They're historical facts. Anyone who spends one, ten or fifty associates of Dimitri Ljotic in the events of World War II, marginal historical phenomena, and for then moments and for the present moment and for any moment, it is a person or a group, or a political party, or anything, evil and dangerous intents. Perhaps the adoption of this law, or debate on it, is an opportunity to mention this too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71884	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71885	Ladies and gentlemen, when we have spoken and adopted the War Memorial Act, and even now when we talk about the Law on the Old Fairment Memorial, we stress that neither one is a couple of excellent political issues, but that this is, above all, a patriotic issue and a relationship both with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry and also with the MPs on this really important issue. It is good that this is on the agenda and it is good that this bill will eventually be adopted. That's why it's not good when government MPs try to represent this as something for the first time in their lives, for the first time in the world, you know, it's just that when we've been discussing the existence of the world since 2012, there were many victims and there are many memories, whether monuments, whether cemeteries, and not this is the first memorial center. In Jasenovac there is a memorial centre, not only is it a flower, as someone just said, what the Ustasha state and its officials want to make of Jasenovac, there is partly responsible for us and Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which allows our books, to take textbooks for our children, to make history for our children in Croatia, to be printed by that Zužu, who is known as the first financier of Franjo Tudjman. There, almost finished the Cer memorial center, there's a Kragujevac memorial centre, there's a Sokolac memorial centre. I don't know which one of you was, when he went to Republika Srpska, who had the need and who unofficially went to worship at that cemetery in Sokoca and to look back on that one, unfortunately, large part of that cemetery, where Serbian individuals, families from Sokoca and the surrounding area were buried. So here's the Jadovno Memorial center, so it's good to build new memory centers, but we also have existing and we need to take care of them. And not only about the memorial centers, but about every monument, about every memorial in the broadest sense of the word. I really must, it would be a sin towards my ancestors, if I hadn't taken the opportunity here today and mentioned, let's say in my native Livno, there is a skeleton, a crypt where the bones of 1587 Serbs were buried, who were slaughtered in the most terrible torments, and thrown into the Karst pit of the Livnian region at the Firenian Mary in 1941. These bones were removed in 1991 and buried in that crypt on St. Iliu in 1991. That was the last time I was in my native Livna. The funeral was also attended by a Serbian patriarch, then Mr. Paule, and it happened again that the Ustashas had driven the Serbs out of Livn. There are no Serbs there today, and then they broke that skeleton, broke that crypt, and, of course, when the condition as calmed down as well, then we were the descendants of those Serbs who were buried, whose bones were buried in that crypt, organized themselves, and collected their own funds and restored that crypt. It is a place where it should be precisely because of its specificity, because the Serbs are not there, which is a Serbian Orthodox church, which is where young priests stay in Livno until their children go to school, because Serbian children have nothing to look for in those schools, to learn what the ideology of the constitution is. That's where the ministers might be able to spare some funds, help where the Serbs aren't, to preserve the memory of these Serbs. In that massacre in 1941, only the Radeta family slaughtered 51 men. Then only grown men were killed, and the plan was to kill themselves two days later, or slaughter women and children, but then the Chetniks and Italians came to Livno and prevented further slaughter. But, say, in the village of Golinjevo, where my late grandmother came from, 145 were killed only by her name pažin, people, and women and children and men. The youngest child was by chance a child of her brother who had not had 40 days. The oldest was some neighborhood grandpa who was 97 years old. It is unfortunately our truth and those Ustashas in this Golinjevo, when they killed all Serbs, said – now that we're done with them, let's organize to kill all dogs and cats, so that nothing living Serb there remains. And there we are also renewing our resources in Golinjevo, that Serbian cemetery and rebuilding the church that is a complete ruin, and indeed, here we are publicly calling on the ministry to separate certain funds to make these memorials there, to remember us from history. Also, what is now current and in this context, when we spoke earlier on this topic, not only since that year 2012, but much earlier, then in public life, many have tried Serbian radicals to play as some monsters who are just returning to the past, etc. Of course, that's not true, we just want the past never to be forgotten. Now it may be a political moment, not perhaps, but it is, to talk about what we're talking about today, but it is now a political moment and it seems to me that the last moment that I speak out loud about Srebrenica, that we all loudly say that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. You can see that Serbia and Serbs, wherever they are, have been raised by crows and alas. You see that Republika Srpska is in serious danger, and if all of us are not in every place to claim that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, and if you do not accept our idea to change the Criminal Code and that anyone who publicly says that Srebrenica was a genocide being punished by a prison sentence, we can agree on how many, our proposal has been 20 years, then we as Serbs will have serious problems. Serious problems will be the descendants of all current Serbs and unborn Serbian children, and we must most seriously oppose and call on you from the authorities to join this action. Our president runs an action through Serbia with party members, but not only party members, thank God, many people who are not Serbian radicals are coming, holding promotions, promoting their book "There was no genocide in Srebrenica", where on more than 3,300 pages he proved unequivocally and irrefutable that it was a crime in Srebrenica, that it was a terrible crime, but that genocide was not. We must defend ourselves against this lie to remain throughout history recorded as a genocide nation. We're not that, and we all know that we're not. The Serbs are the free people. Unfortunately, the freaks do, but because of these freaks, the whole of Serbia can't stay through history recorded in such a black context. Here, we've got a promotion in Kruševec today. Today, the president of the SRS in Kruševec is at 6:00, in the White Hall of the Cultural Centre, in Toplika No. 2, and we really invite all Kruševljanes to come and hear the truth about Srebrenica. These are not our pre-election gatherings, yet the elections have not yet been called, but most sincerely we want to get into the ear of every man the syntagma -- there was no genocide in Srebrenica. To outvote Natasha Kandic, Antonel Rih, Chanka, Chad and others who repeat that in Srebrenica there was genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71886	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71887	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take the opportunity to answer to my colleague Radetti. I was very often in Sokoca, in the '90s, I was a couple of years ago and I saw what you were talking about. It's really something that's here, and now I'm creeping myself out when I think of it. Many units were buried there who died in the struggle to preserve Republika Srpska and fight for the Serb people, but there were also three, four male members of the family who died. Guys, that's something that's outrageous. That's what a man can only understand when he sees it. I support a lot of what my colleague Radeta said and especially, and I've always struggled to bring in order publishing about textbooks in our schools. It's not just the job of the Ministry of Education, it's supposed to be taken over by the Ministry of Culture, because culture has mirrored a country. And we can't let someone in the mirror distort our character and give us some information that has nothing to do with the brain or the truth. We kind of, and I just said it, kind of lightly, don't worry, we miss everything, it doesn't matter, let's, let's go. It is not normal in Serbia to earn 80m euros annually on textbooks from some companies that are from Croatia or I don't know where. That's where we have to be unique and fight it. Now, I've never doubted the patriotism of fellow Radete and the SRS. You've been proven patriots, the party's been on the patriot line ever since. But there's nothing you need to change, and we need to change, not attack personality, but attack attitudes. No, I know that the campaign is already under way, even though the election isn't scheduled, now, because of the better placement in these elections, we're going to tell each other a lot of things and what's not true and what we shouldn't say. I'm against it. Let's attack someone's attitudes, what's done, how it's done, not attack personalities. Here in this assembly, which I do not know why many call parliament, it is very often seen that both sides are attacking a person and that much is said. Let us try to be as unique on these important goals, which are important to Serbia, as we all see what is happening in the Republic of Serbia, what is happening in Montenegro, what was happening down there and in Macedonia, in Kosovo, so let us be wise and smart, to resist those who wish us evil, not to be members of the Serb people and Serbs who will fight their people. I think we'll be wise enough to understand that and to move into the future with wisdom and wisdom in the interests of the Serbs and the sprawl people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71888	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71889	I don't really know what this remark was about, that we shouldn't attack anyone personally in this kind of debate. We from the Serbian radicals did not attack anyone personally, at least we do not attack anyone who advocates the adoption of this law and who is in favour of restoring and forming a memorial in any place where the Serbs have or where Serbs have ever lived. But we can't get around the main promoters in Serbia, lying about genocide happening in Srebrenica, and I don't believe that fellow Stojmirovic was defending them. So, the main promoters of these lies are Marinika Tepic, Nenad Canak, Ceda Jovanovic, Natasa Kandic, Antonela Riha, the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, those organised by the Mirdita festival, the Cyprus festival in the middle of Belgrade. Take a look at what the subject says on the subject, she's a freak from journalists in the list "Today". See also in that list "Today", on the site "Pescanika", what some lawyer, Mihajlo Pavlovic, who is a member of the Bar Association and today, is known for representing those who have stood up in Belgrade courts and courts in Serbia, stood up and wanted to get rid of the state of Serbia in every way. This man, every single one of his own texts, that lawyer, ends every single one of his texts with his claim that there was a genocide in Srebrenica. That's our problem, that's the problem in general that we, or at this point you, are the authorities, which you later remember to solve a problem, and often the ex post mind can't be very useful. That is why we must all say in every place that there was no genocide in Srebrenica and say that the biggest scum and scum are those who claim to be and that it is Ceda, Canak, Kandic, Riha, Mihajlo Pavlovic and all similar to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71890	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right on line, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71891	I think I was well understood by my colleague, Radeta, and it was never my idea, nor my desire to support those she listed. I am one of those MPs who wore your badge "There was no genocide here in Srebrenica" and "Kosovo is forever Serbia" T-shirt, and I am not ashamed of it and I always defend that position and I claim that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. But what bothers me, colleague Radeta? Now you've said everything well, but you've had one too many words for me. You called a reporter a woman a freak. That's what I'm saying we should avoid, because you're conflicting with their position where they say it was genocide. Both us and you and all the honest people patriots fight it. Professor Seselj, you say there's a book promotion tonight. It would've been nice if he'd given us all that book here, but hopefully, there's time, that's what's gonna happen. It is normal for future generations to have documents and written and recorded, to see that there really was no genocide there. Nothing will be your argument or my stronger if we call someone a donkey, if we call him a monster, a freak, etc. So I'm saying, don't attack a person, just their attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71892	Thank you, Professor. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71893	What you call a person is a caraconjules, it's scum, it's the lowest human species, it's Serbs just by birth by accident. Comrade Stojmirovic, we all witness when one of these attacks the president of your party, or the President of the Republic, then from your ranks we hear all of these and even worse expressions. We never said it wasn't good, nor did we comment. You know what it's called-- a saint and a troupe. Can't this Chongradin, Jerkov, Tepic etc., can't have any special treatment. What does that mean we're attacking a woman? I don't understand. She is not a woman, she is a journalist who has been paid by the West to write all the worst about the state of Serbia, to write all the worst about the Serbian people. You can't say a single nice word about her. It's a nice word for her that she's a caraconjoule. I can't remember worse right now. It's a nice word for her to be scum, to be a human scum. And not only for her, therefore, for all who I have listed and for all who are trying to impose the thee on the entire Serbian people, not only now we live, but also for our ancestors and those who will only be born. We agree on that, anyway, but just don't get that hypocrisy, I don't expect you, colleague Stojmirovic, don't defend indefensible. Once your colleagues say the same thing about what's on N1, today, etc., then intervene in their case, and we never will, because we think that everyone should be told exactly what they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71894	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71895	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, at this time, when it comes to this amendment, I would first of all like to thank the Ministry of Culture, or Mr. Minister himself, who, together with his associates, has shown an understanding of this one initiative, which I thought was justified from the population of what was happening in the location known to us in the jargon as the Topovese shed, which was in Belgrade, and what was happening in the first period of functioning of the camp at the "Old Fair". Namely, the Jewish passing camp Belgrade - Topovske vasa, precisely named in the law, was the first camp established in Belgrade from August 1941 until the end of that year, in fact, it had a function, as the Germans then classified it as an extermination camp. Unfortunately, in the practice of Nazi Germany and the regimes that such activities and such pogroms, unfortunately, there were extermination camps and concentration camps where prisoners were slave labor, but until death. So there wasn't, there was almost no chance of survival at all. These first extermination camps, known in Poland are Auschwitz, Belzec, Warsaw, Treblinka and others, so were Jasenovac, Jadovno, Stara Gradiška and such treatment in the future, both in our and world history, in every respect they should get, but what is true, that is, in the Topovo sheds too, that function was unfortunately achieved and present. This later also happened as an extermination camp in the Jewish passing camp of Belgrade, and that is why I felt simply this amendment that these two camps in fact in the treatment of this law should have equal treatment, be linked to each other in the future study, because as a member of the law says – the Old Fairment Memorial Centre should be established as an institution of culture in the interest of providing organisational human and material assumptions for performing the work in the field of music and related educational and scientific research activities, with the aim of caring for the victims of these territories, these areas, these centres and these places in Belgrade. In this sense, I felt that this connection of one location and another was needed in a unique location, because it provides equal study and protection of what was happening at the first location, or what was happening at another location. In that sense, I believe that the whole of the law and the whole purpose is fully achieved. In any case, I would like to point out once again that this is one big decision and a historic approach shown by the Ministry of Culture, the President of the State, the government as a whole and all the working teams involved in the preparation of the draft, i.e. the bill, in fact finally confirms that Serbia is not ashamed of its past, but has been able to forget the victims of its people. In that sense, returning to this way shows finally our ultimate responsibility. This responsible approach should be completed. I think we should write down every name in the next period, as the Jews in Jad Yours said he would be active in the sense of finding victims until finally, the last name of the one who was killed will be recorded in that place. Of course, this isn't the only good decision this ministry has made. I will confirm and repeat that co-operation with the ministry in this term has shown a broad understanding and flexibility in resolving many issues that we have simply remained silent in the long-term, irresponsible and have not brought them to an end. In that sense, and the continuity of solving such other issues, the adoption of laws that we had here in the Assembly, as well as with this law today, in fact shows a single integrity, a comprehensive national responsibility and a high-level approach to issues that are being addressed. In this regard, they lay the foundations for what will be a strategy for cultural development in the coming period. In any case, I believe that this is a big job, but that our relationship with the victims must not be done with this and that in fact everything that has been happening in the territory of Yugoslavia in the last 90's wars must also be subject to extensive, responsible and comprehensive research in every respect. Anywhere and anywhere, whoever committed insubordination, whoever committed the killing must be appointed, but at the same time the victims. In fact, we will show whether the Serbian people were genocide in the events of the 1990s, how many people died in this place, where both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija. And all the work done by individual centres to investigate the victims, the places where people are killed, I think it should be united in one historical study, historical memory, and memory that will be set up in the future. In this way we will defend our name, defend our anti-fascist struggle, defend our monuments, but at the same time defend our future and the future of this people, in terms of its historical protection and values. In that sense, I believe that both this shift and the amendment that I have submitted in this Article 2 of this Law is something that in any case ensures the integrity of the study of those events that took place in this space during the first period of 1941 and early 1942. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71896	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71897	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, I want to take this opportunity to thank you on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and Information for a very important amendment that has been accepted. The quality of this amendment of yours raises the accuracy of both the language and the meaningful expression of what was meant to be said in principle in the drafting of such a law. Now, this is one, as I would say, a small triumph of a system in which MPs make amendments to the proposals made by the ministries or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is indeed a very good improvement, and I think that this amendment has made the law even more precise, even more pedantic in the cultural and historical sense and in terms of what it is, its imaginary cultural and political and historical mission and thank you for your commitment to making such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71898	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71899	Let me get a hold of myself. So, once again, I especially thank the Minister for this public commendation. Of course, both me and the ruling coalition, the SPS, confirms that, in fact, the consistent reading and study of laws in front of the MPs and their analysis, in terms of its quality improvement, can in any case contribute to its improvement. And in that sense, it was also a pleasure in this previous four-year term, in every respect of co-operation that existed with the Ministry, if it was with sincere initiatives, I think it's also know-how, with understanding explained and accepted, it could get this kind of epilogue. Once again, thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71900	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's MPs, hastened me by the minister in praise of Mrs Dragas's amendments, but I would also like to have the need to commend, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Information, this commitment and precision shown when this amendment and other amendments are being tabled by Mrs Dragas, and of course to commend the Ministry which recognised the quality and true definition. This is the best answer to those who are trying to change the name of the memorial, to give a different meaning to the subject itself, to read what Mrs. Dragas explained in her amendment, and then everything will be clear. It is especially important that "Top Forests" are placed here in a roof organization, "Top Forests" are an attractive space on AutoCommand. Unfortunately, one part is now owned by Miroslav Miskovic, and I hope by this law and approach we protect this memorial and this place, and I hope that not even one lover of material goods such as Mr. Miskovic will allow himself to build a mall or a hotel on dead souls on over 4,000 injured Jews and Roma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71902	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71903	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbs who suffered in World War II with 15% of the population need attention to remember those who dragged us into that war. Let's say, the Englishman. They say, there's a saying - when two fish fight at the bottom of the sea, it says, there must be an Englishman or a British man behind a stone. They're skilled at sacrificing others for their own interests. Let's see, in the movies we watch this fierce anti-fascism, anti-Nazim, the fight of the English, the British, the Americans against the Germans. Is that so? Just over two years since the 200,000 pounds gave General Simovic the opportunity to slowly lead us into bloodshed on March 27th, in the disappearance of 1,200,000 Serbs, the English played a match in Berlin in May 1938. This and the German team, where the English two years before the sacrifice of Serbs saluted Hitler, all of them. Before the very game in the locker room, an English diplomat entered and ordered the footballers of England to salute Hitler, regardless of what he didn't even come to the stadium, they were some high-ranking Nazi party officials. Here are those photos. Let's remember our English friends who wanted to declare us genocide, remember that in 1938 they were saluting Hitler in front of 110.000 Nazis in Berlin. Well, let's remember, that our viewers also remember and think hard before we start getting hot heads eventually, God forbid, in some other conflict, not to be too emotional. Let our heart be warm and our head be cold. Let's remember these Brits, that in 1938 it was after Austria's accession, that some of the football players from Austria, even an Englishman who scored a goal, played in the German team. So the extended Nazis played for Germany, and the important thing is that the English tolerated Austria's accession, it's also important that they were offered why they were doing it, so they were kind of eskicipated by FIFA. They were offered the place of Austria at the World Cup, which was deleted because it was attached to Germany. Now, so much for hypocritical Englishmen, some of whom think they were some allies and friends of ours, and we're not talking about Broza's orders being bombed cities in 1944 ten times, from Nis to Alibunari, Podgorica, Belgrade several times, or Easter, or even at funerals, there's nothing they haven't done to us. That's why I don't know who hated us anymore, whether it was the Germans or our allies. With that in mind, if England didn't defend itself, this is Queen Elizabeth, here later on, and Prince Edward VIII, here and her mother, and look at the wonders of the 30s in the castle, it seems to me in Scotland, hailing the Nazi greetings, probably sending a kiss to Adolf Hitler. Therefore, Serbian brothers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, think carefully about these voluntary donors of Serbian blood and know that while the second world war suffered the most Russian and Serbian populations with the Jewish population, the Serb suffered 15%, Yugoslavia 10%, and in those Yugoslavs we Serbs took the highest participation, the Croats suffered 70,000 and the Serbs died 1,200,000. To learn some lessons well from the past and to say again what I said last time, to think well that we have fought many times for the great, many times we have fought for other people's interests, many times we have fought for others, it is time for us to live only for ourselves and for our people in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71904	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71905	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for a little while, the English aren't our theme of luck about this law today, but a little inspired, well, a little historical reference one that's not bad to say. Some of the things you've mentioned to the People's Parliament may not be surprising. I don't know how much our public knows, it's an interesting historical fact, I stress the fact that the English dynasty is, in fact, a German dynasty and this Saxe-Coburg dynasty and that they changed their name to Windsor in 1917 during World War I. I'm not saying it's only good or bad in itself, but I'm just pointing to an interesting historical fact that can possibly provide some small additions in explaining the understanding of historical flows and circumstances. In this regard, I also mentioned a colorful historical figure from England from which this match was played in Berlin, which is the notorious Oswald Mosley and I say this Nazi movement in Germany, which is counter-intuitive for our knowledge and learning today, was very, very present in the territory of the United Kingdom. Therefore, all of them, individuals or parts of society, who willfully or wickedly sometimes respect Serbia for things that cannot be respected, should at times look in their own historical mirror and comment on or understand the image they may be able to see in that mirror. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71906	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Marijan Rističević, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said this not with the intention that I brought out, not with the intention of sharpening relations with the English, or putting them historically in the place that belongs to them, because of the other Serbs. They often because of a handful of Ljotics, because of a few lunatics and freaks who during World War II did something that I would be ashamed of wanting to portray Serbia as some kind of a Nazi ally, and it was because of them that I brought this up. Yes, the English dynasty was close to blood and to the Germans, but there's something else in these World War II movies that are dominated by American movies. Most of them are big nazim fighters for me a minor resistance movement in France, which even led by footballer Ivica Bek. One of those who led, a Serb, a participant in Mundial in Montevide in 1930, and he participated in the Resistance movement. Mostly movies about anti-Naziism and the fight against Hitler are American, English, French, they're the main fighters, etc. And those who died most now risk being declared genocide. Markings in Poland, etc. All these wars and conflicts, it seems to me that the most widely seen guests in some countries are Germans as conquerors, but as in Serbia, who were also Russians who suffered the greatest casualties, and Poland last year was the best example when it was marked "Pomor" in Poland, "Pogrom", the Poles did not invite the Russians and Serbs who were the biggest victims. The English suffered 0.08%, the Serbs 15%, the Yugoslav 10%. Do you know how many Americans were killed, these leading victims, fighters, etc. 0.2%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71908	Thank you. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71909	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed present, the rise in the memory of the mark is very important for throwing another beam of light on the phenomenon of evil and crime, which I think our society, especially the academic community, especially the intellectual elite, owes to the entire community, more correctness, more science, more truthfulness in that direction. In Greek mythology, as you know, there were two brothers, Prometheus and Epimetas. Prometheus had his face straight ahead, and Epimetas had his face facing back. So we are both as a community and as a state and as a nation and as a culture, in fact, all other communities are able to choose between these two orientations. To turn to the history of the past with all that is good, bad, hard, bitter or sweet and to become a hostage and the past, or to turn to the future, and to use the direction of the past as much as we need in terms of the truth, in terms of seeing the real truth, and yet with the goal of teaching that we would use and capitalizing in the future. So it's very important to keep this in mind, and if we can take a measure that way, then all of this can turn into value. However, if we listen to all the votes on this subject, many in this House, but also many in the media, unfortunately for most of the intellectual community, we see that there is some kind of race in mourning, in the exercise of emotions. I don't think it's good for anyone. First, it doesn't make a serious impression at all, and second, it actually gives priority to the past over the future. That's why I want to point out that the orientation towards the past is destructive to every community. It does not hurt those on whom a certain nationalist patriotism is brawned. No, on the contrary, the fire is like that, it burns those around, but in the end it destroys and burns the oven itself, which it hostes. On the other hand, there's something else that can be noticed, that here in our space, unfortunately, we usually have two approaches, or two standards, when it comes to victims, when it comes to crime. We can't even that standard where most of us are and where we're minority. So one scale, one cantar, where most of us are, where we're stronger. In one way, we will define both the crimes and the criminals, and the victims, and access to that crime, and the definition and the crimes, and the consequences, and the culprits, and everything else. And where we are a minority, where we are threatened, then most often another principle applies. One more thing, culturally civilized, you can't be both strength and sacrifice. You can't be both force and sacrifice. Choose whether you want to be a victim or a force. If you want to be a force, then you must have the strength to overcome the wounds of the past, to defeat them, to valorize them in a way that is scientific, true, as much as possible in relative human power. But you can't be both force and sacrifice. The victim causes pity. If the victim's phenomenon is too potent then he's playing on a pity card, but then you're not power anymore, you're not a factor, you're not someone who can run certain local or certain regional processes. He believes that these three remarks, these three suggestions are very important to bear in mind because we're going to raise the mention of the markings, this will pass, the elections will pass, our mandates, the governments, the authorities, but the responsibility for the word should be greater. These words go into the air. Words form consciousness, form a future, they go towards both our hearts and our citizens and towards the sky, they circulate. The words are the foundation of culture and therefore it is more important to me to read the words and bear responsibility for it than to produce numerous monuments or other monumental buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71910	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71911	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad that under the influence of the Jewish community they came to this proposal for a law on the memorial center. I am sorry that our country has not done so before at the request of a number of organisations, including representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences, even during this regime. You can check that on the visiting agenda with the President of the Republic in the previous term. I am sorry that I came across a conviction here that refers as a criticism of those opponents of the ruling majority who did not remain in the assembly. I am sorry that I came across a conviction in this assembly when I entered a picture of "Blue Tomb", and I am sorry that I came across a suspicion when I brought Gideon's book "Jasenovac – Auschwitz in the Balkans" with a personal commitment of gratitude signed by him. I am sorry that he told me the criticisms were directed by those who were with me in the Russian dummies with their hands in their pockets, while I brought three historical images and presented the first vice president, or the first deputy president of the Russian Duma, the descendant of General Zdanov. I am sorry that there is no understanding except by the minister who argued explained one and the other proposal, respecting historical facts. I don't want any more part of this debate. I'm leaving this session. I'll come to the vote. I remain with my amendments, and I would ask Mr. Minister to think carefully about some amendments, not related to the title and all those members that come from that title, or a proposal for a change of title, such as putting an employee on the supervisory board because they can't monitor it on their own. I see that, too, it's been refused. And, as is the fact that there are no representatives of Serbian institutions on the board of directors, supervisory boards and programme councils, excluding the resolution ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71912	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71913	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Zemun is a city. On the periphery of that city, NDH camp was on the territory of the Old Fair. It would be a sin against all the Earthlings, who once lived either now live or sympathise the Earth as a lovable city. I was born in Zemun, and I would not like to be born because the only place in Srem was in Zemun at that moment, and I would not be pleased to have the Old Fair camp, as it is called, called the Zemun camp. I wasn't born in a camp or in a former camp. I was born in Zemun. And on the periphery of Zemun, with the permission of NDH, the Germans liquidated in a harsh manner from 6,500 to 7,000 Jews and 12,000 Serbs. My parents come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I don't know how they got into that camp, Foca, Gorazde area, parts of old Herzegovina, so I don't know which roads they've even found and ended up in the Old Fair camp. Something was said here that hit me. I'm in high school because of the family I grew up in and in the army, all the time I was loyal to the state, but I didn't really believe in Podkin's villages. They tried to teach us that the Serbian army, which was done by the KP, that the Serbian army fought hegemonistic wars from 1914 to 1918, tell me that I was wrong to say that there were no such lessons, that it was waged by hegemonistic wars and that it enslaved all our other peoples and peoples. That's how they tried to teach us at school. They couldn't teach me that. There are those members of the KP who were Tito's youngest councilmen who accepted this type of ideology and then, under age, say – but I wanted to enter a picture of "Blue Tombs". The "Blue Tomb" belongs to the Serbian people. It is a memory that Serbia has freed others, while others have raised hands on Serbia and Serbs. "Blue Tomb" reminds me of that. But it also reminds me of those who today want a political and "Blue tomb" to use, despite being Tito's youngest councilmen, the party chief who taught us that Serbs with millions and 264 thousand killed Serbs from Serbia were fighting hegemonistic wars from 14th to 18th to enslave our peoples and peoples. This congregation really puts up with everything. There's that cheek sole right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71914	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am one of these laws, I see that there is a lot of emotion amongst the MPs. But the first thing I have to point out is that the law isn't written and we're not bringing it under any pressure today. There is a written law in co-operation with the world Jewish organization, as has been written a previous law on damages to victims of holocausts without legal heirs. However, in some things we must be very real and very sober, back maybe even a few decades, perhaps more, there is one desire for revisionism of history in World War II. That's what we're witnessing, and it's happening today, and it's happening over a large number of victims, just like the Holocaust itself, because some simply want to avoid their historical responsibility, not personal, but historical responsibility for what their people have done in the past. We had it, I can't call it auditism, but under the pretext of brotherhood and unity during the communist regime, all victims of Nazi crimes and their satellites aren't shown in the right light, because, well, that's what happened, the victims exist, but there's some future, so for that future we don't even need to talk about these victims. I would just like to remind you, we had the poem of Ivan Goran Kovacic "The Cave", and how long until the collapse of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia there were caves containing Serb bones, without any marks? Dozens. They're thrown in kindergartens, forgotten. What's scariest, I guess, because of this desire for a future, everyone's turned to it, and the future itself was carrying new dangers, which happened not after a century, it's barely been a little more than 45 years -- criminals have repeated the crime. Serbs were killed again, first of all, because of the diversity in religion, the diversity in the nation, because they wanted to live on their hearths, where they lived for centuries, exiled to "Blash" and "Storm," and one of the culprits is the desire of the communist regime not to talk about crimes, because crimes would quarrel the people. We see now that this ideology and attitude were not good. Crimes have been repeated, criminals are members of the same people, victims are members of the same people who died during World War II. To be also clear, the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people can point out the number of their victims, can also point out the crimes that have happened, can say that everywhere in the world, but also be aware and ask the question - is that enough? Can we in an attempt to revisionism change history, a history related to World War II, Serbia alone and lonely to prove its victims, to prove the death of its people, and thus to warn the whole world that such a thing should never happen again? I, to be honest, think it might be possible, but I think, too, it's going to be very difficult. One of the nations most injured in World War II is Jews, members of the Jewish people. And regardless of the various movements, associations, which are pro-fascist by ideology, whenever you mention Jews, in every single citizen who has little school, you create the thought of what they experienced in World War II. When we say - Old Fairground, many think it was happening back then in that occupation zone that belonged to Serbia, because only the Fair is only a few kilometers away, but it belonged to the Independent State of Croatia during World War II. The Serbian people shared the fate of members of the Jewish people during World War II. And are there two peoples who can understand each other as well as those who have suffered in World War II than are Serbs, Jews and members of the Russian people? I don't think so. One way to protect against auditism, because we are aware that it is reducing and trying to reduce through various quasi-science works the number of victims and killed in Jasenovac, the number of victims and killed by various caves in Bosnia, Croatia, Liki, Kordun, Banija, etc., not to count, is trying to reduce the number of victims. The only serious answer, or much more successful struggle to protect ourselves from auditism and to preserve memories of the victim, and to preserve memory, is to unite the nations on the matter they have suffered. That's why I was saying it, and that's why I've come across a great condemnation of members of the MPs' groups why I point out that all victims are the same and that they don't have people's belongings, because if we just take care of our victims, first of all, we won't be able to keep a memory of them and a reminder of future generations that it doesn't happen anymore, because it just happened after World War II, just a few decades. We must bring together the nations who have suffered the most to send warning to the whole world over and over again so that nothing like this can ever happen to any nation again. We have the courage to talk about our victims, not as before, during Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica and others, to be ashamed of our victims. We can speak, we can mark the places of their strategies, we can team up with the peoples who have been killed, with whom we shared fate in World War II, to preserve memories of all the innocent victims and victims of the Holocaust in one of the darkest ideology, the darkest episode since human civilization exists. Serbia has been allowed to speak, unlike the former regime that hides itself now and calls for a boycott, to avoid the responsibility and condemnation of the people for what they have done, to rob the same people, and, when it comes to the victims, to conceal themselves more and more to the revisionists of history, related to World War II and to survive as long as possible in power as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71916	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71917	Thank you. I will proceed to the speech my distinguished colleague, Arsic, spoke. I must point out that the Serbian and Jewish people have a long-standing friendship, and I must also point out that this bill has been passed with consultation and with the participation of the Union of Jewish municipalities, as well as the Council of the Roma National Minority. What I must also point out is that the Republic of Serbia, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, was just fighting the revisionism of history, in the United Nations in 2018, an exhibition that refers to all the crimes that took place in Jasenovac, and the name of the exhibition was "Jasenovac, the need not to forget". I must point out that the director of this organisation, the international organisation that happened in the UN, and where the whole world has had the opportunity to see one of the often mentioned World War II document, which is that a huge number of Serbs, including Jews, Roma and other anti-fascists, died on the territory of the Independent State of Croatia. Also, I must point out that in his study, Dr. Graif, who was otherwise a historian for the Holocaust, made a comparative analysis between “Jasenovac” and “Aussica” and cited 57 ways of severe torture by Ustasha victims in the Jasenovac concentration camp. Also, I must point out that for the first time, Israeli President Mr. Rivlin came to visit Serbia in 2018. It was received by Mr. Alexander Wolf. Also, I must point out that for the first time in the Serbian Presidency building on Andric's wedding for the memory of the Holocaust and all the victims were killed in Auschwitz, the flag with David's star turned. This, of course, echoed in Israel with all praise and with all due respect to the Republic of Serbia, which cultivates a culture of memories of all victims suffered in World War II, or victims of the Jewish people. Also, I must point out that this year too, for the anniversary of the 75th anniversary of the Holocaust, President Aleksandar Vukic was present in Israel and was received by the President of the State of Israel, Mr. Rivlin. Of course, this law, first of all, has meaning in the aspect of preserving a culture of memories of all the victims who were killed at the Old Fair. It is our moral obligation not to forget it, but it is our responsibility to teach the present and future generations this. One of the ways of working is the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre is also educational and educational, but also scientific and research work, so that evil never repeats itself again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71918	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71919	Thank you, dear Vice President Arsic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would like only to rely on what my colleagues said, Veroljub Arsic and Milanka Jevtović Vukojić, giving a real quality retrospective of what our country is, and especially led by our leader, Aleksandr Vukic, did in terms of relations with the Jewish community here in Serbia, but also concrete steps and moves that led to our promotion of what are the main values of our country and our people, which is freedom, it is definitely antifascism and it is a constant, continuous and tireless fight against anti-Semitism and, as my colleague Veroljub Arsic well noted and said, fight against so-called. Modern auditism and outlines of phenomena somewhere, unfortunately, and in our neighborhood and the closer environment, we have phenomena, explicit, fascism. This is particularly represented in the Republic of Croatia, and it is very strange that some even political parties, political leaders represent such a species, cannot say absolutely, because these are not values, but political attitudes and ideology, but without some excessively large and strong condemnation of the EU, the European Commission and its institutions. The struggle of the Serb people and the struggle of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to anti-fascist values and values concerning the fight against anti-Semitism, eventually the fight against BDS, so-called "BDS". the modern and new movement that has emerged in the world, especially in some Western European countries, which is that these countries, because of the conflict that exists in the Middle East between Israel and some other countries and entities, are calling for the boycott of goods produced in Israel, that even, it was really one precedent, at the level of these anti-civilization fees that are so-called. Kosovo's interim institutions introduced, when it comes to goods and services from central Serbia, even a major tourist operator, the RBNB is called, has introduced boycotting and the inability to reserve apartments and hotel accommodation that the state of Israel allegedly has usurped and occupied. So we, within our policy and foreign policy, act completely neutrally, but we are clearly and strongly condemning every fascist, fascist, every anti-Semitist behavior, but also every anti-Jewish and, of course, anti-Israel behavior. What I would like to point out and what represents a big, big deal, when it comes to the geopoliticals of our country and the future positioning of the Republic of Serbia on an international basis, this is a very significant announcement of the presence of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic at the Grand Conference of the US-Israeli Committee on Public Affairs. I want because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of our people, but also because of all the MPs sitting here in the hall to say that this is one of the most significant foreign-political activities of our country and the president of our country, perhaps in the past few years. The President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vucic, will speak to 20,000 people in Washington and will speak side by side and as an equal leader, possibly, on March 2nd with the U.S. Vice President, with the most influential senators in America, the most influential politicians from Israel and across Europe. It is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a place occupied by Aleksandar Vukic in the current, current consolidation of relations at the foreign-political level. It is a reflection of how Serbia is respected and how Serbia has been respected in the past few years at international and international level, and it is very important for us, and we should promote this here in this room, whether we belong to the majority or are colleagues from opposition parties, because President Aleksandr Vukic has been honored to speak in front of 18,000 people and people who may be the most powerful and powerful and the greatest influence on global politics. Each of its appearances, every action and every connection to the World Jewish Congress, the European Jewish Congress, the AIPAC, where Aleksandar Vukic will address March 2nd, where he will be at the main stage, where he will address next to the world's greatest leaders, will contribute to the Republic of Serbia. It is crucial to address our political problems and issues, for the further future of our country, for the further continuation of the economic reforms that Vukic has carried out in the past six years, and you see for yourself how many successes we have had in this domain, but for how many successes we can have on both military and political and on any other plan if we continue, if we support this kind of policy, so that, in addition to this and to the importance of the law, we will all, together with one clear consensus, and I have heard that my distinguished colleagues from the SRS have said that they will vote for this bill when it comes to voting on the agenda, to show primarily that we have an identical, why we do not, is not a shame to say, attitude when it comes to red lines on our national interests, but also to a clear determination of our country when it comes to our future, our national interests, but also to those forces and those people who are trying to impose on us and never to put our Serbian peoples on us, which are never to be the people who are not what we are left. We want to send a message to the clear and domestic and international public, those people who promote these ideas, the fascists, there are a few of them, there are two in parliament, they don't even come here, except they came here before New Year's Eve to make an incident. They're lucky we didn't push them head-to-head out, they deserve it because of their ideology and because they want to destroy the government in the 21st century in such a way that they can get the money and reach the budget and reverse the wheel of history. It won't work. Serbia will continue to act like this. Our authority at the head of Alexander Vukic will strive to win and give hand to everyone who wants to, to talk in the way we talk today, to our colleagues who don't think, of course, about many issues of state like us, but what we share as a common value, I mean, that's face and that's our common concern for our country and for our future. This concern that we inherit and cultivate anti-fascist values, the fight against anti-Semitism, good relations, as always, with the Jewish community, to cultivate and inherit a culture of memories, to invest and invest in scientific institutes, to organisations that will deal with these issues, is Serbia's well-being, and we will continue to advocate and fully support this kind of initiative, because our people is one of the few, and it should not be a shame to say, one of the few, unfortunately, people who did not persecute Jews during World War II, let alone today. Look, you do, the minister said it nicely, gave great, vivid examples of it, in some Western so-called. You have examples of Jewish persecution today, of democracy and of developed countries, of shooting at synagogues. And let me remind you, my colleagues may have forgotten that there is a third-largest synagogue in the world in Subotica, and I want to say, maybe that's my subjective opinion, as someone from here, who is a member of this Serbian people, the most beautiful synagogue in the world, it's a sabbatical synagogue. It is also renovated, it has been restored, of course, to our president's initiative and to President Vukic's vacuum, and of course, I must also mention the role of Prime Minister Hungary, Mr Orban and all those who have had that good will and supported that idea. It is indeed a beautiful, magnificent building, and when Jews around the world hear and see what we have done and how we have done on this and on this plan, that is what it actually defines and adorns what Serbia is doing in the past few years. It works to endure, but to better promote and present what it has always been an open country, a country that prides itself on having a lot of diversity, which has a lot of people and a lot of nations, and is particularly proud of how we live through all of our history. This is one nice thing, a good thing for Serbia, a good thing for the region, a good thing for all of Europe. We show this same Europe and the world today what it means to be an open country. Today when you shoot Jews in some synagogues in Western countries, when they may not be able to walk along the street freely in some neighborhoods in Germany or in some other countries, here, of course, there is, we are not making any difference. We love those people. They grew up with us here on Dorcolo, on Vjerar. It's part of our people. No one's going to tell you, whoever's from Belgrade, this guy's a Jew or anything. We are proud of it, my colleague Arsic was talking about what we have passed this law that is very important, about the return of property to the heirs of the Holocaust victims. We are proud of what we have returned and that the Jews can go and attend the service in the synagogue in Marshall Birjos, in the synagogue on King Peter's Street, to gather there, that we can celebrate Hanukkah together, that we can work together, work together and live together as we have always done, but to mention to the whole world and the public that we have never and absolutely never been a people who ever thought to raise hands on Jews. That's why we're doing this today. The minister said nicely in his speech – a lot of Jews saved our people. And today some of these people are alive, coming to Serbia. I'll only mention Mr. Zhamboki, who took his last name from the man who saved him. Zhamboki is usually Dorcolac, and otherwise one of the richest people in Israel today, one of the biggest businessmen there. I think he's over 80 years old, but he's never forgotten his Serbia, never forgotten the Serbs, never forgot the citizens of Belgrade and Zrenjanin, where that man sent him and saved him and saved him. I think that's how it was. So today, we support it, and again we set an example, and we will always give such examples as one serious and free people, but we will promote it much more than we did before, when we were only 10 years ago, I guess we were afraid to say who we are, what we are, to point out our flag. Well, here, you see, and today, unfortunately, it's our destiny. We're talking about Israel. There are, of course, even worse than we are, when it comes to political heated disputes, and when it comes to their democratic capacity and quarrels and conflicts between political parties. But when it comes to Israel's national interest, there's no quarrel, there's the same line. It can only be a dispute over who advocates greater interest and greater opportunity for Israel in this time of life. Unfortunately, you still have a so-called day here today. They call themselves other Serbs, they say to us that we are uneducated, that we are toothless, that we know nothing, that we are bad because we want to place the mast and put the largest flag here in Belgrade that can be seen from the plane, from some other locations. They say it's a waste of money, they say it's a shame. No, it is not a patriot's shame and we will continue to cultivate a cult of flags and cults of growing national interests and protecting our people not only here in Serbia, but everywhere he lives, not only in Republika Srpska, where about a million people live, but also where 20,000, 30,000 live, and in the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Romania, where we have one of our MPs in their parliaments and in Hungary and wherever they live and in the United States. I remind my colleagues that in a few days his Holiness Patriarch Irinaeus will visit the United States. His service has already been announced at St. Luke's Church in Washington. So, a big deal for our citizens living in America too, because today we need to be united to defend our interests in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71920	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71921	It's for the public. The Serbian Radical Party does not support this law to give the impression that everyone in this room thinks the same, nor do we want to get the impression that we support the ruling majority in any way. None of that is true. It is true that since its establishment, the SRS has been a patriotic political party and we have never stepped down. We are always and always in the National Assembly and in every other place we will support every idea, every proposal that is in the Serbian national interest, and this law certainly is. We note, which is certainly good, that Alexander Vukic has recently been increasingly returning to his original political agenda and his original political ideas and whenever he, on the basis of this, gives you a homework to discuss here something that is of Serbian national interest, we will certainly support it, even if it is anyone else. So there's no need for you to give yourself any points because we're going to vote for this law, because this law, laws like this, these ideas are the original ideas of the SRS. We repeat, it's a good thing the Wolf is coming back to them more and more often. We hope it will be even more intense and then we will be able to vote for such proposals even more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71922	The People's MP Vladimir Marinkovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71923	It's not a classic replica, it's more of an addition, or commentary, to the presentation of a colleague, Verica Radete. I agree, of course, that different opinions were, nor was it any intention to say that the political parties involved in the work of the ruling coalition think alike with members of opposition parties, especially not with the SRS, but what is essential is that we have agreed here that there are some common ideas and of course we support some common initiatives that are in the interest of our country. Of course, not because they're in party or any particular interest. I'm intrigued and the most important thing where I want to score, and she's next. It's that Alexander Vukic is doing and implementing something that was someone's idea or someone's program, and that's the main difference between what he's doing and who's criticizing him. It is essential to say when these economic and political results are involved. Yeah, he had that idea and we're talking today about building the Memorial Center. Yeah, here we go, we're going to vote, hopefully, everyone for this bill and the Wolf will make it happen. Many have talked about highways, many have wanted, many have started, but unfortunately, according to our citizens, they haven't done anything or done much, and he's made 250km of highway, he's reduced unemployment from 27% to 9.5%, he's brought it here and opened only for the last two years 150 factories, brought over 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment, established the country's macroeconomic stability, you know that, Mr. Arsic, established good public finances, good rating of our country. Everyone wants to invest here, here's the Chinese, here's the Russian Federation, here's the Americans opened the bank, the United Arab Emirates. Said - carried out by a man. It's something Americans call leadership, so leadership, and that's what separates him and separates him from maybe those who know how they should, but they don't know or have the strength, the energy and the ability to implement it, and don't get angry, because citizens care what they do and not what they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71924	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71925	As far as I know Vukic, and believe me, I know him, he'd prefer you to defend him in a way that you can explain that he respects the Constitution, that he performs a presidential function in accordance with the Constitution, and what you've been trying to do for days, really only goes in favor of those who claim that Vucic is treading the Constitution, that he holds everything in his hands, etc. Imagine you wolf built the roads. What was he driving, digging himself? What's his role? My people, don't exaggerate. We understand that you now need to make lists, coalitions, etc. That you're courting Wolf, but you're doing him a bear favor, and he himself, I'm sure, I know a man, he doesn't want to hear anything like that about himself. He would be much happier if you were all here talking for days about how Vucic respected the Constitution, how Vučić did not usurp the functions of the government, how Vucic had not usurped the function of ministers, how the National Assembly was working in accordance with parliamentary democracy, and you are just confirming what others are saying that it was not, but that he had just usurped the authorities of the Government, the responsibilities of ministers individually, the responsibilities of the National Assembly and killing yourself by explaining it, and as you want to help Vukic. Change it a little bit, he'll be more pleased to listen to you and you'll be better off, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71926	The People's MP Vladimir Marinkovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71927	I absolutely didn't say he was a man building roads, nor did I do what I said during my speech. I'm just saying that he's a man of the ideologist of this rebirth of political, economic, national, military, cultural, educational and everything else. I guess that's normal and, how can I say, when you look at some other countries that have evolved, which have developed dynamically, drastically their economy, your political system, your capacities, so I guess you remember these people. When you mention the name Ronald Reagan, think about economic reforms, whether it's the boom of the American economy, American companies, you don't know who was then the minister of business or trade or anything, no one knows. So everyone here has a job, but someone has to do their own ideas, by their vision, to define which way the country goes. I just said that and that was the most important part, and this is the second part of the state institutions that have done this over the past few years and, starting with the resolution ministries, we here in parliament that have discussed all the legal solutions and the legal framework which, of course, has been drastically and greatly improved, so I think, for the joy and benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have someone who has a vision and who knows... You should take a look and read that plan to Serbia in 2025. That's the plan. Serbia is finally considering what will happen in five, 10, 15, 20 years. He doesn't think about what's going to happen tomorrow, and that's the quality of it, and that's what separates leaders from those who run the state or any system in a way that isn't quality and is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71928	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71929	Now I understand that Vukic is an ideologist of road construction, and in the first report, his colleague said exactly – he built it, he built it, I just didn't remember how many kilometers of roads. Well, that's exactly what I'm saying. No one can be an ideologist of road construction. Ideology is something else. Ideology is what brings Wolf back more and more. Ideology is a great Serbia, which Vukic, when commenting on this film about himself, rehabilitated again, recalling his speech in Glina. However, he said he never said it was Republika Srpska, but that speech showed exactly where he said it was. Of course it is, and it's not just then. It's ideology. Building roads is something that is good and we keep saying it and it is good that this government takes care to build as many roads as possible, corridors etc. But, my people, do you know that Serbian citizens pay tolls, that Serbian citizens pay registrations for old vehicles as if they were new, that fuel excise is paid, that you took large loans, that taxes are paid, and we never, we demagogues will never tell - they're people's money. We're just talking about how to fill the budget. The people elected you, your party, the Wolf who led the party, gave the opportunity to manage these funds. That's the only right thing to say. Everything else is demagogy. You control how you operate. As far as road construction is concerned, no one is against it, but you will see in the elections and the campaign, people will ask you why their salaries and pensions are much less than that consumer basket of 37,000 dinars, the lowest salary of 30,000 dinars, and the lowest pension of 10,000 dinars. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71930	Well, that's not exactly the point. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71931	Thank you. I'm not gonna answer any more, of course, just to clarify one thing. A colleague, Verica Radeta, of course, noticed well, knowing and knowing the very good functioning of the state system, the financial system and absolutely the entire state, and mentioned the people's money. Yes, registration is paid, taxes are paid, taxes, of course, which is normal in a normal country that pleads to be developed, modern, market economy, which wants as much as possible in the country of entrepreneurs, businessmen, private initiatives, and thus to acquire and get as much employment as possible, especially in our young citizens. But I'll just go back about seven, eight years. You know it even better than I do. The key difference is how to manage these state funds. In 2012, in the summer, or autumn, we also worked rebalancing and we worked after the budget. There was no pay for the end of the year for miners in Resavica. It's just one example, and the tax on extra value, the excise was alarming, catastrophic, about sixty-sixty percent. Now the state, for several years back, has had a surplus. I want to tell our citizens exactly what it is, and I'm not talking about that kind of ideology, what it's all about. A stable Marko-economic system, stability in the country and household treatment of this very state and people's money. That's the difference, nothing else. So now we have economic growth which, I think, in the third quarter of last year, was the biggest in Europe and we have the opportunity to be this year, if everything is right and if it continues to invest this way, over 5%. (President: Bringing the end. ) We build roads, restore schools, restore kindergartens, we are socially responsible, I guess that's where we agree, we give opportunity to those who can't make money on the market. It's one serious state, I didn't want to say anything else, of course, and it's something to lie down and say, it doesn't matter if you're an opposition, say - a man is successful, he's done a good job, and let's move on, it doesn't matter we'll argue further about some other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71932	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71933	I thank the chairman. Although this was interesting, too. He said one of the previous speakers -- maybe we were scared for ten years, I wasn't afraid, I wasn't afraid to say what I was thinking 30 years ago. Thank God he's not even my uncle who carries a Karajord star with gold swords. Thank God he's not even my grandfather who died under the King's image even though he ruled Tito for 50 years. So I can say some things now. I would remind myself of one thing I didn't do this morning, when I first answered, which is interesting that the citizens of Serbia know about the Logor "Old Fair" and remind the citizens of what we're talking about right now. We all said that the Germans in that camp had also conducted Roma, but it's interesting to say, I want to say what kind of state we lived in then, since after 1945 we only listened to lies and lies about the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but here's one, we had a modern fairground for that time, damaged as I said in 1945 in a Nazi German attack on Belgrade, so it was used for that camp, but they also had Roma and Jews enforced in that camp according to the applicable laws of Germany, racial laws. Namely, in Germany, the Roma lived exclusively as cherries at the time, and the law said that Roma cherries were being conducted, and therefore not so many Roma were being carried out in that camp in Yugoslavia as much as they could because in that Yugoslavia, the king of Yugoslavia, the Roma lived in houses and settlements, and then they did not execute them in the camp, but only those they found in accordance with their law. It's just, I mean, one is a crime, but I mean, what kind of Yugoslavia the Roma lived in, and that's why I'm saying we shouldn't be dealing with the lies we've been hearing since 1945. They're still keeping us down, pulling us back. Modern Serbia is second. We must be proud of our heritage. The Jews were killed because they were Jews. The Roma were killed because they were Roma. Serbs were killed because they were Serbs and Orthodox. That was the reason, and that's why we have so many victims. We need to talk about the victims. That doesn't make us weak, as one previous MP said. That's just how much we've given for our freedom and for being able to live freely in our own country. Twenty million Russians died fighting Nazi Germany and are constantly talking about their victims. What makes Russia weak? Of course not. Of course Russia is powerful and great and that 20 million victims make it different. And our victims are something we must insist on. And the fact that President Vukic is going to America on March 2nd is, of course, commendable and, of course, we need to improve our relations with Israel, because there is the holy city of Jerusalem, the capital of Israel, as far as I'm concerned. We too have to deepen relations with them and of course the first to represent the will of the citizens of Serbia and the people of Serbia must appear on March 2nd and thank God for going to America then. I don't know if the citizens of Serbia know this, but there is a memorial park in downtown New York for the victims of the Jasenovo camp. We don't have one in Belgrade, and there's one in downtown New York. Why? Because since 1945, we have been hiding that Serbs have been killed because they are Serbs and because we have spoken that traitors are those who were not traitors and it must be stopped, because Serbia has something to be proud of and Serbia can still be an equal part of the European family and that it has in front of everyone cheeks, honors and a high forehead to stand up and say – we are Serbs, we have fought against Nazism as evil, we have fought against communism as evil, and we will always fight for freedom, our first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71934	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was inspired by Mr Marinkovic, because he mentioned my town of Zrenjanin, and I liked the topic that we had before that, before the order of the replicas, the relationship between Jews and Serbs and that victim in common who tied us up so much, so I just needed to apologize for actually saying that in this town which Mr Marinkovic mentioned was best painted, on April 27th when the Nazis entered the city. First, they changed the name Petrovgrad to Gros Bečkorek, destroyed the monument of King Peter, brought down the synagogue and hung Viktor Elek, the largest employer and the largest businessman in the city, one of the wealthiest Petrovians or Bečkorečkans, and if you will today, sent his entire family to "Top sheds". We returned the monument to King Peter, but we didn't return the name. The synagogue was not built, and on the foundations and capitals of Viktor Elek was built by one of the largest agricultural combinations in the SFRY, which unfortunately was never called Viktor Elek, but was called Servo Mihalj. This law is very important because it returns, as you well said in the title of the law – a culture of memory, because oblivion was and will remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71936	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71937	Mr. Minister came out, but I wanted to supplement this historical context and do a little digression, because when he answered the amendment, which he submitted around the name, one important detail is very important, and especially for his fellow SPS colleagues and some other MPs. So to be clear and precise, therefore, before 1942 in October 1941, by the will of the Ustasha Croatian government, so-called. The NDH and the German Nazis are part of the Srema, the Eastern Srem is attached to the so-called NDH. We Serbian radicals agree with this name, because this complex and this place is actually a place of incredible and severe suffering and of Serbs, and of Jews, and of Roma, and not of some city as it was in the proposal of the first amendment. However, what will appear as a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and I am speaking to you from the Ministry of Culture, you will not be able to build and form this new cultural good, therefore, the Old Fairment Memorial Centre to solve all problems. The problems are in property-legal relations dating back to World War II. When, for the first time since we're MPs in a lot of convocations in this assembly, these ideas were declared in the 1990s, and then they were some first commissions, it seems to me in 2005, 2006, it appeared as a problem. Now that you're comparing, to memorize something, so in that place you have to cover the whole complex, it's the Old Fair. For the people to know, that's nice, Mr. Minister, to explain, the old fair wasn't old when it was made. At that time, it was like a really typical example of the good architecture of that time, to show the world what it should look like, but now there are real property relationships that affect the housing of people where you have to ask for consent from other ministries. How are you going to solve this? Maybe some disputes are a matter of court. I think there's still a problem in the Hungarian Pavilion about that. You can't say now, I mean, it's a good intention and we support it, we've only corrected some things technically, but maybe before the entry of this bill, because the commission has been sitting five years back, so there have been various disputes, this name is Mr. Minister good. That should have been in mind. As for your presentation, I will now take advantage of the opportunity to address this amendment, from a few days ago, you are absolutely right about negating genocide against Serbs in Ustasha NDH. And you said - the time will come. So a general political consensus should be reached to punish it, that anyone who thinks he says it, and co-worker Radeta mentioned these new Ustashas who are working against Serbia, I dare say that and everyone next to us, who are only of origin, who spreads that anti-Serbian hatred or new Ustasha hysteria across Serbia, and that will increasingly work as the election day approaches. Likewise, Mr. Minister, when it was an amendment to the Criminal Code, we suggested that everyone in Serbia who says and who says, without talking about those who claim it happened, that Srebrenica was genocide, must be sanctioned and punished. We suggested 20 years in prison. We are now correcting historical mistakes. Why didn't some of your predecessors do it? Why didn't the communists do it for so many years in power? So, the time has come to mark one place of the great loss of Serbs, Jews and Roma in an adequate way. It's not just a historic step in the end, it's also a civilizational and our national responsibility to do it. It is also our national responsibility and responsibility for all who are and after us in these assembly benches, at certain political functions to prevent any possibility because of future generations that anyone has ever claimed such a thing, because there has been no genocide in Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71938	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71939	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, therefore, you are right about, at least in my opinion, these legal questions regarding expropriation, etc. We are in our own time, I was a member of a commission formed by the city of Belgrade in its own time when it comes to the memorial complex. I was 2014, 2015, etc. And there were really problems about these property legal relations. In the long run of time, the decade of time there has been a specific, freely able to say some unfortunate legal situations to a legal galamitia which, of course, had the effect of having a difficult solution to certain things. At that time, what was successfully completed, I'm now talking about a central tower at the Old Fair, that space was assigned by some different criteria to artists for art studios, etc. And then, with reasonable compensation, mostly artists got some other studio space and it was solved or solved in an adequate way. In the meantime, some face settler has surfaced again. Dalke, the situation with this relationship is complicated, but here it is emphasized that a plan act will be adopted in accordance with this law and we do not have any choice but to assume that it will go... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Ali will slow down. ) It can slow down, but you know the thing is so much, it may not be this opportunity and place to go into more detail, so at least I'm going into more detailed explanations of these legal complications that are woven from a series of amazing events and circumstances, inactions, settlements, opening of different restaurants, wonders and contents of different types. But that's how it is, and we have to cut that proud knot, or cut and cut, and I believe in a way that will be effective. Now, it remains to be seen, the adoption of this law will create reasonable preconditions, to go in a decisive way, and remains to be seen, and there will be a need for the participation of different institutions responsible for various property legal affairs etc. You know very well, since in this matter you are professional, as in some, but thinks that the adoption of the law creates good assumptions for solutions, but that it will not be simple, it will not. But given the importance of this law, it is expected that all competent, civil service will act securely and in accordance with the law and, of course, enriched by one new enthusiasm, and with regard to the objectives and meaning of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71940	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71941	Here they are in action both in the locality and in the way it will look and what a function the Old Fair Memorial Centre will have, all of these things are numbered. But, Mr. Minister, exactly what I told you, in contrast, perhaps colleagues know it, from other such strategies in a enslaved Nazi Europe, where dedicated camps are designed to kill themselves, here is where space, as I said, was used, which was made with the best intentions of the late 30s, to be a beautiful place where people would come not only from Serbia, but from around the world. In that sense, if we're already resuscitating it, and you know someone who comes in there really needs a big pie and with the deepest senses of showing up, then we can't just come in here, and this part isn't solved here, you understand what I'm saying, in that sense it was my intervention, because it's all supposed to end at the shortest possible time, and somewhere because of that confusion, as you say, it can be controversial. Secondly, I think it was, since I didn't know that you were a member of the commission, in various committees the same important question, of course, the program advice, the board of directors that was defined here as being delegated, will decide. But still, it doesn't stay just as the genocide museum was formed, as is the case of the Kragujevac site of destruction in the Forests where it's just marked by the museum that we have, otherwise, the whole complex is one place where the largest number of Kragujevci is moving and beautiful days, and when it's not. But October 21st is the only day that such things happen there in memory of the victims. It can't stay that way here. It must also be known that there is a special hall, right, if there is to be with these facilities that exist, so that's our best intention, where these memories will be maintained, where various promotions will be held, where all the cultural events that are needed will be held, and not just remain on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71942	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71943	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would first like to express one sincere gratitude that your Ministry and you, at the head of the same ministry, have accepted amendments submitted by the MPs to the bill we are discussing today and, of course, we are doing everything in our power and in our jurisdiction to improve the same law by quality in order to achieve the full effect in practical application. What's for great respect and respect is the fact that your Ministry is already in continuity and it's not flattering, it's no subjectivity, it's reality, it's in continuity doing everything in order for what we're discussing today to rise to the highest possible level, and that our consciousness that history can't be relativated in any case, that it can't be forgotten, that historical facts must always show up as they are, regardless of whether anyone had a different approach to the analysis of these facts, had a different angle. When it comes to assessing historical facts, we must preserve them in their identity, or preserve history from distortion. In that direction, what is truly commendable is your endeavor to keep one such principle and make it a principle that we all have to adhere to consistently. What's very important to point out is something that has happened here several times. I think that there is a respected colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, quite right, noting some circumstances that are in any case a certain burden, a burden. Historical monuments, no matter from which historical stages, no matter what historical age they must always be present and seen, must be recognizable. That's how we preserve, not just history, that's how we cultivate our culture at the same time. Culture is part of our national identity, and without it, we cannot absolutely represent anywhere what is historicly ours if we cover it up and we don't exploit it in the right way. I think we share the exact same insights and opinions when it comes to any historical stage that should be marked in the way that we do it by this law, or mentioning the markings, or monuments, or otherwise. No matter what the ideological approach is, no matter whether this historical moment and this monument or this marking implies something that relates to the ideology of that time or certain structure in that time, it's important that this time be perpetuated. Why? Because we can't be ashamed of our history, and at the same time we have to be proud of our history. When these two are put into correlation, it means that we are obliged to preserve history as it is. What I want to point out as a fact, everything that my colleague Jovanovic pointed out in the future needs to be an incentive for new ideas, for new projects, for new programmes. Each historical era involves marking in the best possible way. In that sense, we must have adequate content. Now that we're doing it, when we're marking it, it's not enough to pick up a monument and say, yes, the monument stands there, we'll come, we'll look, we'll bow down to the sons of some who are their lives whether for the greatest ideals, such as the ideal of freedom. In addition to these monuments, it is necessary to create content that includes the best way to cultivate everything that the monument marks, which is why with a special piette, according to counterpart Jovanovic, with great emotions we refer to certain historical facts, historical events, people who played a historical role regardless of what status and how. So I encourage, suggest and your ministry that within the limits of financial opportunities, budgetary opportunities, with each mention, we do something extra, something that will help to strengthen everything that is related to the marking of certain events, and thank God so I can express myself, we have a lot of them, because our history is rich, it's rich and sufferings and catharsis and executions and a lot of things, but that's the wealth of our history with which we should be proud, and that's really how we do another step to make that extra content, along with everything we have, raise awareness among our people, with Serbian citizens that history is kept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71944	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the right to reply, and then Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71945	It is a possibility for a replica, but just one more thing I would like to tell you on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group under this amendment. Mr. Minister, we got the culture strategy the government accepted on your proposal, I think last week. Now it's in front of the MPs, and you said she'd be adopted soon. To be honest with you yesterday, it seems to me, distributed here to the MPs, I failed to look at the whole strategy carefully. But what will certainly be our proposal is that in the strategy of all future cultural events, because this is the portfolio that includes, in particular, the chapter, if you have done so by the 2029 period, that it may be until 2039, or already which year, for the suffering of our people, our fighters, our women and children, therefore not be strengthened in the Serbian homeland war. We will insist that it be an official name, as is the case in Republika Srpska, because there is no other way to honor these victims of our people's last loss in the most playful way that happened in the 20th century, in the same places where these same Ustasha slaughterers killed Mrs Radete's family or other families. There's a lot of people from these parts. We have to do this in order to show our national responsibility and to know that not only in eastern Serbia's Sarajevo, the day of the exodus of the Sarajevo Serbs, that these traitors who say all these things every day, but also in this film about Vukic, what they said, that Serbs, that we occupied Sarajevo and such things, such as all the worst possible constitutional sentences that you can hear from their mouths every day, but that we know that not only Serbs in Republika Srpska and Serbs in eastern Sarajevo mark that day when this exodus of our people from Sarajevo was done and all that she mentioned this morning and fellow Sokolac and all the places of suffering, but to make it a special chapter and make an institutional commitment to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71946	The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71947	Thank you, Chairman. First, let me respond to the honourable People's MP, to thank you for the kind words that you have made regarding the work of the Ministry of Culture, and as regards the implementation of this legislative proposal, in fact, the working group that the Ministry has formed. Well, I answer my word just to say that I completely agree with what you've said. Simply, this was also the case when the law on archives was recently adopted, which is also a systemically important law. Often it's not the focus of our public attention of such a thing as archives, but we've had indifference here in agreement that it's one of the fundamental laws of different laws. At that time, topics were similar to today. I just want to confirm that the permanent definition of this is called by the Ministry of Culture in relation to these circumstances. So we people present in this hall and other people who aren't here, like all people who exist on the globe co-exist in two worlds, in a material world that surrounds us and in an immaterial world, a world of ideas and symbols. If there is damage to objects, houses, whether objects are intended for culture or any other objects in the material world, we will see these damages clearly with our senses, so we will resuscitate them or we will take care of them, or at least we will notice, and we will wait for the conditions to be fixed and reconstructed. But if images and symbols and consciousness are damaged in this second part of our consciousness that deals with immaterial symbolism, these damages are more visible, sometimes less noticeable, and products, I feel free to say, more damage than those damages in the material world. For no reason did the Romans invent a context, or attitude, that is, a principle called “damacio memory. ” So, erasing people's memories, individuals, or phenomena, because they knew that if one generation of people passed without a clear awareness of a piece, an act or an undertaking, that the next generation would completely forget it. Many things have happened in the history of the Serbian people, see in the 20th century, which have been done by some with intent, very serious and concrete intent, and some are done thanks to our failure. There are a number of reasons as always, but the damages that have taken place in our culture of memory are directly reflected in the culture of identity, i.e. the question of identity, the question of self-awareness and the question of their historic missions, roles, positions, not just because of the past, as was said here in an earlier discussion, but, more importantly, because of the consequences of the future. Therefore, efforts in the future must be made, not only by the Ministry of Culture and Information, but by all other state bodies, the education system, teachers, simply as a society without stopping, we must work on building new, clear, firm awareness of certain things that we did not have a clear awareness of, but also the repairs of those damaged elements in our symbolic space, so that generations to which we will hand over this world can gain from our ancestors what we have also gained from our ancestors. This principle of continuity is one of the essential principles of the survival of societies on the historical scene. Therefore, not only are these occasions for the adoption of important laws, but in every other opportunity our community must have awareness of the necessity of such action, because it is one of the conditions of historical survival. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71948	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71949	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen National MPs, this Law on the Old Fairment Memorial Centre is the best possible thing that could have happened to us these days, primarily because of the permanent memory and mention of the victims of the Holocaust, genocide and occupation terror and war crimes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Law on the Old Fair Memorial Centre will be another strong evidence of our country's anti-fascist orientation. Thank you to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, for the initiative to pass this law, and for you, Mr Minister with your associates, for having this law on the benches these days to be considered by the MPs. Dear People's MPs, we from the ruling coalition today and yesterday received a letter of criticism, better to say to Sergei Trifunovic's swearing, in the people of the well-known Sergei Pishoi, who are filled with many lies about the fact that the honourable MPs do not care about the treatment of children with rare diseases. Let me just say that this particular government has treated 2,000 children abroad today since 2012. I won't talk about it, because the honourable MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic spoke about it extensively yesterday, but I will try to see what a liar it is – Sergei Trifunovic. You know why he sent it to us yesterday? Because he paid 15.15 million dinars through his Prolonged Life Foundation, and there, I must admit, he deceived me and my family, collected for the treatment of sick children, in fact, to the Slovenian Investment Fund "Ilirika" with a certain interest. "Ilirica" gave him 10 million dinars, and the other 5.15 ate a kitten, I would say. So, evaporated, he took it. Namely, this impertinent man, in the name of sick children, has been lurking and stealing money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To see, respected citizens, what a liar it is. This impertinent outside our country, from Dubrovnik, blasphemes and lies on behalf of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, in the name of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and fighters of Serbia's Liberation Wars. So he said of power in his own country abroad, I quote: "We have a group of criminals in power with a primary school, and some in high school, and some in high school, and they do things that are," to apologize for the term, "dangerous cunts". It's a finished quote. Dear citizens, can you believe that these words are spoken by Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei Pisa? The nickname was named after what he said, quote: “Writting on Alexander Vukic’s grave, ” the quote concluded. Dear citizens, for him, not criminals are those of his friends who brought the country to the brink of the abyss, such as Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Dragan Djilas, in the people known as Điki Mafia, and others gathered in the Alliance for Serbia. This Sergei Trifunovic, called Sergei Pishoi, from a trip from Dubrovnik praises Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija, an ugly Serb from Kosovo and Metohija by without shame and shame, I quote: "Vučić's clan of Serb mafia from northern Kosovo and Metohija killed Oliver Ivanovic. The north of Kosovo has no problem with Albanians," the quote concluded. Are fellow professors of the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, gentlemen of students and respected citizens from Kosovo and Metohija and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you can believe that this Sergei Trifunovic, called Sergei Pishoi, is such a disgusting lie? Dear Trifunovic, it wasn't Oliver Ivanovic who was darkened in Serbian, but in Shiptar prisons, and you know it, you know it well. The country's nostalgist has brought charges to the expense of Interior Minister Nebojja Stefanovic, Minister of Zlatibor Loncar, voters and members of the SNS and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, calling them cattle. It further states, quotes: "That genocide occurred in Srebrenica, in Jasenovac slaughter, and “Storm” is ethnic cleansing". What's true from abroad and what he said is that Dragan Gilas is a mob, he really told the truth, and he praised Boška Obradovic for breaking into RTS with a saw. Then he uttered a true truth to himself, quoting: “I am a great fool, ” finished the quote. This is the one Sergei Trifunovic, who said on 31 January 2019, quote: "Kosovo is Albanian, not Serbian" and thus is classified as the traitorous bastards of our country. To see who this Sergei Trifunovic is and what lies he's sowing, so you'll understand this letter we got. This Sergei, in a people called pistachios, moved the borders of the vermin by lying that the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic at the time of our country's bombing by NATO villains and RTS knew in advance about the attack and that he allegedly pulled his mother Angelina out of the RTS building in time. And the president's mother was in the RTS building that night. Respected citizens, Trifunovic was denied by the most bitter of Vucic's opponents. Slavisa Lekic, the recent president of NUNS, says, quotes: "People who were in RTS that night claim that she was there, the truth is true," the quote concluded. The second most concerned journalist, Željko Pantelic, says, quotes: "You're right, Slavisa, I sat across from her that night in RTS," finished the quote. That is why Biljana Srbanovic, who is otherwise my political opponent, who best said about Sergei Trifunovic, called Sergei Pisa, is quoted as saying: "The Unrepentant, lying Sergei, is now your leader of protest and boycott. He was always a sneaky liar, always creeping in on me, being a gold medal in getting in my ass. He always lied, always smelled, always grabbed himself for drinks, money and a meal, never washed, always cheated on his colleagues," the quote ended. That's what she said on 20.01.2019. In the end, his colleagues are really right when they call him "one gram for immediately and two grams for carrying". Nothing is better than his colleagues from the Alliance for Serbia. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, we from the Serbian People's Party will not respond to their hatred and violence, because we know that with the help of violence we cannot kill their lie, nor to establish the truth, nor to destroy the hatred they sow every day and through documentary films, because we are aware that hate and violence cannot be driven away by the hatred and violence they sow, but only by the love and discipline we bring back from these benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71950	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71951	We here, Mr. Minister, just want to be as precise as possible. This is very important what we do when it comes to this Memorial center. Perhaps we Serbian radicals in our amendments sometimes exaggerate in our efforts to define as accurately as possible some concepts, because this is an opportunity to start a new era, and in our opinion, it is an opportunity to finally tell a part of the truth, part of the truth about the loss of the Serbian people, so I am a team and all those who lived with us Serbs in this space, and they were killed by fascism. We still have a lot of work to do here. And you know, there's a huge paperwork that's still under the rule of "extremely confidential", and it's not open yet to make an insight, to see who they are and how many victims are, and also to see who's responsible for so many victims. We have countless forgeries in history, and here's the topic, my colleague Ljubisa talked about it, about textbooks, although there's one statement in this film, in this documentary that's in line with the biggest episodeal roles, if it wasn't for Emir Kusturica to be safe, it's about reading, but it's not a topic right now, if we didn't turn away. This is about that apart from this memorial monument, there must be something that is learning in schools to take care of, not directly under your authority, under the authority of the Ministry of Education, but these textbooks, especially history textbooks, than what is important to our people's history, must be much more closely controlled and thrown out by both public and critics. You can't go over it and talk – I guess that's understood. There is something many will not understand, nor do they understand what Serbian indifference is when it says, so I guess that's what it is. I apologize, colleague Ljubisha, for putting you behind Emir Kusturica, but you will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71952	The People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71953	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can't be happy, I can't even thank my colleague for, as I understand it, running for an episode of roles, etc. and compared it to Kusturica. I'm not an acting man. If it was necessary to sing a song, to recite something, to drink a cup or a bottle of drinks, I could do that. I could do that, and I'd accept that, and I wouldn't have a problem. As for my statement quoted in that movie, I said it then and I'm standing behind it, and for the next ten or a hundred years, I don't know how much I'm going to live, I'm always ready to support what I said and I'm never going to give up that sentence or those sentences. First of all, everyone who knows me, especially you Radical brothers, I've been in the SRS for 18 years, you know that I've always been patriotically defined, and that in the first place I've had Serbia and the Serbian people. And after a magnificent speech in Aleksinc, held by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, I said the speech was phenomenal and that the speech should be in every reader, in every book related to the history of the Serbian people. And I'm still behind it. What's the problem now? That's what I've said several times. The problem with us Serbs is that we underestimate what ours is. If someone said that there was a tenth, an Albanian, if a Hungarian, a Croat, or I don't know, I don't know, that would have been nice and nice. But when a Serb says something nice about his countryman, or his president, right away, there are some experts who make fun of everything and talk about it. There's no Gjorge Vukadinovic. He also had a statement about it, so he compared me to someone, but it doesn't matter at all. Me, I'm staying on it. Thank you, colleague Mircic, for taking so much care of me and thank you for that candidacy, but I told you I am behind that statement in the next 10, 20 years and how many years I will never give up that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71954	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71955	Well, it's not a colleague's statement, it's a style here, the way you said it, just like Emir Kusturica in "Walter defends Sarajevo", you were so convincing. That's why I'm putting you in line for an episodeist like Emir Kusturica. To return to something that is serious, which I want to attribute to you, as one of the few who advocates that future printing of textbooks, especially those related to the history of the Serbian people, are not printed under the auspices of those who pay taxes in Croatia and who are Croatian citizens, not only that, the citizens, but are not only that, but they stand out for sponsoring the Ustashaid Croatian party, which is already in continuity for many years in power. And you are one of the few from the ruling coalition, it must be acknowledged, to the insistence of us Serbian radicals, who has accepted to pay attention when it comes to textbooks, when it comes to education at all. We're talking to the Minister of Resort here. It is important that many things are found in this memorial centre that do not mean the first wave and this law, as the minister accepted the idea until these memorial centers are established for all of Werem, that this memorial centre be the central place where there will be documentation of all the events that took place in Sreme. It's now left to local levels of government or someone else, and we need to access this business very, very seriously. The dilemmas are being raised whether someone will understand it, whether they understand it, but we are working here to illuminate or disclose the history of the Serbian people, not to make sure that anyone appreciates it or not. All these circumstances that suggest that after this meeting in Poland on the other side, they give us motive more so that we can get this business right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71956	Right on the replica, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71957	As far as these textbooks are concerned, I advocate that these textbooks be unique and written by our authors, to print our Bookshop. You're wrong when you say I'm one of the few people standing for it. The Education Committee held a joint meeting with the Committee on the Education of Republika Srpska a year ago, and we agreed to create joint textbooks that would be used by all in the schools of Republika Srpska and Serbia in four cases. It was history, Serbian language, geography, and I don't know exactly, I think it was another fourth, it doesn't matter. I think there was a good idea. Even the Governments of Republika Srpska and the Government of Serbia had one joint session to discuss it and the rest was that the Educational Institute, the Educational Institute and these two committees, their and ours, met and worked on it. Like everything else, it goes a little sloppyly, slowly, but I hope that it will come to an agreement very soon and that we will really make textbooks as history tells us, that is, our past, as it commands the present and future of Serbia. We don't ask that there be something in those textbooks that isn't true, but we won't let some who have been defeated now write history and talk about us being on some defeated side, that we are like this. As far as your party is concerned, it's an honor to you, and it's an honor to you on those points of view, but here I have a recommendation for you. Soon the elections, make an effort, win a significant number of votes, join the new government and joint forces to do something to improve Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71958	Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71959	Well, we are sincerely fighting those or political options that are to change the minds of the Serb people. We are witnessing that we are exposed to a longer period of pressure that the essential awareness that the government in Serbia is not the consciousness that leads us to the future. Every normal and serious person knows what it means to change consciousness, not just with one nation, but with an individual. It's a crime that seems, and the prerequisite for a change of mind is exactly what we're talking about today. That's a very significant prerequisite. It's those mental-care people who say, what you need history for, what you need memorial centers for, why you talk about these victims. And then we get into a situation where we've already mentioned, let's say, we have something that's just something that's unique to Hollywood and its production. There's been a myth made about Srebrenica, a myth about the Warrior, a myth about the Khrtkovites. People don't understand that. A lot of people don't take it seriously. It is important to find one place, a neurolgic point called the Krtkovci so that tomorrow the claims of those who are concerned about the Serbian people's awareness that there was a mass eviction of those who are not Serbian nationalities. When they're able to realize it, you've seen the preparations they've made. When it comes to final realization, it'll be too late. They accused Vojislav Seselj of literally taking part in the plan for eviction. Well, one can't plan to move, it can only move with the help of the state, and that's the preparation for what they're going to Brussels for. Those gathering around the US Embassy, they are going to promise that they will do much more and faster not only when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, but when it comes to the Raska area, namely Sandzak and Vojvodina, and they have a neural point in Vojvodina, to charge and to say, for safety reasons, for the safety of those who are not Serbian nationality. The Duchess must have a higher degree of autonomy. That's the strategy, that's the project of change of consciousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71960	Thank you. Right on line, MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71961	I understand you completely, and you're right, but it's always been that in every nation there are those who don't think well of their people. There have always been freaks who have worked against the interests of their peoples, but it is up to us to overcome you and not to let them destroy our country or the future of that country. Look what happened in Montenegro! Who believed half a year ago that what was happening in Montenegro would happen? It came to the people of consciousness, he could no longer suffer wrong, he could not suffer injustice. God looked at that people. Today, tens of thousands go out two or three times a week to demonstrate and demonstrate their unity, their commitment to the country and to the Serbian Orthodox Church. I guess that's how it's gonna be in Serbia, too. We'll come to our senses once, and we'll all get up and tell those freaks - enough! If you care about America, if you care about England, I don't know who either, go there and live there and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71962	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71963	What I want to ask the minister is that it is related to this controversy that my colleague Ljubisha and I had -- how long will the Ministry, or the Government, tolerate, but literally, Minister, I am not exaggerating, the experience that is seen in playing the play "On the Drina Cupria", directed by a man named Sandokan, and his nickname is Kokan? I assume you watched that show, Minister, she's playing at the Serbian National Theatre. One of the symbols of this performance is when the Serbian flag is trampled and spit on Serbia. It's Andric's "On the Drina Cup," but directed by Sandokana. Imagine what a paradox! Can't the Ministry react if it doesn't react to the public already? But it is difficult to expect from the part of the public that is being looked at, let's say, at the Serbian Academy of Sciences or at some other institutions, they are worse when it comes to making fun of everything that is related to both tradition and the creation of the Serbian people. Not to be surprised tomorrow when some performance is organised, with direct or indirect assistance from the Serbian government, which will have more serious consequences, which will show that Serbs are killing those who are not their nationality and that Serbs are evicting those who are not their nationality. And then we'll be surprised, let's say, where did that come from, when there's no historical fact. Their facts are based not on the truth, but on the fabrication of lies, Minister. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71964	The word has a minister, Mr. Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71965	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MP, I haven't seen that play, which doesn't change anything that can be said or kept quiet. So I haven't seen her in person, so I can't judge. But in the media, I've noticed controversy about the subject. The object theatre is not an institution of culture whose founder is the Ministry of Culture... I'm talking about the theater where this show is happening. That theater has its own programming advice, has its board of directors, has its founder. Simply, despite the often different views of the public, the Ministry of Culture, this is neither justice nor vats, this is a simple reminder of the facts, there is no tools available, unrelated now to this play but at all to some other phenomena, to react in the way that it may have been possible in some earlier eras. This society has been defined for one other approach in the field of culture, and when it comes to individual media, and when it comes to certain content in the field of culture. We can't censor, we can't ban, we can't get off the repertoire and we can't affect the independence of the cultural institution. But, I'm saying, there are a few, if there's something controversial, I wouldn't be giving a grade on that play at this time, but if it's something controversial somewhere, at an exhibition or at some show, there's a whole series of authorities responsible for the institution of culture or for the gallery or for the theater or for anything, who are invited to say their own court or to present their critical position, if that's what needs it. The Ministry of Culture simply doesn't act in such things and we think that, in general, sometimes a man regrets it, sometimes he would want more authority, but generally, it's good and society in his growing up, it seems to me, although this is my personal assessment and can't be considered an official attitude of the Ministry of Culture and Information, but society through such or similar or some other experience and through some swallowed bitter pill and matures, in some way. Because it might be better for awareness of phenomena and phenomena to be formed in our citizens based on their impressions, not on a state-run attitude, especially when it comes to cultural phenomena, I think it's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71966	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71967	The point is, Mr. Minister, as I pointed out, that the Government directly or indirectly, or indirectly, whether through the Government's authority or through some lower authorities, regional or local authorities, is in some way participating in the most direct support of these cases. I remind you, you remember the play "The Dove" well. "The Dove" is a performance that at that time caused a great storm in public, but drew attention to many pigeons. The doves are places, locations where Serbs have been massively dumped in Dalmatia's Zagora and Herzegovina. These are break-ins in fragile, rocky areas, where pigeons are usually nested, which is why it has the name of a dove. The dove's got a lot. The Serbian people, if there is anything, unfortunately, there are such places and such cannons. You know how much storm and hajka has raised, not only against the show, but also against the author. And it's no wonder it's been waiting this long for this memorial center. If the Serbian people had not begun to be a genocide, and Simishte was taken as an example that in Serbia's territory and that, in particular, it was not going to endanger the victims and the number of victims, not only Serbs but also the Jewish and Roma people, the question is when would this be realized. It's all questions. We don't have to wait for events to happen that connect to these and similar shows. After all, we have public figures in the field of culture who speak loud and clear -- Kosovo and Metohija need to surrender. Can't this society have a mechanism and say -- you can't just say that, it's against the Constitution of this country. Like the reduction of the victims of any nation who suffered from fascism in World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71968	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we have already spoken in the principle debate, of course there is a need to invest and mark everything in our history, our perilousness, with the goal of never forgetting. But I would have to remind you of another Serbian Radical Party initiative, which we proposed four years ago, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia officially forms a special institute for the study of Hague verdicts. Why would they let me put an illegal court aimed at putting all the blame for the bloody civil war and the fall of the former Yugoslavia on the Serbian people, declaring us genocide, after being unjust and beyond any doubt the verdicts that are directed exclusively towards the Serb people in general? The court is also called upon by the International Court of Justice and many others, especially in so-called the region, but, unfortunately, in Serbia as well. So, to investigate this, to add it all together and to see then actually real practice and goal and the existence of The Hague tribunal. That would be done by one responsible state that won't allow the truth and history to be tailored by our enemies and those who don't think well of our people. The thesis on genocide, reportedly in Srebrenica, came from The Hague tribunal, although there is absolutely no foothold in law, and a man repeatedly mentioned by lawmakers of the ruling coalition at the time of the initial debate of Ephraim Zuroff, who is director of the Centre "Simon Visental" himself repeatedly said that calling the genocide what happened in Srebrenica insulted all the victims who died in the Holocaust. It's the Hague tribunal for you today and it was his role. So, the goal was to mark one nation, that this people would then be shown, and then very easily complement everything else and attribute it to our genocide nature, our bad traits, that we were unsuccessful, because we were evil and genocide. That is the essence and the Republic of Serbia, in our opinion, must not be reconciled, not to mention that our courts are often called on by the UN tribunal's verdicts and the work of the UN tribunal. What is also the need to show responsibility in another field, which is to introduce order in the functioning of NGOs in Serbia with a special law. Anyone who is financed from abroad through various foundations, whether it's George Soros or USAID or someone else, anyone who has to be legitimateized in public, to represent what paid for it, or to present who stands behind it as an agent of foreign interest, or foreign influence. The fact that someone has now published on their website how much money they have received is not enough because they are not publicly represented as mercenaries, or people who are engaged. I'm saying again, I'm not about to ban it, but to make it clear to everyone. So it's not enough just that it's thrown on the website, it has to be public every time. They are portrayed in our public as the main moral authority on all issues, followed by the UN tribunal's policy. Their basic topics about Serbia are: Srebrenica genocide, a major Serbian occupation, or invasion of Croatia, independent Kosovo, etc. These people insult our victims. They deny the number of people killed in the bombing. They support counterfeits, or events aimed at manipulating the world’s public opinion, such as the event in Račka, that we are not just talking about Srebrenica. That's how they insult us all. So it must be a responsibility and it must be shown that anyone who is a member of an NGO who claims to influence Serbia's policy must show up as well as those who pay it show up. They are not independent, they are dependent. What is a much bigger problem for the Republic of Serbia is that, unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia pays certain projects directly or indirectly to the same NGOs. So now it's not about the Olympic Committee, the SPC, the Red Cross, etc., but only NGOs that have prefixes of human-rights, or that have in their name human rights, and two words, even though they repeat it in public, are difficult to compromise human rights. So, to be introduced into funding. Why would the state of Serbia pay for someone who will later go to advertise genocide in Srebrenica or independent Kosovo, or the Cypriot martyrs, so-called. to represent here in Belgrade, we've had cases like this? I really don't think it's normal for the government of the Republic of Serbia to be behind the financing of the Mirdita Festival, which aimed at promoting Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade, at the Centre for Cultural Decontamination. So that's the government's money in Serbia. What is the goal and what is the need for this funding? Then do we agree with the promotion of Kosovo culture in Belgrade, so-called? The only thing I can say for that term is Kosovo culture, I can only say that it's probably part of all that that includes burning of Serbian churches and monasteries, desecration of cemeteries, etc. I'm not quite sure that we are talking about the loss of the Serb people in Kosovo with the same ferocity and that it is also financed, as is financed by the NGO sector. They are placed here in Serbia and above official institutions, they decide and give guidelines, they are very critical in the public, they have some kind of pressure to change things, we saw it in this election process, i.e. Pre-election process. So it was necessary to engage the foundation, i.e. The George Soros Open Society Fund and their representation in Belgrade, so they can start an alleged dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. It seems to me that, not only is it humiliating for Serbia, it also seems to me that it shows the true hierarchy in Serbia and who it treats. It seems to me that they are the authorities of both the ruling parties and the ruling parties, but also most of the opposition, or the pro-Western opposition. It was very easy for both advances and Democrats to forget everything they said about each other in 24 hours when Milan Antonijevic called them on the Faculty of Political Sciences. We didn't hear who the thieves were, what who stole them, etc., they were already extremely constructive. It's a bit strange, viewed on the side, but in any case, by reputation of the United States and the Russian Federation, simply make a systematization of these NGOs, to see where the money comes from, who pays and influences and whose interest that influence is in Serbia. We believe it is not normal for NGOs, especially "women in black", Fund Natasa Kandic, "Juko", civil initiatives, houses of human rights and other nonsense, to be compared to some cultural institutions, such as the Mother of Serbia in funding, and to turn out to be ten times the amount from the Republic of Serbia's NGO budget, but rather the Serbian literary cooperative and the Matica Serbian, for example. We believe that this is not normal, and we believe that every government since 2000, which has done so, or financed by NGOs, is thus paying for a racket, because it is an offensive opinion that without their support it cannot be in power and that they are very important to some foreign factors and that their recommendation depends on who will form the Serbian government, for example. It is better for money to be given, so that they compromise our history, that they offend our people, the church and the rest, than for them to be enemies, so that they can join your political opponents. That's the point. We've had so-called recently. "Apel 88", aimed at condemning Belgrade's internal affairs in Montenegro and preventing, and I don't know what, Serbia's aggression on Montenegro and the rest, which was over the controversial Law on freedom of religion, what a paradox, which is kidnapping the assets of the SPC and which is an attempt to nationalise the SPC in Montenegro. The list lists all these NGO representatives, some of whom joined later, but somehow it is a feature of Serbian enemies that they all easily join themselves and put themselves on the list, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in indirect or direct ways some of these people are funding for their work and I don't understand how there's no problem in all of this? The Republic of Serbia is not some rich country that can pay for anything and especially should not make priorities of NGOs compared to some cultural institutions, compared to Matica, for example. That relationship needs to change to change something in culture. So, from today to tomorrow with individual cases, or individual solutions, we're not gonna get anywhere. That's what we've suggested these four years more times, but we haven't heard, that's not what we're suggesting. We believe that we can expect nothing good from those who call for genocide in Srebrenica, those who call for recognition of Kosovo's independence, those who talk about large-scale aggression in Croatia, and we believe that they should be on the sidelines in our society, and not to be the authority on any matter, and in particular we believe that they should not be paid out of the budget and that there are many things that should be done in the first place, historically, with a national prefix, and that money should be focused on it, but it should be a change in all segments and should be done thoroughly, and not that we should accept the tutorship and authority of NGOs. One of the journalists recently said they are the cancer on the tissue of our democracy, because they are being placed above parliament, above the government of the Republic of Serbia and key decision-makers when it comes to strategic direction, foreign policy orientation and a view of certain historical developments. It will be a real and fundamental change. I say again, around the memorial center, we support it, but let's keep remembering and work on it in all segments of the perilous and in the 20th century and before that and do it systematically, not from case to case.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71970	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 5th amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, after the adoption of this bill, you and I and all of us here and many others who are not, will have a much greater obligation than they've ever had. This is a good message, and you've heard from my colleagues from the SRS that we are openly and clearly saying that maybe even earlier, but we don't need to criticize everything that didn't come sooner. And this Article 5. The bill is essential, it actually tells what is the work of this Memorial center and has two attitudes. The first attitude speaks of what is the essence - collecting, keeping, working, etc., and in the second attitude is about something that would be secondary work, a kind of construction work that might be carried out on a particular continent of this Memorial center. We're sending a clear message. And there, in the light of the law, you stated somewhere that based on some experiences this Memorial center should visit at an annual level of about 50,000 visitors. In collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Minister, this might be the lowest figure we should count on. What's so important to us? On today, when we were supposed to promote the book "In Srebrenica There was no genocide", the director of the Cultural Centre, Mrs. Sonja Petrovic Jagic, who promised the premises this morning when a representative, or president of our city committee in Sapac, Slobodan Rankovic, went to regulate the financial obligation, she said this way – on the orders of his president, I cannot approve it. I'm just wondering who the president is. Probably Nebojsa Zelenovic. Which president is that such a scientific act, where Professor Vojislav Seselj used strict scientific methods to prove that there was no genocide in Srebrenica? We all need to know, and not just repeat it. That's how we take care of things, fight lies and lies. The same memory centre needs for generations to come to understand, to feel, to know what happened, and all with one goal -- that it never happens again, not just to the Serbian people, but to anyone, or even to the Serbian people. But we here have one huge misunderstanding from people who are even political factors in Serbia who don't know what their fight is and what their mission is. Here, it's on a good check both SNS and maybe SPS. I am saying this for another reason, because they have the possibility in this kind of spatial sense of allowing the promotion of the book "There was no genocide in Srebrenica", which is not done by the SRS, but because of the citizens of Serbia these days in Serbia. Here, today in Kruševec at six o'clock, the president of our party, with a number of SRS officials from the Rasin County, will just speak on this topic – "There were no genocides in Srebrenica". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71973	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71974	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's Messenger, it was not directly related to the subject of this law, what you were talking about. However, the matter is, of course, implicitly mentioned or can be mentioned or may have something to do with some of the provisions of this law and the subject of the law. Now I'd like to say something that can apply to the subject, the same one that was mentioned earlier in the previous part of this session. What do we have as facts? When we speak and use the terms that are in international legal traffic, you and I personally at the level of citizens or homo sapiens can have some notion of interpreting one way or another, other people in another way, third etc. So many people, so many interpretations. However, what this society should adhere to when it comes to the concept of genocide can only refer to the meaning of the concept of genocide established by the UN Convention of 1948, where in a rather clear and comprehensive manner it speaks of what that word, or what that term can include in its meaning, is understood in a broader sense. Whether certain phenomena, events of war crimes or tragic events from history, closer or further, individual ad hoc international authorities or rope groups have found as the concept of genocide, should not have a greater impact on this society. Because if we're going to follow what, I stress, the ad hoc tribunals or the ad hoc group or the ad hoc community or alliances promoted as some new version of a very important concept, it's irrelevant from the point of view of the definition accepted by the UN. Of course, abuse of concepts and abuse of the use of that concept, as you speak of other peoples' MPs, is an awkward subject and it is necessary to open four eyes so that these people are not attributed to things that have not happened. In any case, we have a foothold in something that has been accepted by the entire international community by the Convention and the 1948 Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71975	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71976	Thank you. Mr Minister, a small number of MPs, the amendment of the SRS refers to Article 6(2). The bill, where we asked for the Director of the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre to be appointed for four years, which is also in line with the Government Act, not as proposed for five years. It is rare that a legislative proposal in our legislative practice has caused similar or identical reactions, in particular the approval of representatives of the ruling coalition on the opposition, such as this proposal. Serbia is a small country, but with many sites, such as the "Old Fair" and similar death factories, and there are dozens and dozens of them alike. Every tourist who visits a country, along with the inevitable natural beauty, necessarily has historical sights on the repertoire of the visit, the most significant events in the history of every nation, and what are the events above the pogroms and the mass destruction of a country's population? For example, the Old Fair is an obvious example in this direction and it is good to do this memorial centre with one clear and once unforgettable message – not to forget. Gentlemen of the government, no one has ever prevented us from having many deaths, not only of the Serb population, but of the Jewish and Roma population, to redecorate and turn into an eternal memory, never to forget. In the end, I would also like to say something about the loss of the Serbian people earlier in World War I, which was also spoken of by a prominent Swiss professor, forensics and criminologist Archibald Rice. It's good not to forget, to remain in the consciousness and memory of the people our people went through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71977	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71978	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable and responsible MPs present, the SRS parliamentary group, submitted this amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on the Old Fair Memorial Center. Article 6 refers to the authorities of the Memorial Centre. In the position of the third member, provisions defining the conditions for the appointment of board members as one of the authorities are laid down. In point 3 of Article 3(3), it is defined that the Government shall appoint and resolve two members of the Management Board on a proposal from the Authority of the State Administration responsible for cultural affairs. The Serbian Radical Party proposes amendments to amend item 3) by saying "two members - on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture and Information". We believe that this article should be amended because our amendment is in accordance with the Government Act. In an explanation, the proposer stated that the law applies, in order to fulfil the duties and permanent memory and monuments of Holocaust victims, the genocide of occupation terror and war crimes, which will, above all, allow not to forget historical facts about the existence of camps in Belgrade's territory. The adoption of this amendment would be of great benefit, as one such law would be passed in accordance with the other roof law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71979	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71980	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on the Old Fair Memorial Center. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia did not take these things seriously. It's a good thing she remembered to pass a law that speaks of Serbian casualties. What is not good is the fact that the law refers to only one location, or Old Fair. What about other Serb strategies, which unfortunately have many in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, especially in areas that belong today to other countries of the former SFRY? As a person born and raised in Kosovo and Metohija, I have always shown interest in this area, where a huge number of Serbs died during the 20th century alone. When we talk about raising memorials of markings and similar complexes, Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the whole of Serbia, gave numerous victims, started from Balkan wars, through the First and Second World Wars, to the latest wars between 1998 and 2004 and later. In particular, innocent victims were injured in multinational areas, such as our province of Kosovo and Metohija. There were also victims in times when they should not be there, in periods of peace and development of brotherhood and unity, during periods of rioting of extreme separatist forces, otherwise the dominant population of Kosovo Albanians after both world wars. Modern world history has not remembered the crime that took place in Kosovo and Metohija. There's a lot of examples, and I'll only mention one from here, and that's the one that happened after the war ended in 1999. It is a crime in the village of Staro Gracko near Lipian, when 14 harvesters of the village mentioned were killed in the middle of the day in a beastly manner. Even to this day, the perpetrators of this terrible crime have not been discovered. All these victims deserve their mark. I propose that a decision be made to raise the memorial of the victims of the Balkan wars to this day from Kosovo and Metohija, wherever they have left their bones, in captivity, in cacamates, in the naked island or on the doorstep of their house, and placed in the central part of our southern Serbian province. In the end, there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71981	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing the government adopted this amendment. It is even better to discuss a law that reminds us of the suffering of those who have created this country for decades, even centuries ago, because without patriotism, no country can exist. Unfortunately, these sites, where he died, first of all, the Serbian people, and some other peoples, have many. Those sites are mostly over the Drina, and that's what my colleague, Veronica Radeta, was talking about. There's only one thing I'd like to mention here. These days, there have been 78 years since civilian casualties in the municipality of Majornik near Leskovec, where 437 civilians were killed in one day, of which 89 children were under 14 years old. Of course, there's a note there, and I want to believe that this note is being kept and everything else. I want to say something else. I believe there are people in this room who don't know about this information and it was one terrible crime by our occupier. A colleague, Tom Ljubenovic, who is from the neighborhood, reminds me that it was a Bulgarian occupier. You can't let things like this get forgotten. I know that in the history books of the elementary school of these things, there are no or, if there are such things, only superficially and textbooks of history, above all, must process these topics, so that every child of ours, all of our future generations know where, and in what way and under what circumstances our fellow Americans have suffered. Of course, I suppose we all know there were crimes in Srebrenica, too, but it certainly wasn't genocide, as it wants to be attributed to the Serbian people, because the Serbian people were never genocide in their history.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71983	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 7th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information have adopted an amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information have adopted an amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71984	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the law has been determined to form programme councils and we have proposed several amendments, in accordance with the Government Act. In particular, the amendment has been proposed that three members of the Programme Council for the Zemun Acceptance Camp Museum are a proposal from the Ministry of Culture and Information. We have repeatedly pointed out that it is good that such a bill was found in the National Assembly before the MPs and that we certainly support it. We believe this is an opportunity to honor all victims of the "Old Fair", which is certainly a place of unremembered suffering and torture of the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people. It is our duty and obligation not to forget the fact of the existence of the camp, both in Belgrade's Second World War territory, but it is also our obligation not to forget the loss of the Serb people during the 1990s wars in the former Yugoslavia in the country war, where we have also suffered many victims. The victims of the Serb people, the most suffering people in the Balkans, were not properly respected and due to future generations, we must keep talking about them, as we must say that there was no genocide in Srebrenica and that Serbs were not genocide people, and that brutal lies such as the traitors, such as Natasa Kandic, Nenada Canka and the like of the traitors and the Serbs were criminals, aggressors and the main culprits of the conflicts of the 1990s, committed genocide, that in every place we strongly condemn and imprisoned, because there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71985	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71986	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in conflict with ourselves, we always lose. While we fought for others, everyone else fought against us. I'm going to try a few examples to prove to our viewers that it's worth having a hot heart and a cold head, and not the other way around, that you don't need to go into conflict with a hot head. This photograph was taken by the first commander of RV and PSC of the return, his name was Franjo Pierce. He came to Partizane from Ante Pavelic headquarters in 1944. By the way, he was a royal airman, a pilot who fled to Pavelic in 1941 after the founding of NDH. Because he was one of the commanders in Kragujevac, it seems to me, the weakest we've ever been to defend ourselves by air is from Kragujevac. That our viewers knew that this rotten kingdom, which they taught me at school that it was rotten and capitulated in 12 days, seemed to have thrown 3,500 German soldiers out of the machine, that this airship he betrayed, royal, bombed airports in Hungary, Bulgaria and seems to me in Austria. Isn't that right, Mr. Martinovic? That rotten Yugoslavia. In the second lesson, they taught me, in the first, that the rotten Yugoslavia capitulated in 12 days, and in the previous lesson they taught me, or in one of the previous lessons, how we saved the Soviet Union, Russia. Because on March 27th, where the underpaid Simovic sacrificed 15% of Serbs, so that the Englishman would die far less than the Americans, from 0.2% to 0.8% and the Serbs went to war with Hitler with their hot heads, and we lost 15% of the population. Franjo Pierce betrayed and fled to Pavelic's side. And, behold, in 1944, he came to the Partisans, becoming the first commander of the Air Force, allegedly the National Liberation Army. How did he further release the Serbs? Now you'll hear the ones you don't know. So, first thing he did, he called his officers and issued an order to report all former airmen for a new war schedule. When the pilots who were shot down in conflict with the Germans who had thrown 154 German aircraft out of the machine, when these downed pilots reported for a change in the military schedule, to put themselves in service of the state, Franjo Pierce picked them up, took them to the village of Apple in Pancheva and executed 72 royal officers who fought against Hitler's air force, while he fled to Pavelic's side. That is why I say that the Serbs served the Croats only as a transitional period from one NDH to another. As soon as the first next opportunity came, we had Anton Tuss, etc. Let's see how successful that release from the life of Serbs was in the Croats, item number two. This officer's name is Marko Mesic. Mr. Martinovic, you may know something about this, as I know. It is the uncle of the famous Mesic who said - The task is done, Yugoslavia no longer exists. Here, let's see the anti-fascist past of Mesic. This is his uncle, 369th regiment, as they called her, trapped at Stalingrad's. They were picked up by the Russians. Then they didn't know if to kill them, so they decided to change them into partisans. They were sent to Serbia in October 1944, that what the NDH failed to do, which they did not do in the Ustasha uniform to do in uniform dressed as alleged partisans, into liberators. Do you know what he was doing when he came to the hateful White Court royal complex? He shot at St. Andrew's church and threw an icon at that church. It's a story about Mark Mesic. I think there are traces in that church of the rapal that fired this Ustasha dressed in a Partizan uniform, decided to send tens of thousands of Serb young men on the Sremski front, those who survived the Allied bombing, and ten times Serbia was bombed in 1944, under the orders of an enemy soldier from the first war, Josip Broz, who chose the targets that allies should bomb in Serbia. When the turn came, Slovenia Edward Cardellj said – you know, this did not yield results in Serbia, so only Serbia-Montenegro was bombed, i.e. the goals populated by the Serb population. Therefore, Serbian brothers, let us consider well, not before time in other people's wars, and certainly not, it is a message for these poor fellow Serbs, not in conflict with themselves, because in these conflicts we certainly lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71987	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71988	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, inspired by the part of your address, just to add, this may be the people's MPs interested, some know, some don't, in public too, someone knows, someone doesn't, in the total number of victims who were killed in what we now call the Old Fair Memorial Center, there were two camps, there were victims, and not few, who were killed not only by Germans and Ustasha, but were also killed by Allied bombings on 16 and 17 April 1944. This, not selectively, allied bombing of Belgrade led to a direct blow to the death of the then birth home in Krunska Street, that numerous targets were hit at Vrakar, the Old Town and the Sava Wreath and its general suffering and the misery of the martyrs at the "Old Fair" were added to the victims of the Allies or in the situation so-called "The Old Fair". Ally. Serbia's bombing was not only at Easter in Belgrade in 1944 by English and American bombers, but also in southern Serbia, where Leskovac and Nis and other cities died. Therefore, when it comes to the historical frameworks of a phenomenon, especially when it is a world war, it needs the truth for the will, because of the historical truth and the justice and education of generations that are taking place, of course because of the lessons of historical knowledge and such data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71989	Thank you, Mr. Vukosavlevich. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Natasha Sp has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71990	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we wanted to comply with this provision in Article 10 with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically with Article 23. It's okay what you've made as a suggestion, in some other sense, if it were in a magazine or if it were an example in a place where it's appropriate to write. But when you say it. And of course, you said, with a firm belief that every man's dignity is unhinged value. Already the Constitution, article 23, says that the dignity of every man is unimpeached and that the Constitution guarantees every free development of a person, until the moment he comes into college with constitutional provisions, and we here in Serbia, so it happened, here in this Assembly, to remind you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, we also have such MPs who are still boycotting the work, who not only did they not respect the dignity of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but they have already entered the RTS by motor saws. Here, that unfortunate man brought in some stone, everything there was, so we can't say that every man has a conscience about what an incomparable dignity of a person is. But, on the other hand, Mr. Minister, this is an opportunity today, because we are in this time and here we are talking about the suffering and the Serbian people of the most suffering in the Balkans in the 20th century, and then the Jewish and Roma ones, and not to look back at all the events and the struggles of our people, and that's why I'm going to take advantage of that word of dignity, the dignity of our people in Serbia's Montenegro. Indeed, for all of us, their dignity, prayers and lithium that are being organised daily throughout the cities of Montenegro is a sign that no one will ever be able to harm the Orthodox Serbian people with any move of that dignity. They bombed us in 1999 for 78 days, these NATO villains without a doubt. In Republika Srpska, Ustashas killed in 1941 and then in the pogroms after 90 years, so many Serbs. Our people had to leave their centuries-old hearths, but this awareness that every Serb sanctity is intact for every Serb and all that today's people in Serbia's Montenegro are doing is, in fact, a pledge for the future. What makes me say that? Because the traitors and the wicked and in the image of Milo Djukanovic and all those dikes around him have done something they cannot destroy. They hit the Serb sanctuary, where the hand of St John the Baptist is kept, and the particle of the honorable cross, of the Ostreg, of the monastery Morac, and of all those saints that were not even communists who had been so ideologically breast-feeding struck since 1945. They have taken possessions and possessions, property, land, but churches and monasteries. And you know, here in the National Assembly, we Serbian radicals have reacted, on the first day we asked that the state, namely, and the President of the Republic at all times react vigorously and to ask the UN, of all international institutions that should respect human rights and dignity, which is the dignity and freedom of our faith and the protection of our sanctity in Montenegro, that we keep advertising and that every such opportunity is an opportunity for it. We really do everything on our part to shed light on all the tragic events that have happened with our people and the events that impute us as something that we have done and we haven't. We have proven that there were no genocide in Srebrenica and that is why I am also using the opportunity today, here in this address to invite all the citizens of Kruševac to come to the promotion of Dr Vojislav Seselj's book "There was no genocide in Srebrenica" in the White Hall today, which Kruševljani knows. And so, with the guests of our leaders and all those who address, they really have the opportunity to get acquainted with the real events in that space and therefore our gatherings and invitations to come to the promotion of that book, in fact, the support of our people's struggle in Serbia's Montenegro. And we believe that the dignified Serb people who have risen, who will not give the anti-Serbian regime of Milo Djukanovic to threaten him will continue to fight, and we will do everything we can to help him.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71991	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The amendment was submitted to Article 11 by the MP, Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, of the People's Parliament. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 13 by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, the People's MP, Ms. Radet, submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what good is it to discuss, among other things, today, this law? Somehow, there is the impression that some MPs, some of whom a few years ago, were not imagined to speak this openly about both Serbian victims and Serbs in general, that they were somehow as bold as this law, so that we could hear such comments and voices, not only of the SRS MPs, because of our constant listening and will be heard of course. It is good that we no longer have a problem to say that we are Serbs, that as Serbs we have suffered many victims, that as Serbs we are a fallen people, that for many Serbian victims no one has ever responded, many Serbian victims are a crime without punishment and that things stand at the level of your EU, that will hardly change. But we will certainly insist on that, and these days, when we talked about this, we mentioned both the Minister and all of you how bad it is for certain NGOs to finance from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I mean those NGOs that run a fully open anti-Serbian and anti-state policy. One of them, the minister said his ministry did not give money to these NGOs, but you know, it is money from the budget given through this Office for Human and Minority Rights, then no less, but that initiative of young people for human rights, which sounds nice, is being organised by the Cyprus-based Merdita Festival on the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is also an NGO that is directly funded by the budget of the Republic of Serbia that is RECOM, it is this kind of regional commission, when it was founded you were all so happy, here, at the level of all the states of the former Yugoslavia, it is forming this regional commission that will finally establish all the victims in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Then, at the head of the RECOM for the Republic of Serbia, you know who Natasa Kandic. Can anyone expect Natasa Kandic to do anything in Serbia's interest and in the interest of the Serb people? Of course no one can imagine that, of course it can never happen. But Natasa Kandic is not the only one who spends money on the Republika Srpska budget and runs anti-Serbian politics. You heard earlier that the Serbian Radical Party, our municipal board in Sapac, had scheduled the promotion of the book, the trotomical book of Vojislav Seselj "There was no genocide in Srebrenica" and that we had been informed that we could not hold that promotion in the hall there, because Zelenovic banned it. So, banning the promotion of books in local self-government rooms is nothing more than fascism. And this someone who so propagates fascist methods like this Zelenovic, is about to go to elections to offer his ideas to the citizens of Sapca, I don't know what he's going to say to them, to say – the citizens of Sapca, I'm a fascist, vote for me. So it's something that's absolutely unacceptable, but unfortunately it's happening in the state of Serbia. We as a people, we Serbs, have many reasons to be proud of our history, of our tradition, of our free ideas, of our fighters, of our heroes, and most of us are. But unfortunately, we also have reason to be ashamed that they are part of our people, I will repeat, I have already said that, some who are only Serbs at birth, that is why the case wanted to be Serbs like this Zelenovic, and Natasha Kandic and others like them, Canka, Ceda and others. We need arguments and laws like this and laws like this, we have to fight against that, and I really won't go too far if I say anti-Serb hysteria. The anti-Serbian hysteria in Serbia is growing and is becoming louder and louder, more and more, not only the Serbian Radical Party as an opposition party, but also the parties from the authorities pleading and speaking in this direction, and then, I guess to them, these anti-Serbian organisations and individuals, it somehow gives them the fear that they could truly overcome consciousness in Serbia, and we believe that already they are, that no one should ever be ashamed to say that he is a Serb, that no one should ever be ashamed to say that he is a Serb nationalist, but rather, that we should be proud of these facts again. It is good that everything that is possible is announced, if possible, to make up a list of victims in the criminal NATO aggression. And it would be good, too, but that's why we need institutions, institutes, we, let's say, suggested that an institute be formed to analyse all the UN tribunal's verdicts and we're really sorry that it didn't happen in this government meeting, although Minister Sarcevic said that he, as a patriot, would make an effort to make it happen, but here it didn't happen. You know, let's say in this Hague tribunal, in their archives, do you see now that they want to be taken by those from Bosnia and Herzegovina? Of course, they'll take them to destroy them. There's a lot of data there, a lot of names and victims, and not only in these last country wars, but even in World War II, and it's a lot of it, it's millions of pages of evidence that, if it isn't taken in Serbia, it won't take our proposal into consideration, and it doesn't decide that we take over, it really will lose for all time. Then it will be a problem for both these lists and those that you plan to do, which is, we repeat, well, but believe me, we don't have a list of the dead in World War II or World War I, it's always something, I guess, characteristic, unfortunately Serbs, as it's said in the ordinary people of war, we win and then we lose some important battles in peace. We, for example, don't have a list of victims or volunteers of the Thessaloniki Front at all. Last year's anniversary was marked and there is nothing in central Serbia anywhere in any memorial centre or monument to the Thessaloniki fighters. I'm saying it again for personal reasons as a descendant of a Thessaloniki fighter, my grandfather Stevo Radeta was a Thessaloniki fighter and he wasn't the only one, but I'm sorry it wasn't officially written anywhere, and not only his name, but many of those people who, like that, imagine how far they walked, fought for Serbia, for Serbia, for Serbia, for Serbia, won. But we forgot, when I say, then of course I don't mean the SRS, we keep remembering, I mean first and foremost the representatives of government and modern-day fighters. You know very well how much trouble the boys from Koshar have. How many of them are homeless, how many are disabled and out of work. As hard as they are, he's too hard to live. Then when a text appears in some newspaper about an individual fighter from Koshar, then someone finds himself making that man a house, a job or something. That's not how problems are solved. Problems have to be solved systemically, from the root. If we really want to be in the right sense a national Serbian state, respecting all those who live in Serbia, who are not Serbs, respecting all loyal citizens of Serbia, respecting the highest possible level of national minority rights, but we must indeed take care of our own people, of our own history, of our own tradition. On our part, our SRS parliamentary group, we are doing everything in our power to reach out to as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia as possible, and these days we are especially doing this by promoting the book of Vojislav Seselj – "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". Here, I'll do it again, today it's in the white room in Krusevec, on Warm 2 Street at 6:00. We'll see where we'll hold the promotion in Capco, but we'll keep it. Nebojsa Zelenovic is not powerful enough to ban his fascist methods from maintaining that promotion, but he did show today by his decision that he is obviously a follower of Boška Obradovic, and both of them followers of Ljotic. But, well, that's the policy they've chosen and we believe that even though they think of going to the polls, no decent Serb will vote for such fascists and make such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71993	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. On the 16th amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word has Dr Milan Ljubic. Dr. Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71994	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, this law will allow the historic facts about the existence of camps in Belgrade's territory, where a Nazi concentration camp for Jews, Serbs and Roma was held in World War II. The establishment educates the institutional framework and creates organisational, human and material assumptions to cultivate memories of the victims of the Serb people in camps. His preservation and the issue of his memorialization is showing concern for the history and victims of the Old Fair camp. The fairground was a camp where, systematically, from May 1941 to March 1942, Jews were brought in and driven further into the duchess. People who were Serbian citizens were killed there. Each victim is the greatest, but Holocaust is a unique phenomenon in human history. The proposal for a law on the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre in Belgrade envisions the establishment of an institution of culture dedicated to the memory culture of victims and historic events that took place in the former Nazi camp, with the aim of preserving the memory of 11,000 Serbs and 7,000 Jewish and Roma women, children, old and other victims in the former camp. It is about fulfilling the duty and lasting memory and mentioning the victims of the Holocaust, genocide, occupation terror and war crimes. The old fair should be a memorial complex that will remind future generations of the horrors that occurred in this place. It is important that we keep our memory of the Holocaust and thus resist attempts to revise history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71995	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go, colleague Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71996	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment proposing that the deadlines for the adoption of acts on the organisation and systematization of jobs at the Old Fair memorial centre be cut short. With my amendment, I suggest that the scheduled deadline be reduced from 30 days to 15 days in order to get this centre started as soon as possible. As my colleagues have already said, we support the opening of this memorial centre and we are glad that this initiative is being launched. However, we believe that if we are already dealing with the topic of World War II that it is important to remember that in Serbia unfortunately, there were not only Nazi camps where Serbs, Jews and Roma died, but there were also a lot of communist camps for political prisoners who were no less brutal and which we should also remember. Likewise, if we have decided to remember our victims and remind citizens of all the Serb deaths that occurred in the previous years, we should not limit ourselves to the period of World War II because it has already matured and that we are dealing with events of the 1990s. I'm afraid we've not done enough in that field. While in other countries the entire systems are working to prove the alleged genocide of the Serbian side, we are increasingly defending ourselves against various accusations of the international community and neighbouring countries. Unfortunately, in the media, those who claim that genocide took place in Srebrenica are dominant, compared to those who have arguedly disputed these claims. That is why we in the SRS insist and continue to insist that any claim that genocide took place in Srebrenica is considered a criminal offence. We also believe that we should further include in our education system all facts related to wars waged during the 1990s. In our history textbooks, the very theme of the 90s wars is being processed at the end of the school year, on two or three pages, where war was said to have occurred, in which order the republics of the former SFRY seceded, without any details. On the other hand, if you look at the history textbook, i.e. the teaching material on which it is taught in Croatia, you can see that the topic of war in the space of the former SFRY has been processed on dozens of pages, where the subject of alleged abuse of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina by the communist Serbia, then the topic of trying to centralise government in Belgrade, in order to then move on to the description of Serbian rebels Krajina and the uprising on Plitvices, further spread lies about the aggression of JNA to the alleged Croatian army. Then there is a full description of the battlefield, allegedly a genocide of Croats conducted in Ovcar, Vukovar and Split. All these textbooks that are in use in Croatia are quite, let me say, unobstructed, it is clear that the authors were guided by hatred, not by facts when they wrote them. We do not, of course, want our children to learn from the textbook where hatred prevails, but we believe that there are enough historical facts and that there is one quite historical distance that these events can be shown to our children as they really did, rather than to skip the course of teaching material in schools and to raise generations of young people who are unaware of the sufferings of Serbs in the last century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71997	Thank you, Mrs. Whitey. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is known that after the First World War, the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Montenegro was united with the defeated parts of Austro-Hungarian. Also, after World War II, the victorious army reunited with those who struck them. That is how the former Yugoslav republics, created again by the struggle of Serbs, came into existence. And then almost every one of them has been solved since the '90s, and we're saying they're gonna throw out the winners. All republics declared independence and all Serbs living in those republics for hundreds of years declared aggressors. You have a major Serbian aggression in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now in Montenegro, in the province of Serbia and Metohija, where we have come to a crazy situation, for example, all republics could separate from Serbia, from Yugoslavia, Serbia cannot separate from its province either. The province can be separated from Serbia, but Serbia cannot separate from the province, not even one part of it. Let's take these multiethnic nations who fought against great Serb aggression. At the same time, they want to be victims and winners. It's hard to be a victim and a winner in a war. That's very difficult. But there, these former Yugoslav peoples took their hand. I'll name multiethnic Bosnia, so let's see. The headquarters of multiethnic Bosnia, multiethnic Bosnia, had 42% of Muslims before the 1991 conflict, now has 50.1% of Bosniaks, remember, 42% and 50.1%. That's the same thing, they were Muslims, so Clinton solved, well, they can plead whatever they want, but it's about the same people. The Serbs were 34%, now there are 30%. The so-called The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Bosniaks, had 500,000 Serbs, and now there are not even 50,000. In the seat of a multiethnic community, Sarajevo, there were 157,000 Serbs, now there are fewer than Chinese, God forbid there are 10,000. Now I'm asking you myself - who did this ethnic cleansing at Herceg-Bosnia? For example, there is 2.5% in the Muslim-Croatian Federation of Serbs. Maltene statistical error. For example, in Sarajevo you have 22,000 more Bosniaks than you had before the Muslim war. You have 13,000 more Bosniaks in Zenica than there were Muslims before the 1991 conflict. Then who did the ethnic cleansing? So, usually, the aggressor, that's how they declared us, does ethnic cleansing. But when you take statistics, the Serbs are gone, there are fewer. For example, there were millions and 600,000 of them along with the Yugoslavs. Now there's a million and 86 grand. Now I'm asking-- who did the ethnic cleansing in Sarajevo? There were 157 thousand Serbs, now there are fewer than 10,000. Ethically cleaned alive, here, now moving 13,000 graves. Can this be called ethnic cleansing of the dead? Should we once start to appreciate ourselves? Do you think these other Serbians wouldn't do what Franjo Pierce and this unfortunate Marko Mesic did to us? I'm not sure today, Gilas wouldn't have made an alliance with these, just like that Gilas did. This Gilas who only puts his hands in his pockets at minus 20 is, in my opinion, worse than that Gilas, because he took 619m euros, so he took the future to some kids. Do you think they wouldn't make an alliance with one of these? I'm sure these unfortunates would. Well, here it is, with Bosca Obradic. And let me give you an example. This was the profile of Marinika Tepic, until a year ago and a few days ago. It's a profile that breaks the head of a plastered bust with the image of Alexander Vukic. Here, look, let me zoom in. They call it art. This is what other Serbians call art. Here, this photo she put on her profile picture on Twitter, all the way to the motor saws. When they switched to a motor saw and announced they'd cut us with chainsaws, they switched to motor saws. But let's see who she wants to break her head with a mallet. It's a Ustasha method. A man whose entire family almost killed Ustashas, like me. I ask you, is there a difference between today's Serbians and those who called for the bombing of Serbian and Montenegrin cities? Podgorica is leveled with land. You're not the target, I think, 13 times. A vulture ten times. Belgrade several times, on Easter and on the day of the funeral, etc. In that camp, 120 people were killed, prisoners, campers, by Allied, allegedly bombings. Now, these are the allies who pushed us into war, so 15% of Serbs, 0.8% English and 0.2% Americans died. That's why I'm saying, and I'm gonna end up with, say, Doberica Cosic. He says, Serbian brothers, Serbian citizens, he says major conflicts are usually paid by small skins. He says literally like this: "Balkan is the change in the conflict of the great. In the conflict of great scales, this change is paid by the skin of the Balkan peoples." This should be heard by those we have freed, and they now call us the great Serb aggressor. Most of the time, he says, pays for the skins of the Balkan people. And most often it is the skin of the Serbian people. That's why I say we should avoid conflict with anyone, especially ourselves. Serbia is making economic progress and those who want to stop Serbia's economic progress can also wish for conflicts, which we must, however painfully, avoid until the moment we allow only pogrom and some crimes against Serbs who are like "Storm", "Blash" etc. They can't do it again. And everything else, unfortunately, we must endure to ensure Serbia's economic progress. Because the goal of the great may not be just to physically destroy us anymore. Maybe they want some new conflict to bring us back into some struggles, prevent economic progress. That may not be their primary goal. Perhaps their goal is to intimidate this little young people, to escape possible conflicts, and thus to reach the workforce in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u71999	Thank you. On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 20th amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Mrs. Dragash, I'm sorry, your name came up late on the display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72000	I will not, of course, be in debt, with gratitude, of course, for giving me your word, I just want to say that in this debate on this very important law, all the parliamentary groups have actually shown their commitment to this one solution. But compared with the debate here today, I would like to point out that a session of the Diaspora Committee was held to discuss the Commission's missing persons report. I think it's kind of compatible with this story that we've had and where we've met not for the first time, of course, about obstruction, about lack of cooperation from other parties in solving these problems. In a lack of will, and finally, which is the worst and lack of consciousness and recognition that there are Serbian victims and responsibilities which, of course, relate to it. It also points to the seriousness of what we were talking about today, the law that is being adopted these days, and what is still waiting for us in the way of the defense of truth. In modern times, we see that the media war is a special kind of war, and according to that, we have to have adequate answers in the coming time. It is important, I believe, to unite the work in the coming period of several ministries, because this is not only about culture, or memory culture, but also about fighting protection, education, science, so finally, we can say the armies, all forms of work, all forms of committee organisation, commissions and so on, where different human resources are already involved in the collection of data that I should consider in the coming period to be united. Create a unique database and not consider the possibility of how much it costs and find an excuse in that. It's just that if we had passed a law like this before, we might have a different situation in a more recent modern time. In the context of the adoption of this law, I think that what has been happening in recent years is necessary in a consistent and timely manner, and thus we have the task of applying this law when we adopt it, but we also record all the kinds of victims that occurred in Yugoslavia's collapse. It's for the defense of our identity. When it comes to that, in the absence of cooperation from other environments on this subject, I think that there is often a question being asked and considered in public, so what kind of we are, when they won't be with us. I think it's a very wrong thesis, because those who don't have their identity today, and they want to build it, have to take it from the one closest to them and who has it. So let us consider that their addition to their own identity must go through all the procedures available to them, no matter how illegal they are and to the harm of others. Therefore, this law is only the first step in resolving the following issues, or resolving what has happened in recent years. Thanks again. Thank you and the chairman for giving me your word and I welcome you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72001	Always, with pleasure. Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72002	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I would also like to welcome once again the announcement of the adoption of the law on the Old Fair Memorial Centre. I also said this in principle debate, I believe that this will be the beginning of a systematic approach to fostering a culture of memory and that in the next period we will adopt a declaration of condemnation of genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews in the National Assembly, that we will establish the Memorial centre of Serbian victims of the independent state of Croatia, modelled by the Jewish Memorial centre "Jad Vasan" in Jerusalem, that we will work to mark all the sites in the area of the independent state of Croatia, so during World War II, but that we will insist on marking the site of our people who died during the 1990s in the area of the former Yugoslavia. In addition, it is important to pay greater attention to the appointment of streets, squares, the banks of the Sava River regarding the deaths of our people in the NDH and the 1990s. In this context, I would like to mention that the Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today held its 18th session and that we had as the main point of this session the question of missing persons in the 1990s in the area of the former Yugoslavia. The question of missing persons is, not only the most important humanitarian issue, but also the important political issue. According to the Commission for Missing Persons of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr. Odalovic, and according to the International Committee of the Red Cross, they are currently missing 10,035 people in the former Yugoslavia. It is important to stress that more than 2,300 missing persons are Serbian nationalities. Why is this, not only an important humanitarian issue, primarily because of the families themselves, but the political issue of the first order? For reasons we see that in Zagreb, Sarajevo, Pristina, but also in some Western centres, this issue continues to be used in a political context, in the sense that they are being silenced, diminished, and also denying Serbian victims in order to justify a false, pointless and absurd thesis that Serbia and the Serb people were aggressors, that they were waging to God, the conquerive wars of the 1990s, that we were a criminal party, and that apparently Albanians, Bosniaks, Muslims and Croats were innocent victims who were waging some kind of liberating wars. It is one faceless and brutal lie and fiction, and in this context it is important that we work even harder and even more systematically to identify victims of Serbian nationality. We see that over the past few years, we can say in the past ten years, we have one delay in finding, exhumating and identifying Serbian victims. Since the establishment of the BiH Missing Persons Institute, based in Sarajevo, in fact, the Institute has dedicated all its activities to Bosniak victims. Serbian victims are being completely marginalised and they are not the subject of the Institute. It is necessary, and this is the position of the institutions of Republika Srpska, I strongly support them, that the institute or essentially reform itself to have equal attention and activity towards all victims, regardless of national and religious membership or that the institute should be abolished and the missing persons issue returned to the entity level. Almost the same situation is in Croatia, where the competent institutions in Zagreb essentially marginalise Serbian victims and you hear Croatian officials often say that one of the key issues regarding Serbia is the issue of missing persons. But they shut up one obvious truth, or they're dealing with manipulation. They do not say that since 1,950, almost 2,000 missing persons have been identified in Croatia, more than 1,000 of them are persons of Serbian nationality. We must keep repeating to the public that at least it is of equal interest, but the greater interest that we are insisting and saying that more than 50% of the missing persons in the official record in Croatia are missing persons of Serbian nationality. At the end of the session of today's Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, we adopted 14 conclusions that we will forward to all relevant institutions in our country. Among them is a very important conclusion proposed by counterpart Vujadinovic Milimir, which is related to an attempt to manipulate the Missing Persons Institute, namely to announce that 87 unidentified remains will be buried at the Potocari Memorial Centre. It is absolutely unacceptable and inadmissible to bury unidentified faces in any memorial centre or any tomb, because it is an obvious attempt to manipulate the exclusive talk of Bosniak victims. It's a civilization thing that every missing person is exhumed, that every missing person is identified in accordance with the procedures of the International Committee of the Red Cross and that the remains identified by the delivery to the families of the victims. We still have in Croatia a large number of well-known grave sites where the remains of Serbs, which are further identified. We still have a series of morgues in the former Yugoslavia and Zagreb, Osijek, Sarajevo, Zenica, Tuzli, Banja Luka, Pristina, about 4,000 remains. Neither the Sarajevo authorities nor the Zagreb authorities are doing anything to identify and hand over the remains to the victims' families. So the question of missing persons in this context is the most important humanitarian issue, a very important political issue without whose fair resolution is not possible to talk about the full normalisation of relations in the former Yugoslavia, and it is especially impossible to talk about any reconciliation and the establishment of trust among the peoples living in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72003	Thank you, Mr. Linta. The speech is attended by MP Milanka Jevtovic Vukojičić, the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72004	Thank you. Serbia has changed and this is certainly proof of the proposal for a law on the "Old Fair" Memorial Centre. It's been 75 years, but today we're in a position to discuss this law. We have spoken and I expect that in the day of voting, all the MPs here, in this assembly hall, of course, who attend, will support this law for the first time in one dignified way, will mark all those victims, Jews, Serbian and Roma who were killed in the period from 1941 to 1945, in the territory of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia by the Nazi occupier, but also the Ustasha regime. I must also point out that this law for the first time in a clear and unequivocal way indicates that Serbs were victims of genocide in the Independent State of Croatia, as well as victims of the Nazi occupation of Germany. Also, I would like to stress that Belgrade was released on 20 October 1944, and that the Ustasha boot stood tight in Jasenovac until 13 March 1945. Serbia changed when President Aleksandar Vukic arrived at the head of the Republic. Serbia has changed with the government, of course. Serbia has also changed in terms of memory of all the victims, all killed at the Serbian pogrom in the "Storm" action. Serbia has also changed when it comes to marking the day of criminal NATO aggression against Serbia. Serbia also changed when it came to the first time, after 75 years, in Prajani President Aleksandar Vukic laid a crown on a monument, because in this, one of the largest air operations, titled "Halyard", 500 Allied soldiers were rescued in Prajani, a small village near Gornji Milanovac. All things must be remembered, that crime, genocide, and the suffering of the people would never be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72005	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This way I would like to thank Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic and his team for their participation in the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to express hope that we will vote for this bill. Minister, thank you very much. I hope I see you soon. We're moving on with our work. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure of WRITES IN THE CASTER OF IMPLEMENTATION AND WATERS. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Djordje Komlenski, Ružica Nikolic, Milija Miletic, Marijan Risticevic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Despotović, Aleksandar Seselj, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić and Nemanja Sarovic, as well as the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the opinion of the promoters on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The Proposer and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. People's MP George Komlensky wants a word. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72006	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the legislator of this law, Katarina Rakic, for having had absolutely enough width and understanding that this amendment is necessary in this law and that this amendment will allow us to overcome one situation that occurred in 2014, primarily, which is that in the floods of May 2014, both in Obrenovac and in many cities of Serbia, complete archives and documentation have been destroyed. Among other things, these archives and documents include technical documentation on the basis of which building permits are issued or used. So far, legal solutions, as well as the basic proposed solution, have not opened up opportunities and space to allow our citizens, who because of the fact of more force, to virtually come into the situation that they cannot enroll and register their facilities, to do so in a far simpler and safer way. This overcomes one legal gap that existed, which is that, in practice, for those facilities for which a building permit was issued, they could not, I say, be entered, entered, even through the process of legislation, because the previous condition for it was that the authority responsible for issuing the certificate, on which the entry of data on the facility or parts of the facility is made, compared the object with the technical documentation, concludes that there are derogations there, and then one surrounding procedure, through a united procedure, takes place in a way and enables citizens to exercise their rights. This goes way beyond that. It will, of course, be accompanied by appropriate documentation, such as a report on the founding state which must be drawn up in accordance with the standards provided for by the Law of Law. This means that even these citizens will not be privileged in relation to those who are going through the legal process, as well as the findings and opinions of the experts, of course, provided that the records preserve at least the fact that such a building or use permit has once been issued. This would really even the practice, equal opportunities for all citizens who want to do this. I once again thank the promoter for his understanding. I think this is a serious step that will certainly help the citizens of Obrenovac, as well as many other municipalities, that those problems they could not solve in the previous four years, are now successfully and legally guaranteed in a guaranteed way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72007	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word is proposed by Katarina Rakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72008	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I would also like to thank you, Mr. Komlenski, for proposing such an amendment. I certainly agree with you that it will contribute to a better text of the law itself, and later in practice and application. I must admit that when we passed this bill, or these amendments and additions to the bill, we didn't predict something like this. Thank you for helping us help people and putting that back in the frame of this amendment proposal and supplementing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72009	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72010	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have, by this intervention, specified the subject of this law and the way in which the property is entered, i.e. the entry of the land, the facility, as well as the specific part of the facility. A member of the 5th basic law has been misdefined, and in particular the part relating to the type of object or specific parts of objects without use and building permit, that is, if all the conditions are not met, the possible source of corruption and in such cases, if the data on the object or its specific part is entered only on the basis of the embodies of geodetic works, is precisely something that is controversial in this article, which is a potential source of serious corruption, and it is obvious that by bribery, i.e. money, such a situation can be solved, i.e. the registration of immovable property is carried out. If we take into account that this is all under the authority of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, then there is no doubt that money can be easily solved, and permission, whether building, whether useful, enrolment in the catastran etc. We are witnessing that more people, her closest associates, have been arrested in the main ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic in the past month for abuse of official status but also her relationship with them. We Serbian radicals pointed out in time who Zorana Mihajlovic is, enlightened all the affairs she was involved in, from Bechtela, and further we pointed out that she was working openly against the government of the Republic of Serbia, against the state of the Republic of Serbia and demanded that she be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72011	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72012	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would firstly like to thank the legislator, Katarina Rakic, who in this way has given support to all of us in Serbia to speed up and facilitate the entry into the immobility cadastre and everything that was necessary and necessary. I can remind all of us what it's been like so far, that 24 hours was a deadline when it comes to getting in writing from the post office, to turn there, but this now extends to 15 days, and that's a big deal for all our people. We are witnessing that there are many major problems in the entire territory of Serbia because of the insufficient number of employees. People are doing a lot of work, so this way they can do anything electronically that they can't do so far. Dear colleague Katarina, you have really proposed a law per measure for all of our Serbs, for all of us in Serbia, so that we can build this in the best way and it is normal to make it a little easier for our people who work in the Catastres in this way. Once again, I will vote in favour of the bill, although this amendment of mine has not been accepted, it is with understanding, because it is a need and you have explained it all, not to repeat it. Otherwise, I repeat once again that the law is written properly. Thank you again for passing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72013	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72014	We thought, Mrs. Rakic, that there was an obvious failure here, not with you, but in the basic draft of the law. This item 5 does not mention objects that have not been authorised, and there are many. Geodetic elaborates and works must also be applied to such facilities under the Law on Planning and Construction. This is the basis for determining any plot, any beginning of the works, because if it were not, there would be numerous damages and, after all, not only for an object, which, because of various circumstances, could not God allow it to collapse, if it does not exist, but also because of the fact that it also endangers the object located in its immediate vicinity. I have also consulted with geodesy engineers, and they agree with this attitude that even that object that hasn't been given the permission yet, and some may never get it if they don't meet all the conditions prescribed by law, that geodetic elaborate must have because it is influenced by many factors. If you are, say, and everywhere is happening in urban areas, so is my native Kragujevac, that old or not so old houses, but under the various pressures of these mobsters investors, not all of them are, of course, but some are. You have cases, unfortunately, and with the tragic outcome of individuals who don't want to surrender their property in such a way, because if someone agrees, the two of them, and the third one doesn't, under pressure, have to do it, he simply says – I won't. You now have a situation to have some ground floor family house that was built in the 1960s, '70s, and next to two buildings with the highest floor coefficient. What could put that house at risk until these buildings get their use of permission? If not properly tested, all those factors that could potentially compromise that housing unit. The citizens need to know that, and I suppose you know, as there is a cataster of immovableity, so the catastra has to be recorded on every plot next to topographic maps, all of the videos that exist and elaborated for waterways, for possibly groundwater, because there have been such cases that, at once, it was the most pronounced in the town of Kragujevac, because it wasn't, at the end of the building. The entire perimeter of the city is populated so that people only later entered the legalisation process, and legalisation is not finished, but is also a matter under what conditions and how people are going to implement it. And then all of a sudden all of a sudden, the wall of the house pops up, it comes to this crack and the house collapses. At one time, a colleague, Kovacevic, was a Serbian radical, so we visited such settlements and such houses together, but believe that it exists. Here, and he has personal experience and as far as these constructions and these things are concerned. So everyone who goes into construction has to commit to it, to know that by the time he meets all the legal requirements, the entire lab, maybe there's a geodesy engineer here, he's got to own it, and then there's no mistake. You know what, we've come into a situation that, here, I've mentioned more than once, that there's not a lot of advertising, and through the village where my father is from, it's the village of Katrga, which is next to the Moorzaevci, next to the town of Mrcajevci, because you know, the town on that road that's now the Ibari highway, and we're down by the river, to start building this Moravian corridor. When it comes to traffic, road, tunnels, bridges, there must also be geodetic elaborate, and not that it's a risky issue, but we have just mentioned, that it will eventually increase the 800m euros Zorana paid more to Bechtel, be sure because of the fact that it is in that and in the neighbouring village of the Morava oblivus, because of this mob’s gravel and various other circumstances, above all natural factors, changed its course. The erosion of the riverbed is such that even the way it's made, until it gets used permission, it has to have a lab. In that sense, it was this bill of ours, because we don't see how different once, actually for some period of time than who knows how many years to sort this area out. I'm gonna end up with something you might not know. You didn't have much, personally, to defend this director, Katastra Draskovic, but it is well known that a man with millions of amounts, and they say that even goes up to a million euros, paid for the recording of certain parcels and areas in the region of the Republic of Serbia, not that it is not usable, but those are the videos, as experts say, which could not be used for what they were ordered. This should be checked and especially because of the fact that he was placed in that place in a way that was more than the pressure of certain, not to mention them here because they are marginal, political factors. A man like that can't run Serbia's cadastre. Isn't it at least suspicious that a certain period is going on and he's replacing the mayor in that municipality? Here, I'm surprised, I think the last such case was in Chajetina, before that was in Kragujevac, some from Jagodina came, and then it was changed here, so the former director of the catastrophe was transferred to Kragujevac. It's a completely unsettled situation. You said, colleague Rakic, that it would be much easier for all citizens and natural and legal persons to have their solution in the post office for 15 days, because they won't have to go there. Well, do you think they were so burdened by explaining where the solution was? They lie to you if they tell you. No, it was the fact that they weren't doing their job. Later on, I will have opportunities on the second amendment, but just to tell you that in certain cities, and who knows how many such cities, here I know specifically about the town of Kragujevac, the property that has been expropriated from some individuals taken when certain traffic stations were made in the city, in the 1960s, the 1970s, then you were probably not born, or already in the late 1970s, if you are, not listed in those units, these parcels, as property, are still being carried on by those people who are more, unfortunately, not alive, and their descendants have no idea that certain parcels are being led to them. So you believe that's how it is, and that people today who go into certain jobs have to come and do the work of the catastra. That's not normal. It's for a shift, so he, after all this stuff we've brought on him, if he were normal and had to, he'd resign, but he won't, because it's those Draskovics. I don't insult everyone who calls themselves that, but that clan of that family.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72015	Thank you. The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72016	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. On this occasion, I would like to thank both Mrs Jovanovic and all those who have submitted the amendments. First of all, for one reason, which is that I don't see any amendments here today with the words "expunge" and there's no text, and that's what I've had the chance to hear from you before, when you're writing "wipe" you don't like the bill at all, and then you delete the whole bill and you want everything to stay the same. So I want to thank you and just go back to this last sentence. From everything you've said, you say chaos is in the catastrus, and I really agree with this bill, and it's just one step in the way of catastra reform, to try all this chaos that we're... I really agree, and I don't think anyone here today in the O.R. has any objections about that, but maybe we have an objection to which way to go to solve all these problems. What you wanted with this amendment, I think it's already written in the text itself, it's just a little played with... We can read it and comment. Thus, in the very text of the law, it says: “The data on the facility are entered on the basis of elaborates of geodetic institutions, works and data on the facility from the use of the permit, i.e. building permits, if only a building permit is issued for the facility. ” You say: “or building permits, unless a useful permit has been issued for the facility. ” I don't see that difference. In principle, I think that's what it is, and that's exactly what the newspaper is, that I'm going to have to check this lab from now on, that's what you said, and we're introducing it, not only on the basis of the legislation solution, but also have to contribute to the embodies of geodetic works. I would go back to what you mentioned how many roads are being done, that all roads, of course, will have to go through the cadastre and everything about roads and expropriations and a lot of things and, of course, your colleagues said maybe chaos in the catastra is bigger than ever, and I have to repeat that more than ever, and maybe because of that. What I would also like to mention now is data from the Balkan Centre for Regulatory Reform. These are data that speak of how much reforms in the disaster have progressed so far and what they may have done in the future, if we continue through reforms, they can bring good results. Let's say, if we take this yearly catastro, we have 144,522 demands, and the largest number of demands is sales contracts from a natural person, and that's 75,000 demands. So far, catastra reforms have saved 2,722,484 euros. If we continue with this reform, it is planned to save 3,774,536 euros. So if we continue this course, which is directly the money of the citizens and the economy of Serbia. So these figures speak the path of reform, and which way will it go if we continue to reform the catastra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72017	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72018	I don't understand what you're applauding from that place, Mr. Marinkovic, you're still the chairman. (President: I have some rights too, I guess? No, you do, but it's really small and degutant. When an international delegation comes or so, that's fine. Now, as far as this is concerned, I really don't want to say it's a quantity of ignorance, but you've been in parliament long enough to meet, and you could have asked Mr. Martinovic, with our principled attitude when it comes to erasing a member of the law. You're probably following what was recently considered in the National Assembly, which is a lex specialis, a special law for certain infrastructure facilities, and we said that the Expropriation Act has to settle that area, whether it's a metro, whether it's a railway, whether it's any route. One law, like in every normal state, should apply to everyone. I don't think you understand here, because they seem to be similar lines. In practice it happens, it was our intensity, that someone gets a building permit without building that facility at all, and when they get a building permit and a plot he has to... You said I came from this catastrian community, so you joked here, you just didn't say where you came from. I come from Kragujevac, but in that catastrian municipality there are, now not to say Kragujevac two, but I think so, the buildings that began to be built 20 and more years ago and today they are not built. That's all we wanted to add, and you say, it's written like that. No, and someone on the other side made the building, and they don't have a license. It was no problem at all to accept this amendment. I don't know who advised you, probably the Ministry, not to accept it, but well, that's their business. Now we're coming to the point why it's still such an unsettled situation in the catastrophe. You said some of your colleagues last time - oh, well, there aren't enough people. You say the same thing about inspection supervision in the ministry, whose law you're proposing now, and also in other ministries. Here you go, gentlemen, hire people. We've got so many geodesy engineers, buildings, people who are willing to do that job on the ground, they're going to get rid of all these shortcomings. Is it normal for someone to... Here, I'll give you an example of the Zemun municipality when we came to power in 1996. Since 1996, Mrs. Radeta, perhaps hers, has been modest, not pleasant to brag about, has been head of the Zemun municipality's Property Authority. Every plot, every pasture, every morning and not only that, Mrs. Rakic, is listed, but in these places there are magnificent settlements – Altina, Busije, Blue Horizons etc. It was so well done that your ministry, led by Zoran, can only dream. She is ignorant and apparently, apart from Mrs Damnjanovic, who has passed several ministries, has gathered the ignorant and the rich and the criminals, because Poledica has yet to account.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72019	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 1 refers to Article 5 of the existing law, and it speaks of objects that do not possess either construction or use permission. Of course, there are many such objects in Serbia and it is not this one, but all the authorities that have ruled Serbia so far. But we have to make a difference here and we have a few specific cases. Let's say we also have objects that have a temporary permit and now the question is whether they're treated as objects that have a license or objects that don't have a license. We also have buildings that have a building permit, but objects with overruns are from those dimensions listed there in the building permit. I asked my amendment to make in all such cases a clear and precise note or notation, as it stands there in the bill, where all the data relating to the existing object will be contained, and of course they are relevant to this object and the records in Catastro and in all other cases concerning this. As far as Katastra is concerned, this law will not contribute anything in particular and solve things that have been accumulated in this area for years, even for decades, there are many problems here. We still have cases, unfortunately, less than before, that two owners are listed on various facilities, that one and the same facility is sold several times. This is especially true since public notebooks have appeared, or notaries since they have been doing so, so that certain abuses are still present. Of course, there's less than there was, let's say 10 years ago, we have to admit, but that's a thing that hasn't been eradicated yet, and it burdens both Katastar and our general citizens and relations between the parties, or people who have, let's say whose interests overlap with a particular plot and a certain object. And, unfortunately, I have to admit, let's say, things in this area, the Republic of Serbia, are lagging behind with some former republics of the former SFRY. It lags behind Croatia and Slovenia and even Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this thing has to be done a little more seriously to get things in order, as much better as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72021	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72022	Thank you. The answer for which this amendment has not been accepted, indeed, shows that not yet arrested associates Zorana Mihajlovic have been written. The amendment is not accepted because the notation is not a fact, but by noting the fact, etc., that I am not reading any further, I will confuse anyone who listens to this, but this is just to show how unserious your colleague, Rakic, have, I said, not yet arrested Zorani's associates have done to you. What is important for this bill, even for this amendment? This law was passed by you two years ago. In two years, you change it four times. In those two years, Katastar has not worked for more than a year, a completely paralysed state in the field of books, in the area of catastra. Why did that happen? Because this director of Zoran's who's still doing it, and now I'm going to quote or paraphrasing a colleague of yours in power -- he didn't want to work because he's used to taking money, so he's waiting to get his money back, so they didn't bring him money, so he's a thief, so he's a criminal, and all of those attributes that you gave him, not personally, but one of your colleagues, our colleagues, that man is still the director of Katastra. The fact that Katastar has not worked in Serbia for more than a year has literally not worked for Katastar for more than a year or almost a year is one of the proofs of our claim that Zorana Mihajlovic is a foreign mercenary in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because such obstruction of the state can only be done by someone who is a foreign agent in his own government, because not the work of Katra for a year, it is a terrible obstruction of the state. I guess everybody knows what "catastre" means. Therefore, for those years it was not possible to enter the purchase contracts, it was not possible to enter the settlements, it was not possible to enter the replacement contracts, it was not possible to enter the gift contracts, so nothing was possible to enter into Katastar. I listened here when you spoke in the principle debate, so then you showed your colleagues that you weren't really well prepared for what you represented on behalf of your parliamentary group, and you signed it yourself, it doesn't matter. You've brought up some things here that have nothing to do with the real, or needy knowledge in this area, but every time you've said that, when we asked how your proposal was on the agenda, how before Cankov, Gordana Komic, etc., you said at least five times in the day - here you go, get 126 votes, and then put on the agenda whatever you want. You have once again shown that you don't really care about parliamentary democracy. This force, of 126 green buttons, shows only how the congregation majority terrorises the opposition in the National Assembly. We are the opposition party who submitted the draft law on executive procedure and security, and we supported this proposal with more than 100,000 signatures from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you who say you are doing everything in the interests of the Serbian citizens, in fact you say -- we don't care about more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia, because they supported some radical proposal, without giving God Gordana Comic or yours who passed here without any signature of citizens, then that would be quite all right. So don't brag with 126 votes for, because that's a bad message. One hundred and twenty-six green buttons, counterpart Rakic, may vote for the country to be a flat panel, but the country remains round after all. So, you make sure, first of all, that as a MP, you have to show that you are ready for a democratic dialogue, that if you say so, you said two days ago that you would be happy to have every MP present some bill. So why don't you show that happiness that voting for one of the 20 SRS proposals or at least for the one that backed more than 100,000 signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This bill is otherwise imprecise, suggesting the possibility of corruption, and how did you show that you did not know the essence of Katra? You, I apologize for saying, are not you but one of your colleagues, that colleague said – you do not know what we found in Catastro in 2012. Well, you know, there's something you need to know when you say something like that. In 2012, he was in the phase of establishing such a service. With the network of courts, only 2010 was the jurisdiction of enrolment in land books moved to Katastar. Until then there were land-based library departments of municipal courts. There were "dn" solutions. Based on these solutions, there was an enrolment in land books. There was a collection of documents containing all these documents contained here, among other things in this article. Yes, colleague, I don't know what you don't understand, but this is how it is. So, in 2012, when you became the masters of Serbia, Katastar was just beginning to be what is under these laws of yours. As far as we're concerned, it should never have stopped with the land book, but it doesn't matter at this point. It might be important once we change the network of courts and courts' jurisdiction, because what's done right now is pretty bad, not to say disastrously. So this law won't do any good. Nothing positive will be done. What you predicted was that you could enroll in cataster facilities, those from 1947, 1948, when the first regulations were passed from the construction area, that's fine. But you should have predicted something like that only for buildings that were built without construction permits. The only way to really legalize, as you would say, the mutilators, these more than a million objects that were built without a building permit, is to register on the basis of the assurance of local self-government, as you have here predicted for old objects and to register any object for which no judicial dispute has been entered. So wherever there is no court dispute over land, the facility needs to be entered and legalized once and for all. But no, you're shooting from the plane, I don't know where I come from either, and how this cadastre of yours has other information every year about the number of illegal objects, every time the law is passed, you draw a line and you say – everything that was built after that will be destroyed, will not be legalized, and from that day to today, here you go to Belgrade, go to everyone who lives in their municipalities, you'll wonder how many objects are nothing. No one touches them, again they'll be on a plane or not, but only this catastra director, whom one of your colleagues says is a thief and a criminal, issue a certificate and based on that certificate will be registered, and people who want to work legally, normally and regularly, will continue to live in fear. When Zoran's five years will pass when she announced the laws, it's in two years, that she'll destroy everything that's not legalized by then, and no object is legalized because, for example, in Belgrade, you've been walking objects from municipalities to the city and coming back from the city to the municipality, there's simply no possibility of any legalisation being carried out, and time is running. Comrade Rakic, don't show any anxiety, you'll probably come after me, so you'll explain everything to us, to convince me that I don't know anything, freely, but when you jump like that and show your anxiety, it's just telling me that I'm absolutely right, that you're not really ready for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72023	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72024	We don't know anything, we don't do anything, I just don't know where in Serbia today almost 54 thousand construction sites. We don't know anything, we don't do anything, we just don't know how in October last year we issued 2,410 building permits. We don't know anything, so I'm the only one who doesn't know how we got to the ninth place of Duing Business List of the World Bank to measure it, means not us, but the World Bank, and in 2015 we were 186, so there's no worse, in just four years we skipped 177 positions. That's not what we say. That's what the World Bank says. We know nothing, and we pass laws that save millions of euros to citizens and the economy of Serbia. But, behold, let us not know anything, but this law, which is on the agenda today, will be voted on Monday and after eight days of its entry into force, Serbian citizens will have the opportunity not to pursue their solution from mail to catastra, to wait for the postman to run in the mail and receive their solution within 24 hours, to register their property. They will have the opportunity to go to the nearest post office within the next 15 days, and we all know that almost every major village today has mail, to take their own solutions, not to create crowds and chaos in the catastres. Well, maybe we were wrong. Maybe these people aren't the ones who create chaos and traffic in the catastrophe, but I'm just going to give you an example. So what I'm talking about, 90% of Serbian citizens, parties who have submitted their demands to solve certain things, have taken their solution back to the catastro. By law, it's impossible for them to take him immediately into the catastrophe. What does that mean? So, they were waiting for that solution to go back to the cadastre, so they could go up there and pick it up. I said, on average, we have 177,000 items a year in the cataster, 90 percent going back to the cadastre. Well, I don't know how many people to work on these monasteries, and it's working about 2.5 thousand people on 170 municipalities in Serbia, they can't achieve chaos. What I said, and I'm going to do it again, I wish that one day it wasn't me, not you, none of Serbia's citizens go to the catastrophe, that all we have from home, end up with our computer, that we don't see anyone, that no one at all can be corrupt. You mentioned earlier that Borko Draskovic, director of the RGZ, moved the directors, i.e. the chiefs of the catastra. It's the only way he might be able to prevent corruption. There's no other way, he can't fire those people. The second thing, I asked you, here you are, and now, if you know it exists somewhere, so report it, you'll help both us and those people. Report, don't know without hiding. Why are you doing this? You will help the citizens of Serbia. Here, I had people this morning who came from the Zemun municipality. You know what they told me? Help us, we have 50 requests before us, in such arranged Zemun. Well, it's not the gentlemen of us. It's from you who've run the country's assets well, so now we don't know what to do. 50 demands. You've done quite a lot of work on the plots. It's all on one plot. People can't even register today, there's no way. Why don't you help these people now? Why don't you help now, why don't you admit that he's the biggest... I'm from Grocque, Lestan. Here, let me tell you, it's not the biggest problem in Kaludierica, there's Zemun. You used to brag about taking care of it. If you've arranged well, let's now help these people settle their assets, because they have a real problem with raising mortgages and with anything, they can't move, there are 50 applications in front of them. You say, "We don't know anything, we don't do anything, it's all something we've ruined." And we have brought Serbia to the ninth position of the World Bank, namely Duing Business List of the World Bank, brought to Serbia 54 thousand sites, and you are here telling us that we know nothing to do. Okay, maybe we'll have a chance to learn something else, maybe we'll have a chance to work on our mistakes, but here, let's be that every change of law is a correction of mistakes, but I said, the worst thing is that bad laws are in force, there are laws that can't be applied. It's mostly 2009 laws. I'm really not against the laws changing. Indeed, when I said that I, as a Parliament of People, passed the law, I said that we all have the right to do so here. Yeah, that's what I said. So if you're quoting me, repeat what I said. So I think that any new amendment and addition of the law can only improve the situation, not bring it back, not work by bad laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72025	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72026	Let's break up with that ninth place and that public deception. That place pays. The World Bank pays it to make it easier to borrow credits, as loans are taken from that bank for construction, infrastructure. (Katarina Rakic: Why didn't you pay for it? Where did we get the money? My colleague, without anxiety please, just slowly, we have time, we'll talk as much as you want, just without the nerves. So, as far as the questions go, why don't we report someone to arrest him. We talked here about Zorana Mihajlovic and her crime several times. As a result, the prosecution really seemed to listen, and then they arrested this Jeftic for "The Railway", Miroljub, who said Zorani was giving the money he was taking, and her husband, and then they arrested Polica. Then Polica Zorana was able to free him and wait for him to take the official car to pick up the man from custody, so that the man under criminal charges would sit at the secretary of state again. Now, we're hoping, after this debate, that the D.A.'s office will get a little chatty and a little cadastre, and then the one from the catastra will turn up. We hope that happens. You say - what are the crowds in the catastrophe? You know what? Because the catastre doesn't work for a year, so the poor people come, knock on the counter, knock on the door – hello, please, when this catastre will work, when something will be done on my request. Where are the crowds from? They're not busy because they come for solutions. They won't wear mailmen, they'll wear... So how are they going to get a solution to someone in a village where there's no fixed phone, where the foster homes, where they have buy-in contracts, where they have inheritance contracts, etc., how are they going to use e-mail? You said here two days ago that we laughed when Ana Brnabic said the foundation of this government's work would be digitization. We didn't laugh at it, we said that we support it, but that it must be taken care of at what point, when and where it is possible, that it must go gradually. And then we laughed when Ana Brnabic admitted she was drunk and the police stopped her. You're a little confused. We weren't laughing at digitization, God forbid. So, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72027	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72028	Please, take my time off, just two more minutes, I need to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72029	I won't take it from you. We'd better take another chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72030	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72031	Thank you. Don't worry, there's time, you know, alone, enough. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. At its session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta, and thank you for your understanding just now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72032	Katastar, among other things, has an obligation to make land and re-marry, as well as the purpose and re-use of land on the ground. And you did great, of course, joking when I say excellent, changing the purpose of the land on the move of the Moravia Corridor. There you are, your cadastre turned the building land there into agricultural land so that people would receive a small fee in the expropriation process. The charges are on the line. Everything from the budget will have to be paid, because every citizen, every owner who is thus damaged in the process of expropriation, will receive a serious fee in court and we support them in this, people must not be damaged, and who will damage the budget, who will answer for it afterwards. As for Busi, the Blue Horizon, the Grmovac, the works of Batajnica, the works of Ugrinova, the works of Altina, we are very proud of the Serbian radicals that that year and those years when the Serbs fled and fled under the Ustasha knife came to Serbia, which we in Zemun accepted as much as the Zemun could accept. And we're, come on, keep that story from before noon, don't change now. (Katarina Rakic: solve their problem. Please don't throw away, don't be nervous. The problem was supposed to solve the cadastre. We sold 5,000 building plots. Each village has 12m wide streets, like the avenues, on one side and on the other side of the green area. Each house was built by the geometrically coming and establishing a construction line, all below the finish line. That's what these settlements look like. We built, we brought water and electricity and asphalt to the center of every village, and we succeeded as much in four years as we were in power. After us, the yellow ones came, so we are here in the Assembly, for three days the Assembly couldn't continue the session until we acted to join the electricity in Grmovac, because everything was already paid, because it was done by a power line, etc. These yellow solutions are these solutions, 5,000 solutions I personally signed, and I'm very proud of it, those yellow ones made it to the Constitutional Court, all instances passed, and thanks to the question, all the solutions were legal, all the solutions were in accordance with the regulations of that time. The one who came after, if they weren't yellow, then you could have, if you were shooting the plane, you wouldn't have left out Busier, Thunderbolt and Blue Horizont. This means that the cadastre had to send its geometers to the ground, to form building plots based on such a perfect condition on the ground, and to allow people to register beautifully. Do you know what you're not doing? Because it's more than 5,000 households and because it's similar to these employees for a certain period of time. Radicals gave it to you, you built houses, and now we can't solve it for you, but vote and we'll go to the next government. Now, it's a policy for you, and let's be ashamed of it, because of these people in Busia, Grmovac, Blue Horizon, Altini, part of Batajnica, Petrovčić, Progar, Surcin and Ugrinova, everywhere we sold these parcels, sold for the price exactly how much it cost the municipality of the plot, people were buying building plots from six to seven acres for about 1,000 marks then, we were happy and where Serbia was lucky to have done so, there would be no Serbs in those collection centers, there would be no Serbian landscape without roofing over its head. We're proud of it, and you're just avoiding us for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72033	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Katarina Rakić, who proposes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72034	Thank you. I'll do it for a while. Mrs. Radeta, I don't know how you can say this - we helped people, and you put them in trouble. You could have made the highway there, it's not at all a dispute, you were giving someone else's land. I don't know what you're boasting about right now. Why didn't you finish the job? It's your fault now that people don't have or whose land or whose houses they are, nothing. They only have 50 pending demands before them. That's what I'm talking about. You are now telling us here: behold, we have made for them boulevards. Who slows it down? You built it on someone else's land, so anyone could. I don't understand what you're talking about at all. I say, "People have no solution." People were at my place this morning with over 50 demands ahead of theirs. What about these people? (Alexander Seselj: Let them go to the Catastre.) Let them go to the Catastre? So the catastre didn't put them in trouble. It's not the catastre that put them in trouble. I'm just telling you, you could've packed it up nicely then. The catastro is now being choked by these problems. Don't tell a story that really doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72035	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72036	It's a shame those people were at your place, 'cause you obviously don't know that. So, I said, let me repeat, every solution was through the lawsuit, the review came to the Constitutional Court, and every solution is in accordance with the law. How can you say we sold other people's land? It's such a lie that it's really amazing. The land we sold to people is municipal land. In Busia, the specific land was the agricultural goods "Progress" from Stara Paz. We paid that company exactly as much money as they asked for, and they bought that money the same amount of land in Pazova, restored the agricultural machinery, paid a few back-up salaries. We gave documentation to transfer this land to the municipality, so that it would be transferred from the municipality to those people who had received the solution because they were not contracts, then there were solutions to the allocation of building land, or agricultural land. But, you know, sometimes you should know something, not just say, imagine, say – you were selling other people's land. What are we, thieves? We thieves, right? (Catarina Rakic: I didn't say that. ) Please, the thieves are in your ranks, the thief is the Zoran you represent here, the thief is Poledica, the thief is Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72037	Mrs. Radeta, don't be so hard on your qualifications. (Katarina Rakic: You yourself have given yourself an epithet. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72038	My fellow vice president, what's the name in your environment of someone who's being held in custody because, what, stolen by the state, stole some millions of railroads? That's what we say - a thief. Excuse me, if you have any other expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72039	It is not an expression, but simply Mrs. Rakic did not express herself that way. She didn't really qualify you that way, and you're their whole MP group. I don't think it's correct. She was very correct indeed. She just said we were selling someone else's. But she didn't explicitly say, you know. Let's move on. National MP Nejko Jovanovic reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72040	I thank the chairman. Given one really constructive debate, in principle, when we were in principle discussing this law, that is, the draft law, I pointed out several facts that I considered to be of great importance to the legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am very glad that the bill promoter recognized my suggestions as extremely well-intentioned and qualitative in relation to the existing, or proposed text of the law. In this regard, I express both respect and gratitude for understanding the improvement of the quality of the law that has certainly been done by the Committee accepting what we have seen as good in the debate, which has been done with the Committee's amendment, which now makes the law in practical application far more effective and far more legally protected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, legal protection is now enjoyed not only by creditors from the so-called so-called ". obligations relating to damages committed to creditors by illegal actions of debtors or by the actions of debtors which implies the availability of assets which are subject to enforcement or may be subject to enforcement and then trustees remain without the possibility of charging their claims. This was not disputed when it comes to the scope of this law, but the promoter accepted and understood the need to expand the circle of the person, i.e. that the same kind of legal protection now has both creditors and bankruptcy. Therefore, both in terms of bankruptcy and in terms of out-of-quota dissuasion, the credentials are now protected because by notifying an appropriate observation, the relevant burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have the right to protect against all those who do so in full legal action or other legal actions which can lead to adverse consequences which have both cause and legal interest to seek, above all, legal protection. What is important is the fact that you have understood and accepted other well-intentioned suggestions, which is to include notes in some way systematization, i.e. norms and what has been missed, and these are not only contracts relating to marriage partners, i.e. marriage contracts or premarital contracts, but also contracts that regulate property acquired during the duration of the marriage, i.e. marriage flows and both marriage partners. Of course, this kind of observation also has great legal significance, as it leads to a far greater degree of legal certainty for those to whom the remark applies. Indeed, in this direction a sincere appreciation for understanding the need to supplement the law in this part. It remains what we have agreed to, but it is obvious that we cannot go beyond the limits of the bill, and this implies a further struggle to contribute to new legal proposals something that implies the normisation of what has not been normized so far. Above all, to put a far greater accent on a criminal suit which, as a legal institute, had its role and importance in legal traffic and in the legal system, but in any case, it is much more important to dedicate it in a future period. Now, in order to avoid demagogy or hypocrisy, we are aware of the problems with the disaster, we are aware of the problems generated by the cataster, but we also need to invite citizens to pay attention that they are obliged to protect themselves and that so-called. The personal responsibility of the citizens contributes to setting up the catastre in a far better way. Why am I saying this? In 2010, the Law on public perception of immovableity entered into force, i.e. putting public insight into immovableity in the Republic of Serbia. At that time, public insights were made available to citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the long-term to report to the organisation units of the local self-government building cadasar services, to put objections to the factual state, or the situation of the catastra. The number of citizens who were expected to respond has not responded, which unfortunately left the catastran state in the opposite situation, so no comparison of the factical state and the cadastrian state has been performed. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia suffer this aftermath today, but we must admit, I am coming from myself and from all of us together that in this sense we must assume one part of our personal responsibility. What I have pointed out in the principle debate is that I would like to focus once again, to once again strengthen our awareness of the obligation to increase the level of legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, in this sense, to appeal to you who can influence the cadastre, that all public data, given the principle of reliability in the public book, be provided as available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, one shift was made by this law. I don't think that's entirely because that contract that was supposed to be closed long ago with the lawyer is missing. Lawyers as party attorneys must have access to all catastra data, as these catastra data are used in court proceedings, are used in the direction of protection of citizens as parties, not only in proceedings before the court but also in proceedings before other state authorities. And if lawyers and lawyers as attorneys do not have access to these data in an adequate way, which means effectively, quickly, precisely, and what is most important professional provision of legal services in terms of the availability of these data that I have spoken about, then it is logical that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot enjoy the degree of legal certainty they deserve and need to be provided by the state. I think that, in this direction, the next legislative proposal, I hope, perhaps, to supplement your law that you have proposed, or which we are discussing today, should indeed include these facts and these circumstances, to systemise them, to norm them, and thus to show the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our countries our absolute readiness for their legal certainty and to provide them with this legal certainty. Of course, the lawyers in this part make a huge contribution, given that, even in providing free legal assistance to citizens of that category, those structures that enjoy this free legal aid from the aspects of the provisions of the law on the provision of free legal aid, they must have absolute security when it comes to the application of the law, or the law that you have proposed, but also when it comes to the laws that we are likely to discuss very soon. All of this I've pointed out is extremely well-meaning, it's going to cover everything with this new law. I thank you once again for understanding and contributing to the acceptance of suggestions, of course, and criticism, because I was not in any way under any reservation not to bring it out, criticism. On the contrary, I have brought forth what is critical and I am glad that it is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72041	Thank you. He has the word, Proposer, Katarina Rakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72042	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Also, I thank you, Mr Jovanovic, far from having us critically grasped it, and you can see that exactly as we talked about the day in the principle debate and did, now that the amendments are in question and we have integrated everything you have proposed, and it has not come out of the text of the text covering the bill itself, in the voting day will be found as an integral part of the law. Also, I want to thank you for having understood from your very speech that you accept that the laws should be changed if there is a better solution, and you specifically stated that lawyers should be, and that is already proposed, I mean from the next 2021, but, well, let your proposal come early, but certainly this is exactly what I was talking about, progress in our legislation and that the worst thing is to have bad laws in force and work under bad laws. When we talk about the notes, I would just go back to, for me, not the bad thing, but the worst thing that happened years ago and it was definitely the product of the 2009 law, and that's the record that Catastre had to make, more specifically, and it was referring to the notes of the lawsuit, and it didn't know who the people who had the right to be enrolled were, more precisely, entitled to file charges that you're making on the land. We made the journey by bringing authentic interpretation on May 15, 2017, and now it is authentic interpretation and integrated into the very text of the law, and I'm just going to explain here what is concrete. Under the 2009 Law, practically anyone who brought a lawsuit to a specific plot had an obligation to file the suit as a note. Catastra never checked if whoever filed the lawsuit had any real right to your plot. That means, if you wanted to sell the house, it was announced that you were selling it, you opened the cadastre tomorrow, and you see, someone filed some kind of lawsuit without you even knowing it. And what was going on? It's often that people have received e-mails, letters, mail, yes, well, they can withdraw that lawsuit they don't even know where it's from, with a certain amount of compensation. That's what we had on certain plots where people wanted to build buildings, or to buy apartments, suddenly some who filed charges appeared, allegedly saying that previous owners owed them something and citizens at the time, let's say, if they took out a loan from the bank, the bank was withdrawing all the funds, or, if they applied, of course, the bank didn't want to grant a loan if there was any kind of cargo record on the land. I hope that the citizens in the future will have much, much easier, in the sense that they will not come into the situation at all to see on their plot a person who has no right at all, and even worse than that, to be blackmailed from such persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72043	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. I assume a replica, Mr. Jovanovic? (Yes) The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72044	I thank you, Chairman. Of course we can fully agree with the fact that the coverage of the remarks is now broader and in no case should the coverage of the remarks be narrowed down because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, since 2008, or in 2009, the tendency has been to narrow down the notes, because the court was considered to have been authorised through provisional measures to further protect the parties in the process. It's true, there was an abuse when it came to the prosecution's record. Absolutely stands indiscretion, inaccuracy, everything that has caused problems in the service of the catastrophe of immovableity. However, it is also true that a later observation of the dispute has been made in legal proceedings, i.e. claims for the determination of the right of property, claims for usurpation, i.e. the return of immovable property if it is usurped, is specifically the case of catastrian parcels. These circumstances, these facts have caused a huge problem in the catastro. And fortunately, we correct them. That's good. But also, in no way should we stop at the fact that we are now with this proposal that is good, that is good, that is, done with everything that involves writing notes into the cadastre. We need to expand it. It's not just about the possessions. It's not just about the availability of estrangement immovableities, leases, gifts, etc. It's all about all the other facilities, really legal again. And in the law on enforcement and security, which is criticised here for public enforcement, there are a large number of taxing and temporary measures and security measures, which also enjoy the need to make a note, to register in the cataster. Why? Because one day one of us sitting here, one of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching or not watching, can get in trouble just because it is not known that this burden exists in the catastrophe. And then the buyer, not knowing that this burden exists, will buy real estate under the burden, no matter what the burden. Because we have one prejudice that burdens are just mortgages. No, they're not. There are a number of burdens that can cause certain problems in legal traffic, in legal traffic, and if not known, and cannot be known if there is no record of a record being recorded in the cataster, then potentially any of us can suffer certain inconveniences and even harmful consequences. For this reason, I only appeal that the future legislative proposals, which we fully agree with, have this scope that I was talking about, in their norms contained. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72045	Thank you. Alexander Seselj, after the amendment, answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72046	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. First of all, in a way, and this is one historic session, i.e. The debate on details, for the reason that we have an unusual situation in Serbia, which is that the parliamentary majority has respected the proposal of one MP, the bill, and that it is discussed. It's not a common case in the National Assembly. As you know, we have spoken several times, the Serbian Radical Party, which has submitted more than 100,000 signatures and the proposal for a law on executive procedure and security that would be abolished by public perpetrators in Serbia, is still waiting to know when the session will be held to discuss the proposal. We, in light of the current situation in the National Assembly, were thinking of entering negotiations with Mrs Gordana Komic, that she might appear as a legislator of our law, but that was before we learned about the importance of distinguished colleague Katarina Rakic. We might ask her to file our bill, too, not have to represent it, but just keep it on the agenda, so we can discuss it a little bit. We have heard some data now, related to the number of sites etc., whether the situation is better than it was before -- yes, if it is what it is -- it certainly isn't, but we have heard some information that in some case Serbia's ranking list has progressed 100 places in advance, 80, it doesn't matter. Anyway, it's highly irrelevant information. Why? Because the international financial system, which you could learn from your colleague, Mr Jokic, works so that certain countries that should be in a subordinate position are placed high on these various lists and institutions, etc. The Washington Consensus, the World Bank, the IMF, the World Trade Organisation and the rest, not because these countries are successful, but because it should be an incentive for these countries to continue to be in debt to foreign banks, that's all. So it's not worth the success of a particular country, it's value of loyalty. The same thing is with these credit ratings and those “Standard and Poor’s” institutions and others, therefore, to the extent that a government, a country, is obedient, will also be assessed. If she starts looking for some, perhaps, economic alternatives, then she'll be rated much worse. A concrete example, as regards Serbia, for example, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia had not passed any law in the staged tender, gave work to build the Moravia Corridor to the US firm Bechtel, if they had chosen a cheaper offer, and bids were cheaper, even for 300m euros that came from some Chinese companies, those who built the highway "Milos Great" might not have been so much commendable by international financial institutions, might then be some criticism. Imagine if a Chinese company had been paid 300 million more than it is now with the American company, if the Chinese company were in place of that American company, what would happen? We'd get sanctions, you who rank us now, I don't know which place either. Do we really need to take a ride, and then believe in a ranking like that and really think about living as well in Serbia as we're told? It's just not like that. We were surprised that Mrs. Rakic appeared here as a proposing, bearing in mind everything, that the best proposal for a law she has passed is not going to be in a position to implement it, because she is a national MP. She will be in a position to propose changes or to criticise him or speak about it in the National Assembly, but it would be normal to hear what the resolution minister says on the subject, her opinion, that Mrs. Mihajlovic spends these two days in the National Assembly and she says something about the state of the present, as it is, how it will be, etc. (Katarina Rakic: He can't, I'm the promoter. It is Mrs. Rakic's proposal, but I do not believe that Mrs. Mihajlovic would be banned from sitting here in the National Assembly. (Katarina Rakic: He can't, I'm the promoter. So you could show a little more interest in it that way, but we're not going to interpret it. I don't want to guess why you're the promoter, and it's not Mrs. Mihajlovic, but fine. It doesn't matter. Certainly, you will not be in a position to implement this law and act on it unless, perhaps, you can replace Mrs. Mihajlovic after the next election, if your party wins a sufficient number of votes, which I would welcome not because you are perhaps capable of so much or quality, I really don't know that, but I believe there is no one more incompetent than Zorana Mihajlović. So now the situation in that ministry has shown us some really abnormal things, schizophrenic. So the director of Railways was arrested for taking bribes. The man said he shared that money with Zorana Mihajlovic or took it on her behalf and no one took it. So, instead of investigating it, to hear and Zorana Mihajlovic, which would be normal, why trust anyone on the word, and whoever says he didn't do and who he says he did, we had enough of the opinion of the other ministers in the government to believe that Zorana was here innocent in the whole affair. That should be examined. Zorani Mihajlovic should not believe the word she deserved, as well as that of someone accused. On the other hand, the arrest of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure was in custody, and in our system, the State Secretary of State of the Ministry is a pandan to the deputy minister. Imagine the situation in which the director of Railways was arrested in a very short period, Deputy Minister, i.e. State Secretary, and Zorana Mihajlovic acts as if it were not her business and representatives of the government are racing, i.e. Ministers, even the president of the Republic, have said publicly several times that they are convinced of the innocence of Zorana Mihajlovic as regards these criminal proceedings, i.e. criminal affairs. Is that normal? Should we, perhaps, in the rule of law, have the prosecution deal with it, or have enough of our opinions, for example, Mrs. Ana Brnabic? Is there anything that can be done at the Ministry of Infrastructure without the minister's signature? What kind of minister is a deputy in crime who doesn't know that? Either he's incompetent or he's an accomplice, no third. If she's incompetent, and she couldn't see something like this happening, she needs to be replaced, and if she was involved, she needs to be removed and sent to prison. As far as this legalization is concerned, we have talked about it here for a long time, about the law of objects, it is clear that there is no solution in sight or anyone in this regard, these objects are increasingly and more, there is no solution to how to solve this problem, but Zorana Mihajlovic, during her term of office, openly threatened to bring down people who, because of their incompetence and the government before her and any other since 2000, had failed to solve the problem. We are being transferred here from a time when ethnic cleansing was carried out from the space of the former Republika Srpska Krajina, when the Croatian army sent more than 250,000 Serbs to "Storm" and when they came to Serbia, so at one such time we who were in power in the municipality of Zemun tried and did everything possible for us to go out to those people and in those settlements, therefore, both in Busi, and in Ugrinovci, and in Altina, and in Batajnica, and the settlements that belong to the municipality of Surcin today, not the municipality of Zemun. Why is it not enough what we did? It's like we were in power from 1996 until 2020, and the advances came to power yesterday. You should look, maybe, at what you've done, i.e. What did the SNS do last... There today, unfortunately, only in terms of travel infrastructure, in terms of water and sewerage, in terms of some traffic solutions just ahead of the elections, something small is done before the elections, and then it is pompously announced that it has just begun, and after the elections will continue and only then will it be implemented and it will be, in fact, the metropolis and so full of eight years, since 2012, in every campaign. Authorities come in, listen to the problems, and after that they say – yes, here I am now guaranteeing it, it will begin to be resolved shortly after the election. I will remind you, in 2018, Alexander Vučić in Batajnica at the pre-election rally of SNS says – here, many were unsuccessful before the SNS and the citizens of Batajnica failed to secure the exit on the highway, i.e. to end the exclusion on the highway of Belgrade – Novi Sad, and I promise you that in three months we will deal with this, and I promise not these local advances, did you hear, Zoran? These are Vucic's words since February 2018. Here he is now in February 2020, and of those three months and that deadline there is absolutely nothing. No shovel moved there. It is about the property of the ruling furniture and the method it operates because it is best managed in election campaigns. They have pre-election promises in all segments -- everything will be better, everything will be invisible, everything will be on the historical level, everything will be best in history and so on, and then, in the period when all this is to be carried out, then there should be new elections, and with new elections and new promises, and the old promises no one even remembers. Again, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted a bill that would introduce fundamental changes to the well-being of all Serbian citizens in our legal system, which would result in courts being reorganised, reformed, more people employed, executed in courts, courts being responsible exclusively for the execution process, and that would be a guarantee of respect for human rights and human dignity of all Serbian citizens, that one cannot be allowed to be robbed and property brutally kidnapped, as is now the situation with public perpetrators. This cannot be spoken of here, because there is no understanding by the ruling coalition, and then we see about some changes that are either cosmetic or not so important, we have time for that, and then we see, when Gordana Comic shows up that she is actually a hero of free thought in Serbia, a fighter for democracy and a public changer for the better in Serbia. Representatives of the Progressives were racing to praise Gordana Komic more. So, unfortunately, it is our sad reality and, in our opinion, we should first respect all citizens of Serbia in the same way. We believe, with all due respect, that Mrs Rakic, neither Mrs Comic, is more valuable than any other MP, and that the National Assembly and the ruling majority need to have the same archina towards all, and that you respect more than 100,000 Serbian citizens who have signed an initiative, in this case the SRS proposal to abolish public executioners. You don't have to vote for it, you don't have to agree with it, but you have to respect them, show them that everyone in Serbia is equal, not that they're more equal than each other, as we now have a chance to see. If you want to solve things in the catastrus and in general at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Traffic, you need to make a key change first because the fish smell like head and you need to change and process Zorana Mihajlovic, and then deal with other problems afterwards. As long as you have someone who laughs openly in your face, as Zorana Mihajlović does when he and the man who just got out of custody organizes a press conference, laughs at investigative authorities and police in the face, and you, as was the case with this Police, what will you expect, any progress. So that's infantile. It will bring nothing of great importance to Serbia. The opinion should be different and fundamental problems should be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72047	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Dragan Savkic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72048	Thank you, Chairman. For real information from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and employees of the Republic Geodetic Institute, the catastran is not as the previous speaker said, that the catastran is changing the purpose of land from building to agricultural. It's not his jurisdiction. Catastran shall make that land change on the basis of a decision by the competent authority, which is a municipality or another body that has made a decision of law, and the catastran shall only carry out changes on the cadastrian parcels concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72049	Thank you, colleague Savkic. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72050	I thank you again. I had previously talked to the draft law, with Katarina, about all my amendments, where we saw and agreed on everything, specifically, that in the previous period, when those experts from the then DOS were selling, they were stealing property from companies where workers worked, where workers didn't receive salaries, so through duties, they tried to alienate, or to sell, certain objects. But then there was no record, so it was sold, one, the other, all at the expense of the workers. We have now given this opportunity and made sure that this bill makes things easier for our people and improves for the next period. I am sure that we will have the opportunity to adopt this law, normally, with other proposals that need to improve other spheres in society, we will have the opportunity to build more safely and build faster, with all the necessary papers and to know where and what is in which place. Once again, I will support the bill. On the other hand, Katarina Rakic explained in the best way before and now as necessary, how once more should be done, Katarina, go ahead. We see that our women work much better than we do men.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72051	The 3rd amendment was filed by MP Zoran Despotovic. The Proposer and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mr. Zoran Despotovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72052	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the SRS refers to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration in the Immobility and Waters Catalogue, where we sought correction in the mentioned article due to an obvious grammatical error. That's why this amendment was accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, in this legislative practice, we are not serious about the laws, in this case still legal proposals, so unlike other developed countries, we are short-lived or often changed and complemented. The laws with us seem to be getting ready for one season. Today's bill of law is an obvious example in this direction, because since 2018, this is the fourth time intervention, how much do I think it is, and the question is, is that in a short time and normal? Speaking of the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is the very top of this activity, as someone in the principle debate said, is one of the problems in the number of employees, which is not true, but the SRS finds it a small problem in relation to what the real situation on the ground is. Precisely, a bad service organisation, private agencies that take money to citizens, work on black, work without field work licenses, not everyone, of course, honors exceptions, then, poor co-operation between the agency and the catastra, which is all reflected in the great dissatisfaction of citizens with this activity. I cannot stress what we MPs of the SRS pointed out in the principle debate, that no matter what the Rules of Procedure permits, he was called Rakic or Comic, instead of being representatives of the government here today, who could and may have had to answer to the MPs for action, bad acts or not. So today this service is one of the most messy in Serbia, where thousands and thousands of objects await resolution. In this direction, I would mention the SRS initiative in collecting the signatures of more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia to abolish public enforcement, which you, gentlemen 126, have ignored and do not want the SRS initiative to be on the agenda of the assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72053	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72054	Thank you. I have already said, therefore, that we do not know how much Mrs. Mihajlović is interested in this law at all, and we certainly know this and it has proved more than once, that instead of the constitutional role that the Serbian parliament has, which is to be the government's superior, which should be heard by the government, that it criticises and that all ministers are under constant threat, as it is in normal democracies, whether parliament will replace them if they haven't done badly, in Serbia is a completely reverse situation, where MPs are ruling most of the instrumentalised by the Serbian government and they only serve to fill the formal part, i.e. that the laws are passed. I'll remind you of some other interesting things about Zorana Mihajlovic. It is not only that Bechtel affair, where more than 300m euros have been paid to the US firm more than it really is worth, but it has repeatedly insulted some of our biggest allies on the international agenda, as was the case with the Russian Federation or China, and even at one point in that schizophrenia has insulted the SPC. It is the person who brings the US ambassador to the government of the Republic of Serbia, where he holds the tyranny of Kosovo's independence, that it is a reality that needs to be accepted as soon as possible, and Zorana Mihajlovic stands without any reaction in his society. I didn't suppose he'd dare the government, so he'd demarcate or ask the ambassador to leave our country, become a persona non-grat, but I expected some reaction. No, nothing happened, she was just laughing and that way she might have shown support for what the U.S. ambassador was saying. So that's the person. And we don't see a problem in all these affairs at all today, we're not talking about it and it's kind of showing up that it's too important for the ruling coalition, it's more important than the Serbian Parliament and the SNS's main board and the SNS presidency, because it's obviously an exponent of someone else in the government of the Republic of Serbia and not of the advances. Then you accept it, because that's how you respond to the pressures that come from abroad. So, if your changes you are referring to are not just for marketing purposes of a pre-election campaign that has not just begun, we should perhaps expect you to first show before the election how determined you really are and who is obviously in crime, who in every way compromises our country, to deal with it now, so to change it, to replace Zorana Mihajlović. We see from you, about your behavior, that both the SNS and if he wins and if he doesn't win, Zorana's place is not at stake. So that's an impression and it shows us that you're not going to change anything essentially, but you're just going to use it for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72055	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72056	I've submitted another amendment. When it's all over with the immovableity, when it's mutilated, I put it there that in no later than a year it has to be entered into the cadastre. It's something that it is, when someone says a year, no longer, it's appropriate because they have a large number of things to finish, a big job that needs to be done, but it doesn't write a deadline here right now, and that's why I suggested that it should end at the latest that year. Otherwise, as I said, the big problem is in the catastrus because of a small number of people, a small number of perpetrators, but something else that is very important to all of us is agriculture. We all know about our land, our land facilities, the cohesion, it's a great opportunity for us to address the problem of legal and property matters in the National Investment Plan planned for 2025, the accent and the commission, where the problem of legal and property matters will be solved through the comcommissioning programme, specifically because the unsustained property has been transferred from chukundada to today. It's going to be one of the big things, and it's a piece of work, a solution, then the cadastre will have more work to do. Once again, I think this law is really very good, very good, and we should vote for this law. I would invite fellow MPs to vote in favour of my amendment, so that this deadline is no longer than a year from the day that these properties are mutilated.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72057	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72058	Thank you. In this amendment, I mentioned specifically that since a large number of our territories do not have the possibility of e-mail, other species can be used because there are a large number of villages where there are no mails, there are no elements that work there electronically, so there are some other types of mail.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72059	Thank you. According to the amendment, Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72060	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, as a member of the committee responsible for adopting the proposed legislative solution, but also as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, and first as someone coming from a postal system in which he has spent more than 20, so I can say almost 30 years of his work, I want to comment on this, I can say, crucial change. The proposed legal solution foresees that the catastra solution is delivered by mail and kept in the mail for 15 days in case the recipient of this solution is not at home at the time of the postman's arrival. Why do I think this is a key change, most important to our citizens, and why do we have to pay attention to it? For a simple reason, catastrian services do not exist in that extent and do not have an infrastructure network such as the Post of Serbia and it is perfectly natural for these state services to co-operate, and in particular to rely on the Public Business of Post office of Serbia which has been operating for 180 years in Serbia, it has an incredibly advanced modern network of over 1.530 businesses, i.e. over 1.530 mail in Serbia and 30 businesses in KIM. What does that mean? This means that Serbia's Post office today exists in the smallest and most remote place in Serbia. As we talk about urban environments, it is, of course, possible to accept a solution in electronic form, by email or electronic mailbox, as these modern laws predict. What does that mean for smaller areas, rural areas and older populations? We still don't have the options, we don't have the capacity, we're not all able to use the e-mail. That is why it is very important for our mailman to take this solution to the address, so unless there are no recipients, that same solution is returned to the mail and kept in the post office for 15 days. Why? Because our citizens can work uninterruptedly, do their duties, do their job, take their children from school or kindergarten, come home to eat, do whatever they need, and then, late at night, they can go to the post office and raise that solution. In this way, we shorten the time and costs of our citizens and give them the opportunity to live more comfortable in terms of this legal obligation. We are aware that laws are written with the best goal of giving them certain benefits and that they allow for a better life and faster functioning in this dynamic time for our citizens. It happens, of course, that sometimes these legal solutions do not in practice live in that written way, so it is also necessary for these legal solutions to be changed. In that sense, I welcome this perceived flaw that happened through an existing legal solution, which is that we cannot physically return the solution within two hours from the post office to the cadastre. We can, but it's very expensive, and then our citizens have to travel to the next catastrophe compared to where they live. That's why I welcome this solution, I welcome the promoter, and I think it will be very quick to remove all these crowds, shortcomings and misunderstandings about it. Dear citizens, don't worry, the Post Office of Serbia is 365 days a year, 24 hours in service for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72061	Thank you. Mr. Miletic, have you answered the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72062	Just for a little while. My colleague Snow White is everything I thought I said. It is perhaps the need for mail to exist in some villages, because we are witnessing that in hill-mounted, rural areas, from which I come, it is very difficult to keep working, but as we have heard from our colleague, the bill and this solution is much better. I'll thank Katarina once again, thanking my colleague Snow White for explaining these things this way. I think there's really a proposal in place, and we should all vote, as they say, unanimously.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72063	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 5th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At its session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the electronic advertising board should contain certain data. How important the catastran is is in the Republika Srpska case. The geometry I respected most recently is not among the living, they say it was the most accurate. It was a geometry from Valjev, and I wish I had established a little more power in Valjev High School, perhaps an academy, and it would have been called the Nikola Kalabic Academy. Not because of his merits in World War II, they say his books, Mr. Martinovic, are still being used today, as very precise. By the time I mention the Republic of Serbia, how important the catastre is, we will see from those 94 thousand hectares of agricultural land, which at any cost someone wants to kidnap from Republika Srpska. Yes, Nikola Kalabic was born in Republika Srpska, and has ties to Republika Srpska and I think there are many people there named Nikola, and it will not pass so easily. In previous discussions, I also said that these multiethnic, kidnappings of the country, cannot prove to me how in the Federation with 505,000 Serbs, in those territories of 1991, now live less than 50,000 people and 2.5% of Serbs in 2013, and 14% of Bosniaks live in Republika Srpska, i.e. before that were Muslims. Who's actually multiethnic? Who here has ethnically cleaned up? But it seems the provocations towards the Serbs are moving on. The country's 94 thousand hectares of Republika Srpska should be kidnapped, I think not because of agricultural land, from provocation to do so. Everything that happens around Serbia, including in the catastres of neighbouring republics, is happening because of Serbia, due to provocation. Someone wants to stop Serbia, first of all in economic progress, because they have realised that since Serbia stepped on its feet, it has helped the Serbian people in the environment, that it has a strong economy, that it has money, to help Serbs, not only in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, but also in the Federation of BiH, for example, in Drvar. Maybe it bothers someone. It is a strange coincidence that Serbia is beginning to help Serbs in the region, to mark the troubles they have gone through, to seek to guard their Serbian name, to guard their Serbian language and culture, to raise their heads again, to raise their flag again, which many forbid, such as those in Montenegro, who seek to wipe out Serb churches, Nemanja, Saint Sava, etc. It's weird what's going on around Serbia, it's happening to me because of Serbia. Therefore, it is very important for me to think very carefully about what some around us are doing and why they want to provoke the Republic of Serbia at any cost and why they multiply our problems, when we do not touch any of them at the moment, when we do not plead on their territory, and they want to take part of the territory of Republika Srpska, which is not theirs. So I say that our people need to watch carefully what our leadership is doing, to keep a cool head, to have a warm heart, not to fall for some earlier jokes, as young people say, not to be provoked, that only in extreme need do we not allow the repetition of "Blash" and "Storms", but because of events in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, no one can convince me that the goal is not Serbia, the Serbian people in Serbia and the Serbian people in the environment, which we are helping each year and we will be able, if we are economically advanced, to help them more and more. When the Serb people in the region stand on their feet, no one will stop them in economic progress and everyone will want to build good relations with Serbs and with Serbia. It bothers these leaderships, which stemmed from previous wars, which were war criminals, and became cobajagi some statesmen and politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72065	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The proposer and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72066	Once again, I thank you, another of the things you suggested, is that all those things in the catastro are updated in the best way, that it be periodic and that it be official. Normally, that way we'll have the opportunity to keep all the things that are being done, which are being built, on time. I expect that in the coming period there will be more building and more working in small environments, as I come from, such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and that part of Southeastern Serbia, to be built there, to work there, to have opportunities to normally employ people and to have more work to do, but this electronic route can be done much, but on the other hand, I hope and I am sure that the state of Serbia must allocate more funds through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, more funds for agriculture, for the village, for the construction of traffic in our regions. This is all possible for the development of our southeastern Serbia and Serbia itself. Once again, for the fifth time I say, Katarina, all honors, the law is an extraordinary quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72067	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72068	The problem in practice is also when it comes to the so-called e-Government or e-Salter, an appointment with the competent services of the catastra in cities and because it is unfair, and that is the objection of the Serbian Bar Association given priority to public notaries, or notaries against whose existence the SRS is also, as we have asked over 100,000 signatures of citizens to be placed on the agenda and our bill to abolish these mobsters, public perpetrators. So if someone wants to make an appointment, it's a lot harder for him, especially because all these notaries that collect huge profits, because they've taken over the jurisdiction of the contract that the basic courts used to do, it's impossible for a citizen to be in the same position. Secondly, you keep doing not only of this, Mrs. Rakic, the resor, from other areas of amending the law or you pass the law, and within six or ten months you will coordinate the sublegal act. So once you've changed this law, you've granted lawyers the status of an official. But you've given the deadline to get it by November at the latest, I think this year, with them I can make contracts for them to get it. There's been a deliberate obstruction somewhere that they don't have such a contract and they don't have access to it. That makes it difficult, here, you have lawyers in the O.R., and they can't end any dispute that's very important to the party at all, because the document they need isn't available to them. What does that mean now, in that lawsuit, a lawyer has to resort to some kind of ruse, so instead of five, to list some ten witnesses, just to stall until the paper comes from the catastrophe. As far as these e-mails are concerned, and as far as delivery is concerned. Of course, the Post Office of Serbia and we are really as responsible people taking into account the history of mail and work, talking about when it was the Law on Postage Services. But believe me, these people who do a responsible job are once unacceptable terrain in certain parts, not mailmen, but because of that configuration and where they live, these people, individuals. You've been looking at those cases out there in the hills above the Kursumli spa, so here we have a new case of children in some shadowy villages, four hours going to school and back. So these are all problems and they have some property and they have their own problems and we can't make them so strictly or legally binding. We have to go to those places where, um, there's no service, there's even in someone else, they don't have it now, who knows how many courts have been suspended, we'll be back when we're in the opportunity and that network of courts. So it's impossible for you to expect someone to be the same now, you say you're there in Grocko, me in Kragujevac or in some rural environment, Milija went out in some old mountain village there. You know, all of this has to be considered, and especially since not all lawyers are in the same position. The lawyer who works in Piroth or in the White Palanca has the same obligation to the party, as a lawyer in downtown Belgrade or in Uzic, and it is much harder for him to reach some services than for those living in downtown Belgrade to set foot in front of the catastra service. All of this must be taken into account when laws like this are passed, and especially so that those who need to facilitate the work of ordinary citizens cannot be brought into an unequal position in relation to someone employed in the cataster. In this case, I think lawyers, I guess fellow Jovanovic is also aware of that from his practice that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72069	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is from MP Katarina Rakic, who is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72070	Thank you. I thank you too, Mrs Jovanovic, as I did to Mr Neđa Jovanovic, you noticed the same problem and that is exactly what we debated in the principle debate and today when we talked about the accepted amendment. Mr Jovanovic himself said that in some future time we would approach the adoption of some new amendments and additions to the law, where it will be covered, and yet I said, the reforms are already made and certainly must be introduced one by one, if they were notaries but lawyers first, it would be a question of why notaries, if they were not the notaries first, but the courts, again it would be the reverse question why they are not courts, because the courts were introduced into the system of our tents in 1.1.2020. So it certainly introduces one by one, but I am glad that the lawyers are simply rebelling now and want to engage in one system that you are clearly showing is good, and what I have already cited and certainly from your discussion, I can see that we have also agreed and that the "Post" network is certainly bigger and more accessible to the citizens of Serbia than the Catastrian services themselves, and of course that citizens sometimes have to go to another city for their own solution, so for this very reason, where citizens are not available to go to the catastrases, it is certainly closer to doing so in the next 15 days in "Post". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72071	Thank you. The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72072	Mr. Chairman, here we go, one more time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in connection with the previous presentation of counterpart Natasa Sp. Jovanovic and the roles of "Post-Serbia" in the proposal for this legislative solution, so I have to say once more "Serb Post" with almost 15,000 employees, of which not full 9,000 people working on the "Post" and in the background technology affairs, as well as over 4,000 mailers on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia are really ready and really serious and responsible for doing their job and can carry out any job. This way, I call on the State to rely on the "Post", its capacity and its capabilities, and to be satisfied together with good and quality work. After all, our goal is the satisfaction of our citizens. In that sense, it is very important for me to say and welcome this solution and once again confirm that we can do it and that this change is really good. The Post Office of Serbia operates under the Law on Postage Services, which prescribes the same deadlines and quality of transmission, both in Belgrade and in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, as well as under my Kopalnik or in Kursumlia or elsewhere, Piroth, or the Pyrot County, in every village and so on in KIM. So let me once again welcome this solution and call on all state services that need to work and put their jobs on "Serb Mail", because in "Serb Post" it works and works for 15,000 employees who can do it in quality and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72073	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. Anyone would want you for the PR. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72074	We've got the P.R. mail, the P.R. Attorney's office. I am glad that there is an absolute understanding when it comes to the status of lawyers as professional users of services for Katastar immovableity, but in order not to be an advocacy, we are not talking here because of lawyers, lawyers are only there who do the professional service user's job, and that status gives them the opportunity to allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia who represent the degree of protection that citizens deserve. I'm just going to repeat the appeal one more time, because obviously it's not a problem here, it's not a problem with the promoter, it's not a problem with the ministry, it's a problem in Qatar. Which is why the conclusion of the contract is delayed so that the status of professional users of services, such as lawyers, because they have, indeed, that status can be realised in practice? What's taking this another year? There is no single argument, no single fact that would justify so long a shift in time. Why would the citizens suffer a year for lawyers to get that status? There's a logical question, a natural question. If the law defined the status of a lawyer as a professional user of Katastra and thus allowed their clients to determine according to that status, why has it been extended in a year? Therefore, the proposal does not address the question to the applicant, since the applicant cannot answer that question, it is specifically referred to the Director of the Republic Geodesy Institute or the RGZ. I guess it's perfectly natural, I guess it's perfectly logical, that if some kind of status is defined, normized by the law, that he shouldn't in practice wait to be applied. We, when we choose judges, in a particular case, this home still plays a role and has the authority to elect judges who are first elected to the judge's office. How about we postpone their work for a year or two? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72075	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Snow White Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To thank you for the compliment you gave me, but I have to correct you, for the sake of the public, for the position of this company, for the years of its operation, 180 years is a serious history for an institution in Serbia. In that sense, I must say that the citizens of Serbia are used to "Serb Post", having confidence. The postman is an informal member of every family in Serbia, a relative, friends. Somewhere in older households where one or two people live, this postman is an extended hand of our country. For quality and deadlines, the state is responsible for the functioning of the postal system and entrusts these jobs to JP "Post-Serbia". Let go of my love, my love is undeniable, I grew up there. I entered the Post Office of Serbia when I was 19 years old, and I have to tell you that now it's almost three decades from now since I've worked there, so it's perfectly natural that there's this postage in my DNA and I'm never going to give it up, like I'm going to live and while I can function and give my voice, I'm going to fight for good status and good voice and the good functioning of "Post of Serbia" and its employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72077	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72078	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are bringing to an end the debate on this bill on amendments to the Law of the Catastrophe. This particular amendment is indeed in line with what we have already heard and the question is why the law is passed without being applied immediately, but it is your practice. It is common here and it is more excessive and ask such a thing, but when you think about everything here about the work of Katastra, then it is an undivided opinion and it is obvious that both the MPs of the government and us from the opposition that the situation in Katastra is not well, that people are generally dissatisfied with the functioning of the service of the RGZ and the service to Katastar. That's absolutely true. You can change as much as you want and this law and I don't know what law, but these changes won't absolutely improve the work of the cadastre service. None of Serbia's citizens will only feel under this law that the cadastre in his place will function better and will serve him, which is his role. In the functioning of the catastra, believe me, delivery is the least of the problems. A much bigger problem is that the services start working, that there can normally be a request, that at the request of work, that certain confidence or solution be brought upon request. That's the main problem. This law will not change, and I think it's clear to you all. You colleagues here two days ago mentioned the number of missing workers in the catastro in all of Serbia. We can accept it, and we always tell everyone – my people that you complain. Well, is it possible for you to say, because of someone like that, to say, "We forbid employment in the public sector, to leave such important services with a shortage of workers?" That's inadmissible. Kadastra must have as many officials as it takes to meet the needs of all people in Serbia who have the need to serve as a catastra. There's no one who doesn't have that kind of need. Do you know how far Serbia's configuration is, how far the villages from the municipality's headquarters, or local self-government, is as long as it takes if one catastra surveyor officer has to go to a village, for example from Tutin, to a village up there somewhere, I don't know how far away, 50km away, he can't do more than that field that day. So these are some practical things, practical problems that must be addressed. You can't do that. You can bring here and change I don't know what law, it's the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resolute Ministry and that Director of the Catastra. We have a problem with these people. We have a problem with Zorana Mihajlovic as a resolute minister, we have a problem with that director of the catastra. None of you here defending this could say anything that would be contrary to our claims. It's just facts. You can blame us for saying this, what we say, but it's also a fact and whoever wants to talk to us seriously has to admit that we never criticize order. We disagree, we make arguments, but you have no arguments to answer our arguments, but you strike with the force of the majority. That's not an argument. The way you have these green buttons is not an argument against what we say these amendments to the law will be a possible source of corruption. You started your reign by declaring Vučić's zero corruption. What degree is corruption in Serbia today? Today there are no segments in Serbia without corruption. Come on, say this isn't true. Unfortunately. Unfortunately, we wish it wasn't. We wish that you had really helped to start working in this country or to function well in the system's institutions, but that's not the case. It's not exactly our own debate, which is the role of opposition MPs, we're trying to distract you, people listen to us, don't act so hard just because there are so many of you right now that you can vote whatever you want. I told you today, you can vote that the country is a flat plate, but you won't change the fact that the country is round. That's how you have to think. Let you go, I'm the most important one here or the most important one, and there's 120 behind me, and I don't know how many MPs. That's not an argument, like campeicity, I've told my colleagues many times, it's not an argument. You know what arguments are. You say, today you object to our amendments – it is deleted, it says – you have proposed to delete one member and thus showed your relationship to the law. We're not, but according to that member, and when we delete everything, then we show a relationship to the law. Really, try harder, my people. It's not that complicated. I don't know if this is your second term, but even if it isn't the second term and this one's about to end, and they need to learn some things so we can talk if we're not on the air right now, but when we were, and if someone looks at us at some point last night that they really have an impression -- these are the MPs I voted for, someone for this one, someone for that one. (President: Thank you. That's different. Here, I finish, just once again to remind you, first of all here in the hall, and also someone who will possibly hear us, that Zelenović, the fascist method in Sapac, banned the promotion of the book Vojislav Seselj "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". Now, I'm sorry it's not in direct transmission, but he'll hear it anyway, we'll have to hold that promotion at the Alliance for Serbia office, because he won't let us in the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72079	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Katarina Rakić, who proposes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72080	Thank you. We've heard everything, I'd just like to repeat that I've heard all the amendments carefully, as well as this last one. He says – the force of most, not arguments. Here, I will now say, Mrs Radeta said at the beginning – you do not apply the law immediately, which you have given the deadline for some of the members of this bill to start applying only on 31 March 2020. And she writes in the amendment – changes and will start to apply the law within 30 days of the entry into force of this law. Let's do the math. The law will enter into force on 3 March, we will adopt it on 24 February, it will enter into force on 3 March, and it will be 30 days on 3 April. So, this law will come... I just want to tell you, I listen to you, I listen to what you do, we don't write amendments just to talk, and why do you think I don't listen to you? What makes you think you're writing amendments just to get time to say something? Indeed, I believe that this law, which we will adopt on Monday, which will start to apply eight days after the entry into force, is something that will primarily greatly reduce corruption in the cataster for the simple reason that people will not take over the solutions in the cataster but in the post office. Who are they going to pay there, mailmen, checkers in the post office? Why? To give them a solution from the catastrophe? The second solution he offers is an electronic mailbox. Who's he gonna pay for, the hard drive? The next solution is to publish on the RGZ website. Who are they gonna pay for, the RGZ site? Come on, why didn't you suggest a solution then? Now, we found these three as possible solutions to reduce corruption. I say, I don't know, I heard, you say there's corruption, I don't doubt it, but let's report if you know, you'll help us. But in this way, in these three ways that I mentioned today in this law, they're just helping to reduce corruption. I don't know how this law will contribute to corruption. Here, I listed, people go for the mail solutions, the catastra solutions go for the mail, download them via the site or via the e-sanducet. If we don't reduce corruption to this, you tell me where that corruption space is and I'll agree with you. I want to thank you once again for putting up with the amendments that are not – are being deleted, that is, deleted, that you have made an effort to write amendments that will improve the text of the law, some of us, who are really in favour of it, have accepted some, and I really thank all my colleagues once again for today's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72081	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72082	I don't know why my colleague only read one article, and here she represents the whole law. So, no one was talking about the delivery here. It's completely different what we've been talking about all day. We're talking about what, of course, is also mentioned delivery, how not, but we're talking about the issue of enrollment in a cadastre without building permits and we're asking why the buildings that were built without building permits are not covered by the so-called building permits. Legalization, as you call it, legislation. But it's really pointless to come back right now. All the amendments have passed. You're gonna do what you're gonna do. But something else is symptomatic here. You first propose the law and a few days after you propose it, you don't even pass the procedure, or a sufficient number of days in the Rules of Procedure, so was the bill by Gordana Komic, and then you put yours on the agenda and get those 126 votes to discuss your laws, before that on Canko's law. These are your political messages. To get someone to go to the polls or at least publicly say that he will go to the elections, and before he says he won't, you tell him – here's the bill, we'll vote for the law. But no one, nor you colleagues, has ever answered these days why you are not interested in more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia who signed a petition under the proposal of the SRS for a new law on executive procedure and security, where we have suggested that the executive procedure be fully returned to the courts, to be removed from the coat of arms of the people by these thieves, called perpetrators. Just say the perpetrators aren't thieves. So here I go, buddy. You won't put our bill on the agenda. We have 20 other such proposals, but this one is backed by 100,000 signatures, you won't put on the agenda, you're still bothered by our amendments. Try putting a patch on our mouths. Nobody made it, neither will you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72083	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has Veroljub Matic. Here you go, authorized representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72084	Thank you. I want to say some things here. I may not have a systematic, but I think I'll say some important things. Here, counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic, who is an excellent lawyer, often mentioned lawyers and their status in the Catastres, or in the Real Estate Catastres. I said last time, I don't think my colleague Jovanovic was there, I think lawyers have a good status as far as the Immobilization Department is concerned, because I'm carrying it off the ground. It's my profession and I know these relationships. I don't think those ten months are a problem, I don't think it's a problem. I think there's a problem here in general, and that's the willingness of lawyers at the university to get involved in the work in the Catastres, or the Republic Geodetic Institute. I think that's where education needs to make some specialization and that a certain number of people in law school or construction department, or geodesy department, are going to be prepared to accept that matter when they come to be fully prepared. It's just that they're not the guilty, these people aren't the guilty, because the lawyer who came out of the catastrophe, who passed that matter, they're the great lawyers in the matter that this part is being processed. That's why I think it deserves the attention of the education system, that we're studying that profile of a lawyer. Maybe not every year, maybe every second or every third, etc., but I think we should get such lawyers who will be ready to accept that matter immediately. Because matter isn't everyday, it's not easy to understand, especially to lawyers from social areas. I simply said, generally speaking, geodesy is applied mathematics. Next, a colleague here said that the situation in the catastres is not good. That's one general part - not good. I haven't been here the whole time, maybe I haven't heard everything, but that's one general assessment where you can always say it's not good. I'm asking, what's wrong? If I'm someone who's from that branch, from that profession, who's worked for a long time, who's carried certain activities, etc., I know what it was like before, what's the situation now. If we take that in one short time, the full diameter at Serbia level is digitized, people, that's such a mass of data that had to be digitized from analogue form, that you get everything in coordinates and that by pressing the button today you get a plot anywhere in Serbia, with all the data you need. I think that's a terrible progress. A lot's been done. Of course it's supposed to work. The basic problem with the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute, i.e. the Service for the Catastre of immovableity by local units, because they are the holders of the business, the main problem is the lack of knowledge of this matter and the lack of knowledge of the obligations of us who carry us on immovable property. We're simply irresponsible to that. I have cited the example of our irresponsibleness, which is indirectly related to the services of the stalemate of immovableity, which are, for example, desert procedures. As soon as the desert procedure isn't done in the first hereditary knee, the second, the third, when he comes to inherit something, the heirs don't even know each other. There can't be a cadastre to blame. It's not his fault. Furthermore, it says there that any change in immovableity, that we are owners, or users of immovable property, are obliged to report within 30 days. I don't know if even one percent of us do it in Serbia, unless we need it, if we want to exercise some rights, I'm primarily thinking about these credit lines. And there's always someone else... So we're bound to respect that property we have and respect the legal regulations. What we're doing today and what we did the day before yesterday, here are improvements, excellent improvements, accelerations, reliefs. With these changes, there's no point. We've technically arranged this to make it easier for both citizens and rightholders and owners and the Republic Geodesy Institute, of course, and this state. The Republic Geodetic Institute, I'm here, a colleague of the chairman cut me off last time, the day before when I presented one piece of information and wanted to take an example of this National Assembly, where I asked colleagues from Old Town to deliver us a list of immovableities and a copy of the plan. I wanted this Serbia and to hear and see if we are responsible here for running this part here, I don't mean us MPs, but of course we are responsible for that, and whether this immovableity is recorded properly. I'm half-interrupted, just to say, thank God that it's done right and that this is a monument of culture and it's written as a note. So there's a part of the responsibility here on certain immovableities. If we are as property owners, of course, the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is part of the state administration, as a special organization, if we are responsible together and if we understand it well, I think this job will go much, much better than just blaming the state, or the Republic Geodetic Institute. That's the facts. Let's all help together, because without the Republic Geodetic Service, no state can function. An orderly system of immovable property is something every state wants to have because that's what it's all about, the whole life that works in one country. That is why this contribution is also ours to achieve this and that this country is working in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72085	Thank you. The word is Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72086	In order to implement all reforms in a consistent manner, it is necessary to implement the Law on the registration of the water immobilisation process, as well as to fully adapt the systems of the judicial information system, the catastra and the e-government portal, which would introduce the possibility of an appointment with the public notary, to fill out tax returns via the e-government portal. Also, the number of procedures would be further reduced if the practice of public notebooks looking for a copy of the APP register was lifted, rather than making their own insight into the public register of legal entities. The proposed changes and additions of solutions have great potential to enter property rights and make it even easier, simpler, safer and cheaper for citizens and economic operators, which makes it favourable to the general economic environment, investment investments and stimulates the emergence of new business entities. Transferring certain public powers from the Office for the Immobilisation Catastrophe to other public authorities and professional users stimulates the emergence of new economic operators in that part of the economic sector, as well as increased employment. On the other hand, the Immobility Catastre Office is free of resources for dealing with tasks that are of its nature in its exclusive jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-21-0.u72087	Thank you, Mr. Savkic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Monday, February 24, 2020, starting at 9.30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the twenty-fiveth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. Thank you.
