ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. I invite you first to listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall. We're going to work. You have been delivered the records of the ninth session of the Second Regular Session and the twenty-eightth special session at the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly in 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 128, abstention – one. I understand we've adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th special session in the 11th session, held on 3 December 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 130, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the eighth special session. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the agenda is established, we move on to the identification of acts by emergency procedure. National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga have proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Marijan Risticevic, Djordje Komlenski and Bojan Torbica suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill amending the Law on Arms and Ammunitions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 131 MP. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission members be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – seven, abstention – one, seven MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has been accepted. We're moving on to supplementals. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting his proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session agenda - a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Society, Kragujevac. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda of the sitting be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I conclude the vote: no one supported this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one voted in favour of this proposal. I am putting on the vote by MEP Nemanje Sarovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances regarding the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find the proposal not accepted. The People's Parliament, Verica Radeta, proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73034	We've been trying to put this proposal on the agenda for over a year and a half. Two days ago, on Saturday, you actually passed a law on the legalization of baby sales from the maternity ward, where you estimated that every stolen child is worth up to 10,000 euros and that's a disgrace and shame. We wanted this bill to draw attention that children from Serbia should not be adopted by foreigners. There are a lot of reasons why we think this proposal is good. He would be in some way the introduction to solving missing babies' problems, as it has never been determined how many missing babies, or sold, unfortunately, sound harsh, but it is true how many ended up abroad. It is known that foreign services are involved, it is known that in Germany they do not allow DNA analysis of children, or now adults suspected of having arrived in Germany by international trafficking. Also, no one has ever explained to us how these reportedly missing children ended up, and also, later in the second step through the legal adoption procedure, because you were by law then, not this congregation majority, but let us, and we were against it, allowed that sort of thing. You, therefore, not now that you do not want to stop young people from leaving Serbia, but you still think that children should be given to anyone who gives more money. It's a disgrace and a disgrace and inadmissible for every responsible authority. And you and this show that you are not responsible for power and that you are at least interested in the people and that you are least interested in these, I would say, daily problems facing people in Serbia. We therefore think that you are not putting our proposals on the agenda, simply because we are pointing to these problems to our proposals, and that we are here, in fact, presenting the views of a large number of Serbian citizens, besides those 100,000 signatures to put off the power of your law on enforcement and our attempt to save the people from those dericocies called public executioners, but you have your MPs, your MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73035	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73036	You from the current government of the ruling majority, as well as from the executive government, whose instrument you are in the National Assembly, are now trying to explain to the people in Serbia that the elections will be regular, that there will be much better electoral conditions than they were before. Of course, you are thus confirming that the elections so far have not been regular and that if you think it will be much better now, that the previous elections have been very poorly organised. We are trying long before these elections are called, so, since October 2018, we have been trying to draw attention to key problems when it comes to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. The key problems are the ones you didn't want to solve. We think, in fact, that it was necessary to return to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament a provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which gives the possibility to the People's Parliament, namely that the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party from whose list he was elected as a MP. By not accepting our proposal, you shall abolish the Constitution-guaranteed freedom to have their mandate. You have shown that you are the same as those who, because of your time, have introduced this opportunity for the MP to have the mandate. It was still at the time when you stole the mandates of the SRS, but today you also support that kind of theft and today you force MPs who are here on behalf of the stolen mandate. Some of them, who won't make the election, are the worst in the world. Those who go to the election are beautiful, beautiful, even nicknames you call them. That's how you prove and show that you honestly don't want to change anything in the election process. You did what those EU officials ordered you to do, those worn-out officials, who I don't suppose represent anything else, except when they come here to Serbia. We continue to argue that what was this state of affairs in this National Assembly's assembly is precisely because MPs with a mandate under the mouse were able to walk from one of the other parliamentary groups, to form new parliamentary groups, to actually trample the will of Serbian citizens, the will of voters, and you are accomplices, because you did not want to continue to want to discuss our bill and to adopt such a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73037	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on putting out of force of the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one voted in favour of this proposal. Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73038	The most brutal terror continues by anti-Serbian criminal regime Milo Djukanovic over Serbs in Montenegro. And we are witnessing that, besides attacking our sanctities, our Serbian Orthodox Church, all the church facilities and terrorism of the Serb people, the government in Montenegro has been discriminating the Serb people for decades by not allowing Serbs to be employed in state institutions, so there is only one Serb out of the total number of judges in Montenegro. Not to mention that at the place of any health center institution, the hospital has no Serb, starting with other institutions at the top of the state government. It was necessary to accept this proposal and to speed up the acquisition of citizenship for all Serbs from Montenegro and Republika Srpska who, by law, have the right to ask the Republic of Serbia. In 2006, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, and immediately thereafter this Law on Citizenship, it was a fundamental intensities, and above all it was initiated by the SRS, that every Serb, wherever he lives, who considers the state of Serbia to be able to apply to his mother, along with a copy of the country's nationality where he was born, as well as a copy of the birth certificate and signed to submit the request. Why do Serbs have to wait, it is a question for all of you who are MPs of government, and above all for Minister Stefanovic, for years to gain citizenship? Many of them have to move out with their family because of the terror of Mil Djukanovic from Montenegro. For many Serbs from Republika Srpska, you have denied the right to employment, other forms that they have the right to use in the Republic of Serbia, and above all because of special links and all other protocols Serbia has with Republika Srpska. Is it necessary for an official at the MUP, after all the checks that can be completed in seven days, say, to hold someone's claim to gain citizenship in the Republic of Serbia for years and that Serbs cannot therefore exercise their rights? Many do not have the opportunity to work in the Republic of Serbia at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73039	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 11 MPs. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the law on human organs transplantation. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73040	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the AP KIM's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 1244, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not speak of any division or demarcation. It is the attitude of all Serbs, especially Serbian radicals. This team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory while other topics can be discussed with Albanians. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 1244 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that by adopting this law that I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73041	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 10 MPs. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73042	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a proposal for a law on financial support for the family with children to join the agenda. Financial support to a family with children in terms of the exercise of rights under this law would help improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in the family with children who are unable to achieve it on their own, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which has been defined as having the right to a child's and parent's allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. To extend the time period and pay off the parental allowance: for a third child until the age of 18, instead of 10 years old; for a fourth child until the age of 18, instead of the age of 10; for a fifth child and every next child for whom no parental allowance could be achieved until the age of 18. This would ensure the family's partial financial security with more children. The way the SRS proposes these changes and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the adoption of these amendments and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for the financial empowerment of families with children who would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. Demographic problems are great, and one of the largest is an insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. When we add to that the mass departure of young and middle-aged people, it is clear that the government would have to react urgently if the situation wanted to be improved. If it continues to go deaf about such proposals, it means that the authorities do not care what Serbia's future will be. As regards the financial resources needed to achieve this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that it will finally stop funding various NGOs and define that money to pay off children's and parents' allowances, and in the way the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Family Financial Support Act with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for the financial empowerment of families with children who would motivate parents...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73043	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal to supplement the agenda refers to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. I asked for the addition of two members relating to the destruction of those substances that are not for further use. First, if the period between taking away and destroying psychoactive substances is longer than six months, the whole quantity is required to be sampled, and then qualitative chemical analysis. Second, the period between storage and drug destruction should not be longer than six months. Dear colleagues, drug abuse is a problem of the modern era and the fight against drugs cannot be a problem of one resolution, one ministry, one ideology, but a common problem of the whole society, and while it is understood and accepted the results of this fight will be inconclusive. Our country is on the road to drugs, so it's twice as interesting as a user and as a transit area. That's why it's no wonder that in the biggest drug business, people from these areas are involved, and on the one where three-and-a-half tons of heroin was discovered on a submarine in South America, up to the largest historical seizure of a ship in Philadelphia whose worth of seized drugs was over a billion dollars to the latest seized ship in Venezuela with seven-and-a-half tons of cocaine. Ladies and gentlemen, the pace and way of life has put our family at risk, as this bonding thread between parents and children is increasingly breaking. There's less and less of these live direct communications between them, so kids are looking for a way out in the virtual world, far from real. There on the Internet and social networks, they're preyed on by the dangers of various mechanics and drug dealers, so that children as beings without their basic modality become easy targets for all kinds of experiments. He's particularly concerned that the drug-consuming limit is getting lower. Dear colleagues, this Western European dimension has put a great deal of things at stake in both value and identity. How? Yesterday I saw a show on some channel, it was about this monster from Krushevac who had promised a 13-year-old girl, and while the nation was disgusted by this act, I heard the fact that in America, a proposal for legalization of pedophilia was almost passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73045	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 11. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73046	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, who knows what time the SRS is taking to supplement the agenda and the draft laws, say, such as the Law on the Elimination of Public Executors, where you have shown with such a relationship that you have ignored SRS MPs and more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have given and supported their signature to stand once with the wealth of a small group of people at the expense of Serbian citizens. With this proposal to supplement the agenda, you could show that you care about the village and the agricultural producers, in order to improve their position in particular, especially where the conditions for the development of agriculture are difficult, where the rural part of Serbia would at least make life easier for the agricultural producer. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, and time will also show that everything that is later done in terms of incentives in agriculture, especially where there is no longer a younger population, where the ageing population prevails, that in 10 years, parts of Serbia will remain in play. In most municipalities in Serbia, none of the factories or locals are open, such as from the middle from which I come, Prepolje, and that not a few private entrepreneurs life in this municipality has long stopped. Statistical data tells us that today thousands of villages in Serbia have less than 100 inhabitants, while 200 inhabited places have no person under 20 years old, and our agricultural producer is over 60 years old and over. Doesn't this tell you that the red light is on, and it looks like we're going to turn it off with migrants? Serbia has extremely good geographical and climate characteristics, where the country is of quality somewhere at the very top of European countries, so that the country in the regions is suitable for the development of livestock, fruit growing, vegetables and warfare, but the main problem is that often the effort and work remains without results. It is therefore necessary to support both the knowledge and the incentives of both the professional staff and the state itself. I have repeatedly stressed that incentives in Serbia are very low compared to countries in the environment, so in Serbia there are 35 euros per hectare, while in the surrounding countries there are between 500 and 900 euros. That is why Serbian agriculture needs a huge turn in the direction of modern world agricultural products and manufacturers, certainly without genetically modified products, which will still ruin healthy Serbia and lead to the even greater presence of the most severe diseases of modern society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73047	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 10 MPs. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be completed with a point – a bill to put an end to the law on enforcement and security. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be completed by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on road safety. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Aleksandar Seselj suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on executive procedure and security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS handed over more than 100,000 signatures and a new draft law on executive procedure and security six months ago. So we are witnessing in these more than eight years of savagery, uncontrollably boasting and enriching public executioners, honoring the exceptions and all the problems they have made for the citizens of Serbia. I would remind you that in the work of public perpetrators of robbery and kidnapping of the property of overindebted Serbian citizens, respect for human rights, human dignity and humanity is an exception. As a result, we have collected in less than two months more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens for a new draft law on executive procedure and security that would be abolished by public enforcement in Serbia, the execution would be returned to courts, the execution would be under full control of the court and we would no longer have such a radical situation for a private person to have state powers, a rich man is uncontrollably, acting inhumanely, and all this is done with the police's escort and under the watchful eye of the state. So, the state is somehow an accomplice to the Serbian citizens' robbery, and we have seen the situation of Nela Kuburovic, who said that in the first six months of 2019, more than a billion dinars are only extra-value tax payers in the Republic of Serbia's budget. There's an abnormal situation at work that needs to be lifted as soon as possible. You've been refusing to put this bill on the agenda for six months. In this way you provide maximum support to public executioners in Serbia, and we saw that Gordana Komic, when she appeared several months later in the National Assembly with her proposal that you started talking about the mother of democracy, and you called her proposal historic. The situation was similar with Nenada Chanka's proposals. Refusing to put this bill on the agenda in the National Assembly, you insult more than 100,000 Serbian citizens who signed such a petition and the bill in less than two months. The Serbian Radical Party invites you to vote in favour of this proposal, to discuss the position of public perpetrators and is the only party in Serbia that advocates the abolition of public enforcement. That would be humane, that would be social, and that would be responsible by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73049	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - 12 MPs. Ambassador Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on repealing the Law on Public Registration. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on complementarity of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign. Tolerant of Tatjan Macura. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting to the vote Tatjana Macura's proposal to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote by the proposal by Aleksandr Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting to the vote Saša Radulovic's proposal to complete the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and procedures for expropriation, the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73050	Thank you, Chairman. This doesn't look like the order we put up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73051	That's right. We're going in line on page 47, proposal 47. (Branka Stamenkovic: You have not read 36.) Point 36 of page 47. What do you want me to read, I'll read. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73052	I have a list here as we filed for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73053	Okay, I'll give you this all I have in front of me for insight. It's not a problem. Are you ready to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73054	I am ready to speak, but I'd like to determine this first, since here's a list of how we turned it in. Can I come over and take a look together?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73055	Yes, you can. Here you go. He'll explain the service to those few who were rejected. Please continue the session and explain. It's all clear, sure when you explain these 40 proposals we'll get information by then about those who are rejected and the reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73056	I know we're going to get information from the chairman, but we've made proposals in a certain order, by the thematic groups, so that we don't jump from one to the other, here's the service itself that saw that something was wrong. The first draft law concerns the Brussels Agreement, i.e. the debate, not the "Beeding on Water". Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73057	I'll give you your time back. Here you go again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73058	Thank you. The first proposal was supposed to be the Brussels Agreement, not "Belgrade on Water". I'll have to do as many times as I've done so far as you call it, although it's not right. We're not here often, and we get these types of obstructions all the time. I'm asking your staff at the Secretariat to check it out. So, the first proposal we tabled concerns the Brussels Agreement, not "Belgrade on Water". Did you check? So, ignoring. The issue of "Beograda on Water" is a question of one contract that has practically been made a drug specialis, which out of all the space in the Sava amphitheatre, which is worth about a billion euros, gives the entire area to one UAE investor, who then gets the opportunity to develop business, or build apartments. It invests practically nothing after the apartments are sold in advance, the citizens pay those apartments in advance, then with the money they receive building apartments in "Belgrade on Water". If we take real estate prices in Belgrade, especially building land prices, we come up with that the value of land in the Sava amphitheatre is probably one of the most valuable locations in the Balkans, about a billion euros. If that had been done, if the urban plan and urban project had been done, the state would have earned about a billion euros. Instead, a harmful contract was made in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, where a foreign investor was given the opportunity to build what he liked, without paying the state of Serbia nothing and all we got was a third of the ownership in a construction company. We propose that this harmful law be withdrawn, which practically brings the Beograda Water project up to the level of something that protects the Republic of Serbia, which is not available to any domestic investor and that we practically go back to the beginning, where it is necessary to make an urban plan, see what to do with the buildings so far built and to arrange things so that they work in the interests of Belgrade and Serbia's citizens. While I was the Minister of Business, I didn't see any Arab investors. All these contracts, negotiations were conducted by Mladjan Dinkic at the time and two law offices from Belgrade, one allegedly representing the UAE, another which allegedly represents the interests of the Republic of Serbia. That harmful contract should be withdrawn and we should get back to the beginning, from the urban plan and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73059	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted in favour and no proposal was accepted. Ambassador Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73060	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, you have made this a complete leap, since you can conclude yourself that there is no point in me submitting the draft amendments to the law, and being the first to be "Belgrade on Water", and the next to be about local elections, where we have six, seven proposals, or elections six, seven proposals, and about "Belgrade on Water" two. You're obviously, I have to say, with the intention of mixing this up, in order to interrupt the course of my exposure. So the reason why the opposition, the real opposition, not the opposition satellite, boycotts the elections can be found in how, what are the conditions for holding fair elections. When someone calls you to the election, it's like he's calling you to a football game, say, or a boxing match, where your hands and legs are tied. The citizens of Serbia probably, when they think a little bit about your hands and legs being tied, surely you would not participate in such a match, but would ask for fair and fair rules to be made, by these rules, of course, to participate in the elections and to see who has greater support for the citizens. Now, with the full media darkness, with the control of the elections where we have the unsettled voter lists, where we have the dead to vote, to vote the diaspora that left the country, I personally found this during the elections, simply such elections are not fair. The choices in which we have the intimidation of citizens, the choices in which we have influence on voters so that they have to vote out of fear of losing their jobs, it's not fair and fair elections...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73061	MPs, please. MPs, don't break the Rules of Procedure, you can't do that. You can't do that. Don't break the Rules of Procedure. It's pointless what you're doing, MPs, don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73062	MP Stamenkovic shows you the cards that were inserted, where there are no MPs. You have a lot of cards that have been inserted, you have a lot of cards from the chairman who's been put in, where MPs don't sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73063	That's forbidden by both the Messenger and the internal rules, don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73064	We need to document this for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73065	Do not interfere with the work of MPs. First you interrupt your fellow MP, then...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73066	You see how many cards you have in place, where MPs don't sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73067	MPs, that's forbidden, what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73068	Look at how many cards you've put in where MPs don't sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73069	You can't do that, you can report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can ask for certain services to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73070	You don't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73071	You can't harass MPs, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73072	Chairman, you have no quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73073	Finish your exposure. Everything has its turn, you haven't been here in a long time, and when you finish your exposure, we'll approach whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73074	Chairman, you don't have a quorum, and you have so many cards that you've been inserted into. Well, I guess you'll do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73075	I will, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73076	Well, the cameras are filming you as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73077	I thank you, you've wasted your time wasting your time on stupidity and breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. It doesn't really make any sense, but don't do it. First of all, you don't have a parliamentary group, it says in the Rules of Procedure who can ask for a quorum, you could study it, the head of the parliamentary group, not by taking pictures and harassing colleagues, which is why it's a protest. It's pointless. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one. Your proposal didn't go away. MP Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73078	Thank you, Chairman. You still don't have the quorum. What is proposed in this law is a few things that would lead us to have fair and fair choices. Citizens should know that if the conditions for elections are not fair, then it is pointless to participate in these elections until rules are made that are fair for all participants in the political process. What we have proposed in this law is to allow all citizens to check after the elections whether they voted, or more importantly whether someone voted in their place. So, as citizens today can go to the Ministry of State Administration site and type in their home number and then get a vote at which polling station, this legislative change would allow them to do the same after the election. In this way, transparently all citizens who are in the diaspora could check whether someone voted for them. I personally found a few choices of people who were listed in the voter's list and it was signed next to their name even though they weren't in the country at the time. Also, they vote dead, and I personally convinced myself of that, the deceased citizens, where the vote list is listed as voting, or someone signed for them. This legislative change is easy to implement, would lead to, or would give us full transparency of the electoral process and allow us to fully remove this suspicion from the agenda that votes are made in place of people, i.e. that is to say, voter lists. This change, as well as the other changes we have proposed, is heading towards a fair and fair election. It is important to work fully, to say that the situation with elections in Serbia is not only the result of the government's work since 2012, but we have one continuity from the introduction of a multi-party who is being manipulated with voter lists. So, both in the 1990s, and in the time of the former government, after October 5th and the SNS authorities, these manipulations are common. The citizens probably don't know, we have 6.7, 6.8 million people on the list, and we only have about five million IDs. This clearly tells you there's a big difference and there's a big room for manipulation. This legislative amendment that we have proposed is a legislative amendment that allows us to practically prevent these abuses and that they no longer happen. This would be a big step towards getting fair and fair elections in addition to fixing the situation in the media and allowing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73079	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – four. No proposal accepted. MP Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73080	Thank you, Chairman. We passed that law along with that first law at Beograda on Water, obviously you're going for a jump, so you can break the line of exposure. As regards the Agreement with the United Arab Emirates, the agreement actually favours all investors from the United Arab Emirates. It is, my dear citizens, as if your companies, or if you were going to do business in Germany, and you were to open up a company there and get the support of the state that some parts of the law don't apply to you, and get conditions that domestic investors and domestic businessmen don't have. That's the law of the United Arab Emirates. There's a joke on the Internet, says a guy - I went to Germany and started a company there, i.e. I opened a store and asked the German state to give me a 20 000-euro subsidy for every employee, i asked him not to pay taxes, to build me a store, and that in return, i would transfer the technology of making bureks. Imagine, I was deported. Now, what's happening in Serbia is exactly what this guy is talking about in this joke, which is that these foreign investors are coming to us, getting conditions that domestic businessmen don't have, and thus practically put them in a privileged position compared to all domestic businessmen. We have to stop this practice. One of the first steps should be to abolish all laws that create such a situation and one of them is the law on the privileged position of companies in the United Arab Emirates. I was Minister of Business in 2013 for four months and 23 days. During that time, it was these contracts on "Belgrade on Water", you know this investment, the purchase of the Vojvodina country in Karadjordjevo, then "Bačka" from Sivac, there are a lot of people in Bačka, they know how much the country went literally for. There wasn't a single Arab in the while it was happening. So all these contracts were negotiated by our people, both by the state and by the United Arab Emirates. It tells me then that it's not really about Arab money, but that it's probably about laundering our money that's being laundered through investment funds in the United Arab Emirates. It's something that's inadmissible and this law would practically make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73081	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Four MPs voted for it. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73082	This is another election law, a package of electoral laws, which discusses how to achieve fair and fair conditions for elections. The boycott of the upcoming parliamentary elections conducted by the true opposition in Serbia is in fact an act that we want to achieve fair and fair elections. We don't want the government to change on the street, we don't want any riots, as the headlines say. We don't want any of that. We just want fair and fair elections. Boycott is not the target, boycott is the means. What do we want to achieve by this means? We want to achieve fair conditions and fair conditions for elections, i.e. rules that are good for democracy and parliamentaryism. Among these conditions, that is, those things that need to be fixed are not big and long lists, they are simple things. The first thing is that we have fair access to the media. The opposition does not ask for more access, not even equal access to the ruling coalition. In all countries of the world, it is normal, but it is not normal for the opposition to have no access to the media. The other thing is, we want to get the voter lists sorted out. You have 6.8 million voters on the polling list and you have about five million IDs somewhere. So the difference between the polling list and the number of IDs is 1.7 million and 1.8 million citizens. Well, then it's no wonder that in the election we see them voting dead and voting people who weren't in the country at the time of the vote. I personally established this control of the election material after the presidential election, as well as some other choices. This law would solve a few questions. Let's just say, the question about how dead and non-citizens vote, all we have to do is, after a public election on the Ministry's website, give citizens the opportunity to check through their home numbers whether someone voted in their place, if they didn't vote. So you type in the parent number, as you can do today and check where you vote, and on that basis you see if anyone voted for you. This would significantly improve the situation in Serbia's elections. There would be no manipulations we've had so far and we have to say, there has been in Serbia since the multiparty was introduced, and that's almost 30 years old. So these amendments would improve the electoral process and we think it's very important that they be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73083	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Three MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73084	Thank you, Chairman. Census was reduced a month before the election was called. This reduction in censorship should be achieved by some calling opposition policy options, since with a pure 5% censorship they couldn't do it, they can skip the censorship maybe from 3%. What we have proposed to amend the law is practically fine, but it is not before the elections, or you do not do it for a month before the election is called. The other thing is, we suggested a degree census. So, if an independent political option goes to the polls, then the censorship is 3%. But if he's making a coalition of two political options, then it's 6%. If he's making three political options, he's 10% and so on. We also suggested that the amendments to the law take effect only after these elections. The ruling majority would make it clear that they did not bring these amendments to the law and the reduction of censorship only because they are being threatened by a boycott and that they are going through some opposition group satellite over the censors, but that it is indeed in their interest to fix the election process. Unfortunately, the government was deaf about it. She's been deaf about our amendment, so now we're trying to amend the law by changing the same thing. Since election conditions are not normal, or we have a boxing match in which the real opposition is tied and hands and legs, citizens can clearly see it, on television we are gone, people pass without support in the electoral body who support power in everything they do. So, since that's the situation, I believe that citizens themselves wouldn't participate in such a boxing match, but would ask, since we're meeting voters, we're not afraid, we're asking for fair conditions to be made. Not with our hands and legs tied, but to have one fair fight, so who better to win? Instead, the government does not want any of this and seems to have full EU support in it, because the EU is in fact fully supporting everything the government is doing in Serbia. So, instead of fixing the electoral conditions, what the government is trying to do, afraid of the boycott, is to reduce the electoral censorship, so that these groups can somehow skip it. If you go to elections, besides the authorities, you are either a government satellite or you are an EU satellite or you have a personal interest in keeping your chair. There's no fourth reason. The reason for the boycott is to make fair and fair choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73085	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote. Three MPs voted for it. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Members of Parliament Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73086	Just as the previous, such as the censorship has been reduced by parliamentary elections, so it is reduced by local elections, it is the same logic. In fact, reducing the censorship is a good thing, but I think it's very important that when we reduce the censorship, we introduce a higher censorship, or a degreecensus for coalitions. So, for example, coalitions of two policy options have a 6% censorship, coalitions of three have 10%, etc. What does this matter? Well, on the political scene, we often have situations where a large number of small political options, without any support in the electoral body, which voters know very well, unite with some large political options and thus enter the Republika Srpska Assembly. Here, and here in this assembly of the National Assembly, today in the Assembly Hall there are MPs who could never transfer the censorship. Not to transfer the censorship, they can't get up to one percent. However, when the ruling party joins, then they can enter the Assembly and then after the Assembly they create their parliamentary groups and in fact act parliamentaryism. Let's say, while I'm talking, you're being thrown out by these MPs who are trying to make some senses, to make all of this unserious, and we're talking about serious things. What we have said to avoid this practice, where several small political options that do not have any support in the electoral body attach to a larger political option, so that after the elections they can form several parliamentary groups and that it would look like one serious, large parliamentaryism, where you have a lot of pluralism in the Assembly, we have suggested that the censorship be a steppe. So if you go out on your own, then your threshold is 3%, and if you go into a coalition with someone, the coalition of the two parties is 6%, the coalition of three parties is 10%, four 14%, etc. This would help to clean up the political scene and make a lot of political options in the Assembly that are supported by the electoral body, not MPs who serve to make after the elections a fiction of democracy and pluralism, and now, as I speak, are getting and trying to really humiliate the dignity of the National Assembly, so that citizens do not follow what I'm talking about, but rather deal with who, who, how insults and who better to reach. This is a serious home, where serious things are done that affect all citizens of Serbia and it is very important that we have one large dose of seriousness while we sit here. So, we proposed a step-in censorship and we also suggested that the law enter into force after the election, because changing this law a month before the elections is simply not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73087	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73088	Thank you. The introduction of the notaries also introduced the practice that it is necessary to verify the signature of the notaries and that it is no longer possible to use municipal and court notes, or notaries. This has introduced a major problem in the electoral process, where there are not enough notaries to deal with the work, and we cannot get support, or we cannot verify the signatures for the election in the municipality or in the court. Otherwise, notaries themselves are a completely unnecessary profession. By changing technology, i.e. by removing new technologies, especially blockcane technologies, many citizens, especially programmers, know very well what this is about. By introducing this technology, the notaries as a profession become completely unnecessary. A notary profession should serve that when you sign a contract or declare a will, you do it in one place where it will be realized that it really happened and recorded the time when it happened and then it cannot be deleted afterwards. That's what the notaries are for, just to find out that there's some kind of contract or the fact that you've made a statement of will, like, sign a political option in the election. Now imagine, the progress of technology has made up a blockchain technology that allows exactly what I've been talking about, so it allows without people's participation that if you make such a system work for you in the state, you can register your statements or contracts, without the participation of a man, or notary who also charges you huge fees for your services. This technology exists and could completely replace the notaries and make the whole process completely transparent, that we have complete security and that we don't have to pay this kind of penalty, or fees to the notaries. Of course, the state doesn't do any of that, but resorted to this solution with the notaries. She has made it even more difficult for us to turn to municipal and judicial notaries for the elections, but we have to go to the private sector. What we're looking for in this law is that this restriction is lifted and that we practically allow the overta of the signature to be done both in municipalities and in courts. This would improve the election process. Otherwise, citizens probably don't know, because they don't have a team, when the elections start, all the notaries, because there are relatively few for the whole Republic of Serbia, for the elections, all the notaries work for the ruling coalition for the first few days after the election, so that they can't be the first to hand over the list, and all the other lists simply can't come to order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73089	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73090	From this way you call it, it obviously needs to be for the citizens that this is a leap, because I don't know why I would suggest judges after the election. So I suggested 40 points of the agenda that go in logical continents. This is completely mixed up now, but what to do is this is also proof that our boycott of the Assembly, of all the meetings of the Assembly, actually makes sense. Like this throw that happens when I talk. The reason we're boycotting the assembly is exactly this. As for the Law on Judges, one amendment has been made to the Law which has been made that judges are not subject to the same rules as all the other judges. So the presidents of the courts who are politically elected, or elected by this body, or the ruling majority, do not refer to them as rules, let's say that when you fill out enough training and it's time for your retirement, that your office as judge ceases and that you retire when and for all the other judges, they also have special rules that extend that time. The reason it was entered is to tighten the control of the courts through the President of the Courts. That's what lawyers know very well, and many citizens who have had to turn to the courts. This amendment of the law, in fact, solves the issue, or puts the presidents of the courts in the same position as all the other judges, since that president of the courts should be the same as all his colleagues, that the same rules apply to him or her, and that he cannot be elected to that post more times. So, we had one good solution before, but the partocrat changed it so that it could control the judiciary even better. Let me repeat, this change requires that the presidents of the courts put themselves in the same plane as all the other judges, and that was, in fact, the solution in the original law, but the ruling majority changed it. What's this all about? You know that in Serbia we have virtually controlled all the institutions of the system and the most difficult thing is the control of the prosecution, the police and the judiciary, these judicial authorities, because through this control, in fact, you are destroying the rule of law. This thing with the presidents of the courts is actually one of the kinds of control and addictions of the president of the ruling majority, and that's why we'd change that, so we put the presidents of the courts in the same position as all the other judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73091	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73092	Thank you, Chairman. This is a law on the basics of education. What we predicted by that law is to determine a few things. The first is that education is the right of children and that child education should not depend on the economic strength of parents. What we have today is a very expensive education, even though the state says it's free. Where's it expensive? Parents know, book sets are very expensive, meals for kids who go to school are expensive, not to mention these excursions, only when we get to sports sections, for example, or in rural areas, the cost of transporting children to schools. By this law, we would, in fact, be able to solve all these issues and make education a real child. This would certainly have a significant impact on improving the birth rate, where those parents who could have more children, who wanted to have them, would have more children because they wouldn't have the financial burden of their education. What do we suggest? One, we propose that all textbooks in the Republic of Serbia be free of charge for parents, i.e. children, and on the burden of budgets. This state of Serbia can pay, this is not that much of an expense. We calculated that if textbooks change every four years, it was some cost of 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You'll admit, it's a very, very small expense compared to the whole budget, and a huge benefit for parents and children. So, all the textbooks would be printed and paid by the state that doesn't mean that the authors could still not compete with their textbooks and choose the best textbooks for children, only the state would take over the cost of getting these textbooks. That would result in all children having equal access to parent education, which, with their average incomes of 40,000 thousand, say dinars, many, especially in southern Serbia and much less, very difficult to bear, say a burden of 10, 15, even 20,000 dinars for students' equipment. This law also provides for preschool education, meaning kindergartens to be a burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget. If we do that, it means that kindergartens, all kindergartens in Serbia would be on the burden of the state for all children, already today we have a situation that a large part of the cost is on the burden of the state, mostly some 80% of the cost of the salaries of the state, and we would also have that 20% to actually be on the burden of the state and to make the situation for every child to be a place in kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73093	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73094	Since this issue of free textbooks extends through several laws, this first one was the basics of education. This second law I'm talking about right now is about basic education. We've practically made the same changes in that law. The changes are that for all children in Serbia, textbooks are free of charge and that the burden of their cost is borne by the Republic of Serbia. This isn't a big expense. The state of Serbia can bear this cost and simply pay its children textbooks. Here, I'll give you some examples from the budget so the citizens can see it clearly. For example, it separates about a billion euros from the budget to state subsidies annually. So at all levels when you take a consolidated budget, activated guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, these are the public enterprises run by party personnel, making huge losses, are also billions of euros. Then, punishments and pens, for example, for the resolution of courts, where workers in state institutions are doing damage to citizens, then citizens get penalties through court proceedings and compensate for damages, we have about 30 billion dinars in 2018, which is over 250, 260m euros to you. That's a lot more than it takes to print textbooks for all our children, so this proposal, we're actually asking the state to take on that cost. As we all know all citizens know, those who do not know should pay attention to that Serbia dies in front of our eyes, our children are either leaving the country or not born in enough numbers, a large number of our children are born abroad, so we have no record of it. We should do everything we can to improve the situation for parents in Serbia, to enable all young couples who have no children, to have children by not putting a large cost of their children's education on them. The biggest cost of it is textbooks. However, these are costs, for example, of a warm meal, we also predict that each child in Serbia has a quality warm meal at school. Afterwards, the transportation of children to school, then different sections including the sports section, that also sports sections, or sports education, which is extremely important for the growing up of each child, is an integral part of basic education, not that parents have to pay specifically for their children to practice sports. We need to take education seriously, it's the future of a nation, if we don't do it, the consequences are here, as you see catastrophic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73095	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73096	Thank you. This is part of an education package and for preschool education that has been established on the basis of the last few decades that is extremely important for child education, that at that early age, even from about three, four, five years old, a very important time in child development and that children who are stimulated at that time actually achieve much better results in life. To create a system in which all preschool education is paid out of the budget and free of charge for all parents and all children. If we really say that children are our priority, if we really think and want to say that education is Serbia's future, because that's how we prepare our children for the world, then we need to make programmes that will support children and support education. Among other things, one of the problems in education itself is the extremely low salaries of educators. That part would have to be resolved during the discussion on the Republic of Serbia's budget, somehow always being denied when we talk about it. These laws here I'm talking about today talk about the financial side of pressure on parents where someone who has an average salary of 30,000 or 40,000, net salary, 40,000 dinars a month, has big problems paying for preschool education for their children, although they only pay 20% of the total price. That 20% comes out often at five, six thousand, and sometimes on more dinars a month. Parents know that very well. So, we want this law to enable preschool education for all children. Of course, an important part of that education and what grandparents do to all our children, where they provide a significant part of that education when children are young, parents do. In addition, however, it is also necessary to enable children to enter kindergartens, to get quality education, wonderful educators who work there, who are really interested in getting that knowledge and somehow learn how to function in society. The cost that parents have for this is too great and by this law we are actually taking that cost to the level of the Republic of Serbia, or to the budget. The cost is very low compared to the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia can bear the cost. So if we really care about the education of our children, then we will support these changes and make a system in which education is right and the child costs no parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73097	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73098	Thank you. This is now the law on secondary education, so we went through the basics of education, primary education of primary school, preschool, now secondary education. We also think about high school. All secondary schools in Serbia, all textbooks should be on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that the cost is not paid by parents, or children. Also to a warm meal and to transport to school, to cost all of this to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This isn't a big expense. This cost is relatively low compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and this cost of the state of Serbia can bear. We have accounted for in the bill, it says, that the cost amounts to around 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's not something that the budget can't pay and the question is why the ruling majority and these authorities are calling out this much, here's what we've been talking about for four years, not once on the agenda. The ruling majority is obviously not interested in improving the electoral process, preventing theft, editing the voter's list, and not being truly free of charge for our children's kindergartens and schools. You can't hide, or the government can't hide behind the fact that it costs too much and we can't pay for it. Since the analysis clearly shows that it is possible. The textbooks are not bought every year again for all children, but are made one cycle of four years of change. When you do, the cost is that 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we can pay for that. Education is Serbia's future. If we make education cost no parents anything, but that education is the right of a child and that the budget of the Republic carries it, then we'll get a situation where parents who want to have children or have more children, second, third, fourth children, will not have the financial burden to educate those children, so they'll make it easier to decide to do so. Of course, this won't apply to all people, some people don't want to have children, but these laws apply, namely to improving the situation, to young couples who want children, and they have a financial problem financing this schooling, because the average salary of 30, 40,000 dinars, which applies to most Serbian citizens, the cost of textbooks is too high. To give 15,000 dinars, to pay children excursions, a warm meal, transportation, so these are really big, big costs, especially in rural areas. We have a chance to change that, and it's really weird that the ruling majority doesn't even want to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73099	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No proposal accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović and Branka Stamenkovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. Does MP Radulovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73100	Thank you. Now that dual education bill, that's very important to us. In Serbia, Germany has become a huge employer, so we are approaching the figures of some 100,000 jobs, mostly for cable installers, so for cheap labour. Our children are being dragged to Germany. The nurses lead directly from high schools, medical school graduates, directly to Germany, and here they open up factories for cheap labour, and that, as I said, is mostly for cable riders. This dual education law was made in the interest of German companies. It is also partly made in the interest of a partocracy in power, which through it looks at how to push our children into the public sector so that they can, in that way, part of their children, and not ours, draw money from the budget. This dual education is not for Serbia, Serbia needs one complete reform of the education system. Making an education system for German companies is not something in Serbia's interest. Citizens probably don't know, or a small number, that 60% of the textbook market in Serbia is held by the German company Clet. This is simply an amazing piece of information, I don't know any other sovereign country of the world where a foreign force, an imperial force, printing textbooks for their children. So this is one situation that has not been recorded anywhere in Europe, we have it in Serbia. When one education minister opposed it, his secretary of state got beat up. We had the direct involvement of the German ambassador and the German state, which pushed the government of the Republic of Serbia to make something like this possible. We need to get out of this colonial status and stop, the state of Serbia, from protecting Germany's interests in Serbia. Germany, as you can see in many speeches by Angela Merkel, needs labour and that workforce, i.e. it thinks it gets from the Balkans, where practically our children, the qualified workforce leads to Germany, and here they intend to hire today unskilled cheap labour, which practically works for a minimumer, and for each job, the state gives them subsidies that are at 10,000 euros per job. Domestic businessmen can't get that. So this dual education bill is one step in that direction to allow German companies to have the same environment as in Germany. We also have an incredible situation that our National Employment Service has our people's employment programmes in Germany. We have to stop this practice. We're not a German colony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73101	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. National MP Saša Radulović suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from public funds users. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73102	Thank you, Chairman. Citizens know that we have had a reduction in wages and pensions, we think of a withdrawal from wages and pensions but a reduction and that the government has defended that move, the government has defended this move, by saying that the budget is empty and that by reducing wages and pensions it will actually consolidate the budget and by consolidation of the budget that then the state of Serbia will stand on, whether, stable legs and continue to function. If we had a look at how the state had reduced that deficit, because a man would think they had tightened the belt, if they had put order into the public sector, if they had broken up with corruption, if they had created a system that works well for the citizens, that they had abolished party employment, that there was no burza economy, they would think that it had happened. In fact, the following happened, the citizens remember, although no one reminds them of it, so I'm going to have to increase the VAT, from 8% to 10%, it's the lower rate, and the upper rate from 18% to 20%, and that's the total annual achievement of getting out of citizens' pockets, that the state draws an additional 55 billion dinars. That's almost 500m euros somewhere, half a billion euros. Then, that the profit tax has been increased for all the companies in Serbia and that it has been increased from 10% to 15%, means a third. And that from that state a year, it takes about 35 billion dinars, that's about 300 million euros, a little bit less than that. Then, all excise duties are increased, and citizens know it, on gasoline, on cigarettes, that's 25 billion dinars a year, almost 200m euros. Then, an electricity excise was introduced, for all citizens it is 17 billion dinars a year. Public sector income cuts were about 10 billion a year, pension cuts around 20. Now, on the other hand, the state has continued to subsidise, a billion euros are given to foreign investors, they are given land, they are paid lower taxes, they are not paying contributions, subsidies of a billion euros, and that is a huge growth and we have activated guarantees, and that is the irresponsibility of public enterprises. All of this tells us that actually the pay cut was unnecessary, that the state should have just put order into the public sector, which it didn't do, but, as I showed just to put my hand in the pocket of citizens and businesses. By this law, all public servants, officers, teachers would be returned to what was taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73103	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for four, against those who are abstentions, among the 130 messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73104	Thank you, Chairman. So that's the same argument in pension cuts. The state practically kidnapped pensioners, i.e. totaling nearly 800m euros for four years of law enforcement. What we propose to this law is that everything that's been taken is returned to the pensioners, so that every pension increases by as much as it's been taken a month, so that in the next four years, we make up for everything that's been taken from them. From what I was talking about at the previous point, it's clear that reducing pensions, cutting wages, was not necessary. What did it actually accomplish? What was that for? A big difference has been made between 60% of pensioners, who have extremely low pensions, which have nothing taken and pensioners who have higher incomes, or they are not big, but are bigger than this other group for the 40%, they were kidnapped pensions. In public, there's an extended story of how, for God's sake, it takes people who get pensions of 100,000 dinars a month. You know what, the number of these people is very, very small, and in fact the weight of pension cuts is borne by those pensioners whose pensions are somewhere between 30,000 and 40,000 dinars a month and those whose pensions are between 40,000 and 50,000 dinars. So we've had so many pensions that we've had to take pensions, so it's not about rich pensioners, it's about a lot of injustice being done to a large number of our citizens. Then we had the next absurd situation. For example, you have one household with two pensioners each with a pension of, say, 20,000 dinars, so that total household incomes are 40,000 dinars. Then you have another household where you have a pensioner who receives 40,000 dinars, and the other spouse doesn't work, so the total income of that pensioner was 40,000 dinars. Now, from this first household, the government took nothing, and from this second, it took 22% to the difference between 25,000 and what they received. This clearly shows how unwarranted this move was, very badly done and in fact made a conflict between pensioners without any need, since the Republic of Serbia's budget did not need it. The state could have put order into the public sector. She didn't do it. Instead, she put her hand deep in the pockets of the economy and the citizens. We hereby suggest that all that kidnapped money be returned to the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73105	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – no one, abstentioned – none of 131. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the opinion committee to identify the facts relating to the irregularities in the vote and circumstances which led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017 in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73106	Thank you, Chairman. This concerns the presidential election and the town of Sjenica, where we've established, and by being informed by the Shadows, that someone voted in their place. So we had lists of people who weren't in the country at the time of the presidential election and people who were in the country, but didn't go to the polls, that in the election book someone signed up for them and put in a ballot. That's the tip we got. I personally found, during the controls, the dead who voted and the non-citizens, and it was written that they voted, so they just proposed this poll committee, it's been a proposal since 2017, to put together a survey committee that will review this election material and determine if this is really true. Chairman, you can hear the music.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73107	I'm asking the MPs to turn off the music on the phone so we can secure normal session work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73108	Citizens should know, MPs are playing music as the MP speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73109	We don't know who's letting go, buddy, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73110	Find it, it's not that hard. What we have established, i.e. received reports from citizens that people who were either not in the country in the Municipality of Sjenica and citizens know at all, the Shadows know that a large number of them did not go to the elections and that clearly someone signed for them in the voter list that stands there on the table when you enter to vote. All citizens know, they have to sign, and he's been putting those ballots in the ballot boxes. This is a kind of electoral theft that the Assembly should be interested in. It's interesting that the prosecution didn't respond at all to our criminal charges, so the only thing we have left is to schedule a survey committee that will be representatives of all political parties and then determine if this really happened. This is why we boycott the elections that are coming to us. The conditions for the election aren't fair, the rules aren't fair. We have an election theft. That's exactly what this committee is talking about. This is not just a question of this government, we have this situation since the introduction of multilaterals in Serbia. Boycott himself isn't the goal. We don't want to change power on the street, we want fair and fair elections. It's like a boxing match they'd go into with their hands and legs tied in. That's not what we're gonna do anymore. We demand fair electoral conditions. This committee of inquiry could solve a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73111	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – no one with abstentions – has a total of 132. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session with the point of the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to see the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and to determine whether the election material contained anomalies and what they consisted of, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73112	Thank you. It is in the citizens' interest to know that their elections are fair and fair, that there is no electoral theft, that no one votes instead of people who didn't go to the elections, but that they really record who voted. It's the basis of democracy. I'm sure both the voters of the government and the opposition's voters want fair electoral conditions. Since we have a lot of evidence, criminal charges that have been filed, which talk about people voting one, that is, votes instead of people who didn't go to the polls and that, above all, is being voted instead of the dead who are still in the voter's list. It is voted instead of a diaspora that is out of the country, which is practically impossible to vote abroad. All our children in the diaspora know how hard it is to sign up, have enough people at a certain consulate where there's an open vote, so they can get organized and come to vote there. So, it's systematically choking, to repeat, not only by this government, but we have the continuity of asphyxiation from the introduction of multi-party in Serbia. So, let's do a detailed analysis of the entire election, of all the materials, of the records, as well as of the voter lists themselves, to determine in these voter lists who signed up, whether others signed for people, whether they voted dead, whether people who weren't in the country at that time voted. This is very important for the whole electoral process in Serbia, for democracy in Serbia. It is amazing that, in addition to all this evidence, the EU says that, despite our hands and legs being tied and what is happening to the electoral theft, we should go to the elections. This says that the EU fully, above all, supports this power in everything it does in Serbia, because, as we can see, it satisfies their interests in cheap labour. It is a key thing for Germany, which is an imperial force, which manages the entire Balkans within the EU. We need to make fair choices. We want there to be no theft in the election, to finally determine all the machinations and set up a system that will work in the future. This and this kind of survey board would do exactly that. When we set fair conditions, whoever wins should form power and lead Serbia. When you steal, then you have illegal authority. When they vote dead, when they vote people who aren't in the country, they're not legitimate elections. This committee of inquiry could lift that suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73113	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, abstentioned - none, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - the proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine whether during the elections for MPs, held on 24 April 2016, elections were stolen, or whether votes in the local elections, held on the same day, were won by opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties stolen and registered as votes to the electoral lists "Alexandar Vukic - Serbia wins", "Ivica Dačić - The Socialist Party of Serbia, Unique Serbia - Dragan Markovic Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj - the Serbian Radical Party", which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73114	Thank you. We found an interesting thing in 2016, in previous parliamentary elections, which is that the ruling majority in these elections, which were parallel to local and republican elections, won 300,000 votes in the republican elections more than in the local elections. So it turns out that 300,000 people who voted for the SNS and the government in these local elections, that 300 people, who voted for the opposition, actually voted for power in the republican elections. This tells us about voice-over amongst the political options. We had incredible situations, let's say, that in Mladenov, practically all the voters who voted for the White Only Strong Group in the local elections, i.e. in the republican elections, actually voted for the SNS in the local elections. What we want to prevent in the future is that we have such an agreed vote. For example, these next elections could make one list, for example, with LDP, Cedomir Jovanovic and these few other MPs who have no support in the electoral body, and then the SNS in those elections casts votes and that some of its voters are directing to vote for the opposition, because these results in 2016 tell us that these things were happening, that they were directing support for some opposition options to skip the census. Even with this 3% discounted censorship, some of these options that are the core satellite of the government and they call themselves the opposition, they can't skip the censorship. The government is expected to see to support them in these elections, to focus part of its party machinery on voting for opposition lists, in order to somehow reach that 3 per cent magic figure. That's gonna be really hard. The analysis of these election results in 2016 could make it clear that such things are actually happening and that we are therefore taking some set of steps to prevent such practice from happening in the future. The government is afraid of boycotts, because the boycott will give them a Assembly in which the SNS and SPS will have over three-quarters of MPs. So over three-quarters of the MPs will be theirs, so they will no longer be able to hide behind alleged pluralism and democracy, but they will have to, or the citizens will be absolutely clear that they are the only ones sitting in the Republika Srpska Assembly. That's why you're reducing the censorship that happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73115	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, abstention - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to review the non-remarkation of the 100th anniversary of the Thessaloniki Front breakthrough, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2018. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73116	Thank you. Serbian citizens probably don't know, since it wasn't in the media, this Assembly did not mark a hundred years of the Thessaloniki Front in 2018. We want to be on the board of inquiry to determine why this happened. The MP group "Enough Has Been" has asked the state in a decent way to mark the breach of the Thessaloniki Front and to honor all the people who have built their lives into our freedom. We asked the President of the Assembly to schedule a session, a solemn session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, at which we would pay our respects and celebrate all of our people who gave their lives in the freedom that Serbia enjoys today. It is amazing that the assembly has disobeyed the request, that the ruling majority has disobeyed the request, that they did not want to schedule the session, that the state of Serbia has not marked anything in a decent way about this big, big, anniversary. Serbia has borne the greatest burden in the victory of the Allies in World War I, the burden in people's lives, we lost a third of the population, and the Serbian Parliament did not find it appropriate to schedule a formal session at which to honor our ancestors. Citizens saw the state being treated in Paris, as a winning country, as the country that suffered the greatest sacrifice in World War I and where the president of Serbia sat, and where Germany sat, representatives of Kosovo Albanians and others. It was a great slap to the Republic of Serbia, but this slap much less pain, we will not forget it, but the slap that this Assembly made, that it did not mark in a decent way, at least with a solemn session, if not more than that, marking the breach of the Thessaloniki Front, and in 2018 it was a hundred years. It seems as if the government is ashamed of our glorious history, as if celebrating the breach of the Thessaloniki Front, so that those who lost the First World War might have something against it. I think it's necessary to have a survey board to discuss this, so this never happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73117	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Branka Stamenkovic: Rules of Procedure) You have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. (Branka Stamenkovic: Why don't I? Because we're voting and we're in the process. Next time. Branka Stamenkovic: Where does it say? ) National MP Saša Radulović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Parliament of the People's Parliament of Tatjan Macura on 15 December 2017. Does Ambassador Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73118	Thank you. Chairman, you have no quorum and no breach of the Rules of Procedure. There aren't even 100 MPs in the O.R., let alone most of them. You know you have to have a majority, 127. You don't have a quorum. Cameras, I'd like the cameras to show the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73119	We have a quorum, colleague Radulovic, just keep explaining, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73120	You don't have a quorum, it's visible with the naked eye, I can't fix it. The chairman refuses, we break the law all the time. You don't even give a breach to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73121	You're going to have a hell of a time, instead of explaining this proposal, but whatever you want, say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73122	Well, no, you can count that you have less than 100 MPs in the O.R., so your quorum just isn't there. Oh, please count the cards. Count the cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73123	Do you want to further explain, colleague Radulovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73124	I want to explain, but you need to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73125	You can't make demands here. You here, as a matter of fact, you here want to determine in which order the proposals go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73126	You know, the naked eye is visible, indefensible, presidencies. It's indefensible what you're doing. Well, look, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73127	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73128	Here come the MPs now. This is indefensible, you have so many cards in here, look.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73129	I'm putting this bill to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - zero, against - two, of 126 MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the origin of the money that Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin bought an apartment in Belgrade, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73130	Thank you, Chairman. The MPs are slowly returning to the O.R., which is a good thing. Secretary of Defense Alexander Vulin... Here, they're getting it, but okay, we'll hold on. Minister Vulin explained to the public that he bought an apartment in Belgrade for 230,000 euros and that he had no origin of the money, and then he said that he had received the money from his aunt in Canada. There seems to be a lot of good aunts in Serbia. Some of them have their aunt's couch, some of them look like aunts from Canada, and that he brought in, practically, that she gave him that money. There's only one small problem, there's no evidence of that money that his aunt in Canada gave him, because it would be normal for him to get the money, say, through an account, that he was legally put into Serbia, that, for example, he took it in cash, so he reported it, say, to the state of Canada when he was going out and to the state of Serbia when he came in. But the minister doesn't have any of that. Or, say, at least show us the plane tickets when he traveled from Canada from Serbia, 20 of them at least, when he was carrying that money from Canada. We don't have any of this. Now, we need a survey board, since the police didn't want to determine that, and neither does the Anti-Corruption Agency, any state authorities. We seem to need a polling board of the Republika Srpska Assembly to determine how Minister Vulin introduced 200,000 euros from his aunt in Canada to the Republic of Serbia. We know there's a limit by which when you bring some money into the country, you have to report it to customs, so now if that money is, say, more than 10,000 euros, then that money had to report to customs. (Jorge Komlenski: So where are these messengers?) ) However, he did not do any of this, and it had to be practically no sign of that money, it was 200,000 euros. (Jorge Komlensky: "Bongago"! Lopurdo! The MPs of the ruling majority here earn, speak, speak to the MP as if he were a bastard, as if he were a fraud. I'm talking about a simple polling committee that would have determined that it was Minister Vulin who put 200,000 euros into the Republic of Serbia, allegedly the money he received from his aunt, and that it was not registered anywhere, not in our customs, not through an account. So there's simply no sign of that money. This is an interesting thing, since we have, Serbia has been robbed in three waves. There's a lot of money coming out of Serbia, here, for 30 years. It turns out no one's guilty, and everyone's rich around Serbian citizens who look down on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73131	I'm putting this bill to the vote. I conclude the vote: for three, against four, abstention - one of 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic proposed, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the Public Enterprise of the Elektroprivred of Serbia, as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the Public Enterprise of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73132	Thank you, Chairman. This now refers to public enterprises in Serbia that record huge losses. In particular, the loss of EPS stems from the fact that, in addition to the losses they have in the network, a large amount of electricity is not paid every year, or electricity is delivered, but is not paid. It's hundreds of millions of euros every year. Over a period of about 10 years, it is measured in billions of euros, huge money. Since it is repeated over and over again, and the partocracy is in fact elected by the directors of public enterprises, in this case by the EPS, it is obviously necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take over its supervisory role and start to control the business of the EPS in order to see and determine who does not pay electricity for hundreds of millions of euros, because these are certainly not pensioners and they are certainly not citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or a huge number of them. It must be one minority that is actually arching the vast resources of the Republic of Serbia and not paying for it. So we have to have a principle that all citizens have to carry out their obligations and all companies have to carry out their obligations, not that the state of Serbia, or the taxpayers must and do the EPS so that the EPS can settle its obligations. Now, and that's where the doping came about, so the doping doesn't go directly, but the EPS takes loans, because of these credits, mainly for the sake of domestic economy, that is, most of the money goes to foreign companies when the EPS or any public enterprise, when we build roads, for example, it doesn't go directly, but the EPS can't repay those loans, so the state of Serbia has to pay, after giving guarantees for the loan, it has to pay those loans, and then it's the hundreds of millions of euros that go through the budgets every year, which Serbia's citizens pay. The state of Serbia is a rich country. We have a lot of resources. We don't need anyone's help. What we need to do is take the colonizers off our backs first. It is in our case, unfortunately, Germany, and to stop the partyocracy, which destroys the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which has taken and controlled all public enterprises and is causing enormous damage. The poll committee could clearly show to Serbian citizens what it is doing within the EPS and how incompetent party personnel in power operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73133	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—no one, of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reason for the huge losses suffered by Er Serbia, the commitments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihad Airways have to do with Er Serbia, the total business loss from 2013 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to Er Serbia in the same period and the harmfulness of the contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Etihad and the UAE, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73134	So this is the survey board on Er Serbia's business. Citizens do not know, as the media does not inform them that Er Serbia is making huge losses every year and that these losses are compensated by citizens of the Republic of Serbia by large subsidies from Er Serbia. It is interesting that in 2013, JAT led home management in the first half of the year and made a loss of about ten million euros in those first half of the year, and then Etihad's management came in the second half of 2013 and made a loss that was three times bigger, 35 million euros, and such business continued on every year. So domestic management was much more successful than foreign management. The state of Serbia, instead of introducing order into JAT, does the departisation, does the list of assets, assess the value of the assets, makes the work place systematization, does the things that any host who takes care of their own, has handed over JAT "Ethyhad" to use as a bank. Huge salaries are paid by ER Serbia, and not by domestic workers, but by foreign management. Harmful contracts are signed that are good for Etihad and harmful for ER Serbia. Etihad rents planes at high prices. The business of ER Serbia, at the moment, and the management itself that runs it, is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. Serbia is needed by a national carrier. The way he needs to be taken care of, he needs to be professionalized, departisated and then carried out on the Stock Exchange. Make one airline that works. Our people are capable of doing so, only the parties in power are not only this one, but also the former government and those before it. No one did, and no one does, seems to know how to bring order. We know how order is being introduced and this survey board could open up this big public discussion and show how it is possible to introduce order "in ER Serbia" and how it is possible to make a company standing on its feet and which does not make big losses. Citizens probably don't know, again because the media doesn't inform them, that Etyhad is in big trouble, that Etyhad also gets huge subsidies from the state, not our country, but their countries, and that it thinks about what to do next. So having a survey board on this is very important for the survival of JAT, i.e. "ER Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73135	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for four, against one, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by "Zelezar Smederevo" from 2014 to today, the total amount of State aid granted to "Smederevo" in the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the business of "Zelezare", which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73136	Thank you, Chairman. These proposals for supplementing the agenda show practically what a public sector public reporting is, especially in public enterprises and how much it cost Serbian citizens. From this you can clearly see that the reduction in wages and pensions was actually completely unnecessary, that the state was actually going to introduce order, and it didn't. Zelezara Smederevo is under the party management of the rules of huge losses, and then they introduced foreign management that began to make us lose more. In the end, they sold "The Iron" to the Chinese, why, so that the Chinese would continue to arch electricity at privileged prices to pollute the environment, the citizens of Smederev can't live on it. It's hundreds of millions of euros. It's a huge amount of money that's been taken out of "The Iron" at the time when the government promised that the new management would impose order, so they paid huge salaries and compensations to management, and then the management still sued the Republic of Serbia and received money before the court, another tens of millions of euros, so that the state of Serbia would give them extra money for poor management. It's chosen power, and it's facts. That management has done things that are not done in business, no business has put up with it. Their personal companies were suppliers of "The Irons", so the management, which manages "The Irons", obtained through its personal companies abroad, was a supplier of "The Irons", and through it drew hundreds of millions of euros from Serbia's citizens' pockets. The state then had to make up for all this practically by covering the budget gap. This is just one example, big examples, how much money was thrown into the well instead of putting it into order and creating a system that works. When I was a minister of the economy, those four months and 23 days, I showed how order was introduced, how order could be introduced. Imagine, the same people who worked in the system, when you give them new rules, they start acting normal. For each job, we've determined what we expect from this job, how we measure the work effect, control all of it, and, imagine, these same people have started to function like this. So order can be introduced. What is missing is the will, and that is the will of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73137	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 130 MPs against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey to determine the reason for the huge losses incurred by the public company "Srbigas", as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the public undertaking "Srbigas" began from the establishment of the company in 2005 until today, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73138	Thank you. "Srbigas" is another example where the enormous taxpayers' money disappears without the government doing anything about it. The government's job would be to bring order. "Srbigas" from year to year makes huge losses. He sometimes makes these financial tricks a year in which he makes some profits, and then returns to great losses, as the business of "Serbiagas" is making huge losses. Let's say, unlike the EPS, whose business is a positive result, and the negative result is that they don't charge electricity, that is, there are huge claims that are then not charged, and they're not going to tell us who these consumers are that don't pay for electricity. In the case of "Srbiagas" only business does not work. We pay extremely expensive gas from Russia. In addition, we handed over all the gas findings in Serbia to NIS, which practically draws gas and oil in the interests of the Russian state and Russian authorities, too, without many benefits per state of Serbia. With regard to this gas, "Srbigas", and most know it, it makes huge losses year after year. This polling committee suggests whether, in front of MPs, it is part of their work, a large part of their work, citizens may not know, MPs would be controlling, or overseeing executive power. The congregation doesn't do that. We didn't have a single survey board. Look, for four years, the fourth year is the composition of this assembly, and that no survey committee has had any topics and that we determine the facts and that the Assembly is practically doing its work of supervision. You know, the work of the MPs is not only to sit in these assembly benches and participate in the oustings and noises that the ruling majority here is doing, but also to do the job of talking to citizens on the ground, working on congregation committees, overseeing the executive power, overseeing the work of the public sector, doing all these things. The MPs do not do any of this and we have a completely cemented partocracy in which the party in power, i.e. the party's summit, controls both legislative, executive, and judicial power. We have one branch of government. It's not democracy. So all of these suggestions that we're making today, the ruling majority rejects each of them, means none of them accept that we're even going in, because if things aren't as I show them, one such polling board is an ideal opportunity for the government to show what they're afraid of.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73139	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for four, among the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the privatisation and sale of the shares and assets of the PKK and its subsidiaries to companies from the United Arab Emirates, Al Dahri for 105m euros, which damaged citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia by several times the amount of real value of the total assets of the PKK and of the dependent companies, as well as the result of such harmful sales, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73140	Thank you. Citizens have probably forgotten, since it is not in the media, the PKK is privatised, i.e. the property of the PKK has been sold and it has been sold for something like 100m euros. To figure out what a small amount it is, only a piece of land on the ground bridge is worth more than that. So, only one single plot, and the PKK has parcels all over Belgrade, is worth more than 100m euros. The state of Serbia bought Copernicus through Telecom, e.g. - cable operator and paid 200m euros, and 100m euros were received for the PKK. This clearly tells us it's about another robbery privatisation. So, we've had the last 30 years in three waves of robbery of the Republic of Serbia, and each of us has eaten the citizens about the same amount. It's about tens of billions of euros. We had a robbery privatisation during the 1990s and Serbia's robbery, especially the pension fund, then during the former government from October 5th to 2012, not to mention all of them, from C Market, via Luke Belgrade and countlessly many, not 24 controversial privatisations, a thousand controversial privatisations that destroyed the domestic economy, to this new robbery. You have a report from a World Organisation called Global Fanensil Integrated, which monitors the illegal withdrawal of money from countries in the world. She found that about four billion euros are illegally withdrawn from Serbia annually. In 10 years, that's 40 billion euros. That's Serbia's GDP. It's the size of the Republic of Serbia's economy. In order to finally put an end to it, we need to at least one survey committee to actually clear up what happened and ask the tough questions of the finance minister, the economy minister - why do they privatise the PKK in such a harmful way? We have to do the same with the other one. Enough is enough, if it gets voter support in fair elections, not on those who were staged falsely, but in fair elections, it will conduct polling committees for all of Serbia's looting privatisations and citizens will be able to see what really happened and how they were robbed. So this is something we owe to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this PKB survey board could be the first step. Your mouth is full of stories about robbery privatisations, so prove that you're really interested to know what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73141	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for four, among the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the bankruptcy carried out over the RDB Bor, the reasons for the huge losses incurred by RTB Bor, the total amount of State aid granted and the harmfulness of the plan for the reorganisation of RTB Bor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73142	Thank you. The citizens of Bora know, most in Serbia a little less, but the citizens of Bora know how much RTB Bor was robbed before copper reserves were sold to the Chinese. So, we had one director of RTB Bora, Spaskovski's name, who was the director during the former government, as the ruling majority like to say – the yellow authorities, he was in position G17, like many members of the ruling majority who are sitting here today in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who practically destroyed RTB Bor. He made huge losses, and then ran through bankruptcy, led to bankruptcy, went into bankruptcy, and then watched him wipe it all out, and over a billion euros went missing from the books. He's done so much damage in this set up bankruptcy where many have lost their claim, a large part of the domestic economy. We owe it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to determine exactly what that former G17 business looked like, which then became the SNS position. These incompetent party personnel obviously have no problem flying from one government to another government and continuing to do harm to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. After that bankruptcy RTB Bor was sold to a Chinese company. In the privatisation, i.e. the sale sold assets rather than companies and sold all the copper reserves measured at over 100 billion euros. In several new locations, the citizens of Bora know all this, the state of Serbia practically gave it all without earning any of it, from the sale of RTB Bora, it received some 300m euros that were not enough to cover all the costs of RTB. During the operation of Spaskovski and the time for which he declared bankruptcy was also made this melting room which is a huge colossal failure whose price is over half a billion euros, which is not suitable for RTB Bora's needs and there is a Canadian company pulling out big money and I think it was pulled out in co-operation with then-partocracies in power, which was G17. This is one big opportunity for MPs to perform their duties, to oversee the executive power and public enterprises a little bit, and to determine that there have been these catastrophic failures, and how is it possible that one Spaskovski, with whom I had a major conflict when I was a minister and I pushed him into order, how is it possible that this is happening and that no one in the country has reacted for years?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73143	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the operation of the entire Serbian dedicated industry, especially with HK Krusik AD Valjevo, with the company GIM D.O.O. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73144	Thank you. This is now another example in a series of examples. It's about the dedicated industry now, it's about Krusik. Many things were made public, so it would be, I think, very useful not only but also instructive for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to bring this problem to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to talk publicly, transparently and openly about the business of Krusik here. What we know from both the public and many documents that are given to the public is that Krusik sold weapons below the price of a private company that was related to the father of the police minister, or interior minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic, that this company, which is called GIM, was actually getting weapons at low prices, and was selling at high prices. So, instead of being "Kruik" has all the money from that job, we needed it, looks like the father of the interior minister, to get into the job. Now, this would be a great opportunity, if in front of the citizens of Serbia, the government showed that what I'm talking about right now is not true, because believe me, I wish it wasn't true. It would be much better for Serbia if these things I'm talking about, the robbery I'm talking about, didn't happen and didn't happen, but were right and really happening. The poll committee is an ideal opportunity for us to do so in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, to show clearly how we're dealing with Krusik, who we're dealing with, that there's no more hiding information, that the company has to answer the demands and questions of the MPs. It's our job, among other things. Our job here isn't just to sit here and vote on the bells and have a fight with each other, but also to function as control of the executive government. “Cruik” is part of that surveillance. The dedicated industry is a very important industry for Serbia and putting the dedicated industry in a position like this where someone can get money out of it, is not something in Serbia's interest, it's a crime. We could also face the D.A.'s office and the police by not doing our job. I know, since I worked for the police and the prosecution and worked on some of the biggest corruption cases in Serbia, on 24 controversial privatisations, as I did with Verica Barac. I also know that there are a lot of honest people in the police and the D.A.'s office who could do this job. However, the government, a partyocrat in power above all, through the influence of the ministries does not allow them to do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73145	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted for it. MP Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances regarding privatisation, the choice of a strategic investor and the sale of the stake of RBB Bor, the Chinese company Zijdin for $350m, which damaged citizens of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia by at least $10 billion, the profit from future exploitation of the ore, as well as the adverse consequences of this sale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73146	Thank you. I already mentioned RTB Bor was sold to the Chinese, and it was sold because, about 300m euros, slightly less than where all the copper reserves that Serbia has, which have exploited in the last 100 to 120 years, and probably much, much earlier in history, just not on that scale, that we sold all the copper reserves to a foreign company. This is an important example, since Serbian citizens should finally understand that all world forces are colonial forces, that each colonises somewhere and that the subject of colonization is resources. For example, the Chinese are interested in copper in Serbia, Germany is interested in cheap labour, Russia is interested in gas and oil. There are no friends among the great forces, we have interests. In this case, the interests of the Republic of Serbia are not protected by anyone. The polling committee is needed to determine why the state of Serbia signed an extremely harmful contract, another robbery privatisation and gave practically copper reserves to a foreign company that is part of the Chinese state. I don't, of course, have anything against the Chinese, they're also our allies, as far as KIM's concerned, but they're doing it out of their own interest and I guess they're not trading to get copper. Well, the question is why is the state of Serbia doing things like this? The Bor copper reserves are estimated at over $100 billion, not current findings, or current windows where copper is exploited, it's a new one and no one's taken care of it when RTB Bor was sold. The state of Serbia practically got absolutely nothing from it, because that money we got for RTB Bor went to the debt settlement, which made management with Spaskovski. So this is one big robbery privatisation where the state of Serbia gives important resources and practically falls into a colonial position towards all these world powers, where it no longer controls anything and it seems that our government thus buys the support of all these forces for its stay in power. What is also alarming is the way the Chinese side operates in Bor, is extremely harmful to the environment. It's a huge amount of air poisoning, it's continued. Nothing's been promoted, only worse. The people of Bora know that. Also, they intend to exploit these new findings so they don't harm the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73147	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. MP Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding developments in Montenegro, following the adoption of a constitutional law on freedom and religion.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73148	Thank you. There is a kidnapping of SPC assets in Montenegro. So it looks like if a worm could keep her property, she'd have to find the birth certificate of St. Save. That's what it looks like. The rights of the Serb people in Montenegro are under threat. My grandfather was born in Montenegro, my father was born in Kosovo, so I can talk about this directly and concern me directly, that is, with blood tied to it. The state of Serbia is silent about this. I don't think we should keep our mouths shut. I think we should open up a congregation debate. We proposed a draft resolution on the developments in Montenegro, so I'll read it here. Given the fact that the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Foundation of Freedom, freedom of religion, the right to property, the right to privacy and to prohibit discrimination against all citizens of the Republic of Montenegro is guaranteed. Given that these guarantees also apply to the SPC, given the fact that the practice of the European Court of Human Rights makes certain borders and the conditions of State interference in the exercise of these rights, given that in the Republic of Montenegro a significant number of citizens consider themselves members of the Serbian people, which in itself creates the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to play an active role in ensuring the minimum standards of basic human rights, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings the next resolution on the condemnation of human rights of members of the Serb peoples and SPC in Montenegro. One -- a violation of the human rights of members of the Serb people and the SPC by the Republic of Montenegro is condemned and calls on the authorities of the Republic of Montenegro to respect the commitments they have made by ratification of the European Convention. The president of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are called on, in accordance with their constitutional powers, to initiate appropriate procedures to protect not only the rights of the Serb people and the SPC, but also to protect the elementary human and property rights of all citizens of Montenegro, regardless of religious and national membership, as well as the very rule of law that separates organised democratic societies from the will of the assembly's majority. Full support is given to the SPC and members of the Serb people in a legitimate fight to protect their fundamental human rights. We believe this is a minimum Serbia can do to support the Serbian people and SPC in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73149	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. MP Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify facts and circumstances regarding the current situation with migrants.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73150	I'll say this part slowly, it's very important that all citizens understand what's going on. I wish I was wrong. I wish this wasn't true what I'm about to say, because I better not be right, but that what I'm about to say is true. Serbia disappears before our eyes. Man by man, family by family, while we're gone in these rooms. Annual Serbia is leaving nearly 50,000 citizens, our children, because their life in Serbia is no longer tolerable. The whole Balkans are disappearing. All Balkan countries are in the same process. So, what is the government doing to protect Serbia? What's demographic politics? Unfortunately, we have a speech by the president of the SNS in front of the "Tanjuga" cameras, where he clearly says that the number of immigrants who will settle in Serbia by 2028 will slowly rise and that in 2028, it will equalise with the number of our children fleeing the country. That's 50 grand a year. And that from 2030 onwards, the number of immigrants who will settle in Serbia will be greater than the number of our children fleeing the country. This means that this is the government's plan to replace our country-run children, to move into Serbia over a million migrants over the next 20 years. So, a million of our children should leave the country during that period, mostly going to Germany, millions of migrants to settle and, contrary to their will, and a million more people, we almost have to lose through negative birth, or more of us dying than we're born. This is Serbia's disappearance. Why is the government doing this? This is also a German policy, since our labour force is pulling Germany into itself, a qualified workforce that works with them below the price, and here they intend to settle migrants for their cheap labour factories. We have a Deputy Prime Minister who seems to be Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who is already speaking publicly about how we should prepare for our children to marry migrants here at home. Let me tell you one thing about migrants. Migrants are victims, they're not guilty. The large corporations of the world bomb their countries, create an artificial migrant crisis and bring them to Europe, aim to undo the sovereign countries of Europe. The state of Serbia unfortunately participates in the process, we do not understand why and therefore this polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73151	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: in – five. Ambassador Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to review the integrity of the Brussels negotiations, as well as the circumstances in which these negotiations are being conducted, and concerning a solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73152	Thank you. We seem to be talking everywhere about Kosovo and Metohija, only not in the Republika Srpska Assembly. The Brussels Agreement signed this power after 2012, signed by Ivica Dacic along with Aleksandra Vukic, who supported it. The Brussels agreement obliges the Serbian state to withdraw all its institutions from Kosovo and Metohija. At the same time, the Pristina government, which would like to have an independent republic, and it cannot and cannot get it without the state of Serbia's recognition, has committed to building a community of Serb municipalities, where there will be not only municipalities in the north, but also municipalities in the rest of Kosovo and Metohija, where Serb enclaves, where there are, in fact, most citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, who are loyal to the Republic of Serbia, live in teams of enclaves. The state of Serbia has fulfilled all its obligations under the Agreement. She withdrew from Kosovo and Metohija, withdrew her institutions, gave them an invitation number, resolved many issues, so she unilaterally did a lot of things, until Pristina did one thing. A community of Serb municipalities is not built, nor is it known when they will. Even fees for Serbian goods have been introduced and it is in fact a German plan in Kosovo and Metohija, where Germany is trying to mate America and that in fact, somehow separates Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. Now we see a conflict between American and German politics lately. Since the Pristina side has not met a single point of the agreement, here it has been for more than eight years, the state of Serbia should withdraw from the Brussels Agreement, declare it invalid because of the failure to meet Pristina, or the agreement is nothing, because Pristina does not meet a single point in the agreement. It doesn't matter whether you supported him or didn't support him at the time he was signed, what was expected, what wasn't expected then, not to get into it, what matters to us is why we're still in that agreement. The proposal by the parliamentary group, or DJB MPs, is that Serbia declares the agreement nothing, that it withdraws from it and that it continues its policy as if it did not have the agreement. Without Serbia's consent, Pristina cannot build a state. So it's up to us to give something and not give it, we have no reason to give anything. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, so it will remain. This should be the first step in saying again that it is part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73153	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to review the current foreign-political orientation of the Republic of Serbia towards Germany in light of the current conflicts of US and Germany's policy on the solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73154	Thank you. This is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand. We're going through tectonic geopolitical changes. So the whole concept of the West changes, the West divides again. I'll remind the citizens, we've had two world wars where the West actually fought against the West, where we were on one side. This is happening again and practically this geopolitical change is America and the UK is separating from Germany and I think France is also going to part with Germany in a shorter period. The European Union is dominated by Germany. Germany edits everything in the Balkans. No country within the EU deals with the Balkans except Germany. They control the media, control the setting of elites in all Balkan countries, both in government and in opposition, turning the Balkans into their colony of cheap labour. Serbia has relied several times in its history on German politics and Austria's policy before it, and we have paid a great price for it. Today, the Republic of Serbia is again following German politics in Europe. Germany practically edits everything, printing textbooks, extracts children and employs them, opens factories for cheap labour, controls the media and political elite. We should wake up. These tectonic geopolitical changes lead to major changes on the European continent. The European Union is not Europe. Serbia is a proud part of Europe, Russia is also part of Europe. The European Union is a small bureaucratic plant that sits in three cities, in Brussels, Strasbourg and Frankfurt, and tries to destroy the sovereign countries of Europe by means of banking globalism that controls. Serbia should rely on sovereigns, other sovereign countries that are coming out of German domination. Britain has left the EU, and we expect Italy, and Poland, the Scandinavian countries to follow it. So we need a whole new political orientation. As far as KIM is concerned, the United States has prevented its actions and that is, President Trump has prevented a legally binding agreement on KIM. To say, Trump is not a friend of Serbia, but in our best interests, he's the best American president in 50 years. So we need to follow up on what's going on, we have a big conflict between American politics, new American politics, Clinton politics and German politics that wants to be established as a new world power.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73155	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Five MPs voted for it. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73156	Here's another proof of how the jump is going, there are other points that are logical to the continent with what I just said, but what to do. The previous government passed a Nature Protection Act, which practically enabled the construction of small hydropower plants that destroy mountain rivers in Serbia. This is what all citizens of the Old Mountains, the Bath, the Zlatibor, many mountains where nature is destroyed for little profit. The previous government passed the law, and this government started to enforce them, gave licenses, had a plan to build a huge number of small hydropower plants that all if they made virtually squeezed all our mountain rivers into pipes, destroyed nature, and that would mean about 2.5% of electricity on the Republic of Serbia's energy balance. We do all this under the cover of an EU green energy project. This isn't green energy, this is the destruction of nature. The citizens, fortunately, stood on their feet, set out to defend their rivers and managed to defend them in many locations. The job isn't done yet. We need to change the laws so it won't be possible anymore. So, this law foresees, that is, these changes we propose, that nothing can be built in protected areas of nature, and the laws passed by previous authorities and supported by these powers have allowed for the construction of, among other things, the mini power plants and other commercial facilities. No business facility belongs in a protected area of nature, we need to preserve it, we got it from our ancestors. Serbia isn't ours, we didn't make it, we got it in the amanet to keep it and hand it over to the next generation. So these amendments to the law actually suggest that where nature zones are protected, there is a ban on any construction, especially the construction of flow mini power plants. All built so far would have to be removed, and if the investor had all the permits of the Republic of Serbia, then removed from the budget cost, that is, the state's fault. If he bribed and obtained permits illegally, then he would have to remove them at his own expense and restore nature to its previous condition. I think this is very important, a large number of citizens have stood up against this. This also says that we have continuity from the former government to this government. Everything the former did, this one went on and on and on. It's time to hang up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73157	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Five MPs voted for it. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73158	Thank you. Here, you see, on the jump again, a little bit about environmental protection, a little bit about Kosovo and Metohija. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia, under the 2006 Constitution, is to pass laws on Kosovo and Metohija within six months or a year. It's a commitment that neither the previous government nor this authority has been carried out for 14 years. It was our obligation to pass such a law. E, "Enough Has Been" drafted a draft law on Kosovo and Metohija and proposed it to the Serbian Parliament to adopt it. What's the law doing? The bill marks the intersection of Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and again returns Kosovo and Metohija to the legal constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. We recognize that, under Resolution 1244, the local population has maximum self-government and that it is under UN supervision and we recognize that in law. We used a model between Denmark and the Faeroe Islands. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia probably don't know, the Faeroe Islands declared independence in 1945, just like the Pristina quasi state. In 1945. Denmark didn't get too upset, it didn't go tanks on them, it passed its law on the Faeroe Islands. They can also have a football team, they can have a flag, they can have the status they call a constitution, they can have all these features, that's not what the Danish state takes. However, the Faeroe Islands are part of Denmark, do not have a chair in the UN and, you can imagine, are not an EU member. So you have one country in the EU where most of the countries in Denmark are on the continent in the EU, and the Faeroe Islands that are part of Denmark are not. E, such a bill was passed by the DJB parliamentary group, which follows the model and does the same thing in Serbia. Now, one interesting thing was solved by the Danes, so we took over. They said that if someone took a passport from the Faeroe Islands, or the citizenship of the Faeroe Islands, he would not be persecuted by the state of Denmark. They recognise the document, but say -- the national of the Faeroe Islands loses all rights to all other citizens of Denmark. So we suggested the same thing, whoever took a passport from the Pristina quasi state to lose citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, lost access to the education system, the social protection system, the pension system, is practically a stranger. So, the law is good for loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are the only political option that has proposed a solution for Kosovo and Metohija to remain an integral part of Serbia, and we should practically develop Serbia to force others to come towards us. It's this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73159	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Three MPs voted for it, one with abstention. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73160	Thank you. Since this is a package of three laws relating to mini power plants, I'm sorry they're not together, because then I could explain it from one to the next, but the chairman skips, or they probably already did it in the congregation services, so I need a little bit about Kosovo and Metohija, and a little bit of going back to mini power plants. This is also the reason why we boycott the work of the Assembly, since there are no conditions, and that is today proven. So, the three laws that solve what the previous government did allowed, in fact, this government to install flow power plants along a large number of small mountainous beautiful rivers in the Republic of Serbia and thus completely destroy the human environment. In this case, in order to implement a project, one study of the impact of this project on the environment is needed. Wherever you have protected areas of nature these studies have to be done. The law makes, imagine, exceptions, so that the mini power plants whose installed power is less than two megawatts do not have to, or were left to the ministry to just assess and, imagine, the ministry decides to assess that these studies are never necessary. This is one of the holes through which these mini plants were made that destroyed our mountain rivers both on the Old Mountain and on the Kopalnik and on Zlatibor and elsewhere. So, the law suggests that this hole should be closed and that studies must always be done when it comes to a protected zone of nature, and this bill says not only must studies be done but nothing can be built which is an economic object, since nature in these protected zones is more important, the integrity of that nature is more important than any business activity. The main one that should be in these protected zones is tourism, is eco tourism, or ethnic tourism, and that is something that besides agriculture should be an important motive, which is an important foundation to prevent the depopulation of the village, i.e. the large emptying of the village in Serbia, which is a major problem in addition to the general demographic picture. This is a good example of this law as well as how the former government and the current government do well and how they don't change anything when they move from one to the other. The previous government had – the EU has no alternative to politics, this government has no alternative policy, the previous government has worked the Brussels Agreement, this for the sake of the Brussels Agreement, the previous one has listened to Germany, this one listens to Germany, the previous one has passed laws on mini power plants, this one has complemented them and continued to destroy rivers. This is a chance to stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73161	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73162	Thank you. This is now the third of the three laws concerning the mini power plant. So the first one is, we said it couldn't be built in protected areas of nature at all. The second is that there must be environmental impact studies when building anything, for example, even a tourist facility. This third, interesting thing was, since those mountainous rivers are stuck in a pipe, citizens can see it, unfortunately, only on social networks because all the media are closed and they won't release this information, so you can't even get to know them. That looks terrible. So, those beautiful rivers shoved into a pipe, that looks terrible. They also had a problem when they were doing it, because they couldn't just use the riverbed, but they had to carry those derivation pipelines over private property. So someone has a plot, and that's what the people of the Old Mountain know very well, and then they want to cross their country, private countries, conduct a derivation pipeline. Since they could not do so before this amendment to the law was made, then this assembly majority, meaning these SNS MPs, passed an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction, which they said the derivation pipeline was considered infrastructure. So, this private derivation pipeline for the needs of private small hydropower plants is considered a state-owned infrastructure, so that private owners must let these builders drag the derivation pipeline through their parcels. This is just amazing, the law as it is, it's not even stopped. But the problem is when we address the Constitutional Court, they don't take this into consideration at all. So, these three laws we've proposed can change everything around the mini power plants, never to build mini power plants again, so our rivers don't push into pipelines and protect nature. We did not create the state of Serbia; it was given to us in an amannet, and our fathers, who kept it, kept it, and it is up to us to do the same. This is a sin against the state, against the people and against nature, and it needs to be prevented. The ruling majority is deaf to this. Apparently, both previous and this government has implemented an identical policy, from robbery privatisations, through destruction of nature and small hydropower plants, where practically the same policy has continuity, here, for 30 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73163	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73164	These changes to the Media Act now, we have opportunities in the public, citizens have the opportunity to see this reckoning between N1, or United Media and Telecom, where N1 would somehow force itself into the Telecom network and still make money from it, and Telecom does not allow it, and on the other hand SBB is a network that is within N1 and which is part of the same ownership package with N1, United Media does not allow any new television to be displayed on N1. Now, when we look at it, the channels that are being released through Telecom are doing propaganda, practically supporting all government policies, from immigration policy, to Kosovo and Metohija sales policy, foreign investors, subsidies that are being given, the eviction of our people, we have programmes of the National Employment Service, which employs our people in Germany. It's just amazing. That German companies are printing textbooks for our children, means to follow German politics in the Balkans, that's what the government does. This is supported practically by all the media broadcast via Telecom, but the same policy is propagating the N1. So, they have a problem with Wolfie, but not with the policies Wolfie conducts. And they have politics -- the EU has no alternative, and both are in fact making it impossible for any new channel to appear and that citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see it. You have a TV called "Free TV", which she asked for, got permission from REM, so a state-owned institution that gives broadcasting permits, and can't get any cable operator to let them broadcast, and that's free of charge, doesn't even ask for money for it. In this way, media pluralism is being destroyed and, in fact, monopolies and Telecom and SBB are fully controlling the media image and do not allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be informed. Then additionally, you probably don't know this, the N1 is being broadcast from abroad, not from Serbia, or the programme is being created in Serbia, but it's being exported, and then it's being re-exported, or re-emissioned in Serbia. Imagine, the "Pinka" channels are also produced in Serbia, broadcast mainly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then return from Sarajevo, or re-emission in Serbia. This avoids paying taxes, thus avoiding obligations to the state of Serbia, not even having REM licenses. Now, these legal changes talk about wanting order in the media space, that media space works in the interests of Serbian citizens, not this duopolis, or the SBB monopoly and United Media, and it tells all cable operators that they have to show all channels.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73165	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73166	All gun owners in Serbia know what I'm going to talk about right now. Amendments to the Arms Act have been made to introduce order, to introduce medical assurance for all those who possess weapons. Having guns and carrying guns with them are two different things, citizens don't know that. The possession is one thing, and the right to carry a weapon is another. Now I'm talking about property rights, or citizens' rights to own weapons. A large number of weapons are owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, many are retired police officers and soldiers. The state has made a change to the law saying that citizens can own weapons for personal security only if, and this is Article 11th point 8, the state of Serbia, or the MUP, determines that they have personal security at stake. So this is unconstitutional in itself. Article 50 speaks of re-registration, since the law stipulated that the old paper was replaced with a plastic card that could be registered with multiple pieces of weapons, and then against the law applied this Article 11 to the re-registering of weapons, they took possessions of large money, meaning not only the medical assurance needed, and what a good solution, but also the other fees they charged, and then they used it to confiscate weapons, or refused to orderly re-register the weapons, they refused to give permission to claim that they thought their safety was not compromised. This led to a large number of weapons seized. Now comes the most interesting thing. Since the citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot sell their weapons, there is no arms market in Serbia, nor can they sell it abroad, then they had to hand it over to the state and, imagine, on the sites where guns are sold, in America, for example, and elsewhere we found these pieces of weapons that, somehow, from the Ministry through some company ended up on those websites. So it's obviously a major corruption where the state took away weapons, and then let someone in private sell them abroad. This law, which we have proposed, abolishes the ministry's discretionary right to deny owners, legitimate gun owners who have done so legitimately and legally, to deny them re-registration and delete point 8) and the possibility that the MUP will say - we are assessing that you are not at risk of security, constitutional law of the Serbian citizens and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73167	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues which have determined that by the appearance of the death of the People's MP, Vera Paunovic, there has been a case set out in Article 88(1) of the Law on the selection of MPs, and I propose that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88(3) and 4 of the same law determine the termination of the mandate of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (8) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the election of MPs of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Veri Paunovic, on the day of his death. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73168	Thank you. It is difficult to say much after this large amount of proposal, but I think that from this sea, Radulovic was certainly at least some proposal that could have been adopted, if nothing else, at least these environmental laws, but, of course, it is a matter of will and assessment of the ruling majority. So, at least something, maybe then, wouldn't be so many suggestions coming up. I have defined myself for all the couple I have already proposed here, and I stress that the proposal of the Survey Committee on the Determination of Death Facts, or Oliver Ivanovic's murder, has not been officially submitted, because I said I would not officially submit, but I think that the informality of the polling committee on this matter remains a stain, one serious stain on this, pores of the rest, at the term of this assembly's call. However, my proposal concerns the appearance of a radical measure but which is very motivated by everything that has happened in the last months or the last year, or better to say what has surfaced in the public over the last year about events related to our dedicated industry, abuses, nepotism, robbery and perhaps conscious, tenorous collapse, destruction of the dedicated industry, which, of course, takes a long time, and I don't think it has started just for the mandate of this government, but it has now culminated and I would say that it is being sold to some foreign or domestic private owners sooner or more cheaply. That is why my proposal is to abolish, i.e. to eliminate, privatise and private intermediation when it comes to trade in the products of the dedicated industry. We have a state trader and a middleman, that's the SDPR. Each of these factories has its own commercial, has its own sales service, and I don't think there was any reason to introduce some intermediaries who have been told there for years, I say, have staged behind the mandate of the previous government, plus some have now jumped to the first plan and have been established because they are close to the current government, directly or indirectly, some even family ties to the current government. In order not to keep it that way, so that some thirds who come or return to one of the previous ones, then rediscover their traders and their intermediaries, and then those who are in charge now, a little bit, went to another plan, as some who have worked with the previous set, have jumped out a new one, in order to put an end to it, I suggest, to throw out, a radical measure, but only a seemingly radical measure of disposing of private intermediations when it comes to arms trafficking. I think that would be a beneficial measure, seemingly radical only, and essentially would root out this source of corruption, obviously a serious source of corruption in the dedicated industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73169	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73170	Thank you, President. This bill has been submitted as an illustration, but I think it is important, but as an illustration of one of the bad practices that this House's assembly has practiced, here for years, as well as the previous, where some things, some measures, some legal solutions are simply mechanically taken over from so-called. European legislative practices. In order to be greater Catholics than the Pope, in a desire to kind of point out, whether government in general, whether individual resistors and individual ministers, then go even further, and actually propose solutions that do not exist or are not universal and are not accepted at all at EU level, let alone around the world. So came the proposal, which I was of course, and when submitted, when the ruling majority voted together with one part and the opposition of the then present, that every citizen of this country was believed to have given the default consent to organ transplants after his death. I then pointed out, I admit, a few more colleagues, that this is a bad measure, that it will cause doubts, that it will cause and not contribute to the goal that we share, to be as many donors as possible, but to be as many voluntary donors as possible, which can be achieved by campaigns, motivation, to include public figures, popular personalities, athletes, actors, artists, popular leaders or politicians, if they will. So instead, it is mandatory and I say, the default consent to the donorship, which has only resulted in the fear of the citizens. The other day, we adopted and discussed the Baby Trade Act, or missing babies, and we saw that it was happening that we couldn't believe. I think there will be suspicion in the public that there will be some kind of black organ market, as unfortunately there has been a black market for babies, decades ago. I think it's much better, because this is an unconstitutional solution, which doesn't contribute to the goal that should be common to us and that human, we should withdraw, or adopt my proposal and withdraw this now existing solution that all citizens are potentially mandatory organ donors after their death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73171	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. The proposal hasn't been adopted. National MP Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and products from GMOs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73172	Thank you, President. At a meeting Thursday when the government responded to MPs, the Prime Minister said she was sorry we no longer talked and explained why we needed a new GMO law. I am also sorry that the Prime Minister did not sign a positive opinion on the GMO Declaration because it did not respect the views of about 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities of cities in the Republic of Serbia. Which means that it is not a government that respects the views of local self-government, but respects the views of multinational corporations and interests that are not Serbia's interests. I am also sorry that we no longer talked about amending and supplementing the GMO Act, because here, you passed the law, amendments and additions to Article 5. The law on food safety and defined genetically modified food without any indication that for humans and genetically modified animal food, you favoured animals compared to humans. You've also defined that genetically modified food and food is labelless for who and of what, and you've added animal feed from genetically modified organisms. I hope that Serbian citizens will not support those who advocate genetically modified organisms because of themselves, because of their children, because of their grandchildren and because of their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73173	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, one – against. I find the proposal not accepted. And the latest proposal by MP Risticevic, to supplement the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73174	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, across the fake cross-border channels, Dragan Gilas will send us various modified political organisms. We just heard about a declaration, a flying tomato, a pickle that bites, etc. For our viewers, I must repeat the law which is a legally binding document prohibiting the cultivation and transport of genetically modified organisms in Serbia's territory. The declaration is not a binding document. We have a law that forbids it. That's why I'm wondering if there's any F departments missing a patient or if they've been released for an extended weekend? Number two. The same cross-border channels sent us a guy from the Radulović Del Bo Group, a company that fell apart and now we have three returnees and gossipers. What's all this Gilas' pre-canal channel is supporting him, what did he say? He said he was stealing choices. Here is his statement from September 19th – Sasa Radulovic or Kradulovic, in the DJB presidential elections, had all the polling stations covered. There was no theft at the polling stations. It won't be in Belgrade either. Here's his statement. Today, it claims a completely differently modified political organism. Next, he was talking about construction land from the PKK. The 1,500-ha building land belonging to the PKK continues to belong to the PKK, does not belong to Al Dahra, as it belongs to another 5,000 ha of land. So that's the social capital that came from the work of the PKK and it's not alienated. It's another lie of a modified political organism being chased by the U.S. for tax evasion. The bankruptcy manager, who is bankrupt, pushes anything these privatisations haven't done, chases him for a million euros in taxes in America. It's worse than Al Capone. I, I think Al Capone, is a tiny fish of the bankruptcy director Radulovic, so he can recalibrate him, rip him off with a racket, and he'll probably be in bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this group of people is an NGO. They never registered a political party. Sasa Radulovic and Branka Stamenkovic received a million and a half dinars although they did not do their job. Today he came to confuse the citizens of the Republic of Serbia before the elections, and did not say that as an NGO, an unregistered political party in the last four years has received over threem euros, which follows political parties, rather than NGOs. He embezzled that money by paying Branko Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73175	Thank you. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the proposal for a bill to confirm the protocol on changes and additions to the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex 1 to the Agreement on Economic Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: six MPs did not vote for – 124. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 124, against – no one voted five MPs. I find that we established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, submitted by the MPs Marijan Risticevic, Djordje Komlenski and Bojan Torbica, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of Annex 1. Agreement on economic and technological co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which was submitted by the Government, and 4. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Modern Serb Party. I'm asking the Proposer's representative if you'd like to present yourself now. The break will be regular. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. You have received the bill submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I ask the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of authorised representatives, the lists of speakers. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a review of the draft law amending the Arms and Ammunition Act. Does the proposing representative, MP Marijan Risticevic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73176	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you've all had gun owners' interventions these days, from hunters to other owners who haven't registered, or changed the gun list. The deadline expires on 5 March 2020. Last year, he also said on March 5th, 2019, but we gave the additional deadline after 3 years we gave an additional period of one year, that gun owners were reregistering weapons and receiving a new document, i.e. a biometrically armed list. Despite an extension of a year, little because of the complicated procedure, I have little to admit because of the laziness of our citizens, little perhaps because of the law that has not defined that area in the best way, mostly from 400 to 500 000 of our citizens, the owner of weapons, within the deadline that stands out on March 5th, has not initiated a procedure for replacing the armed list, or some have not passed the training, and some have not delivered the doctor's assurance, the procedure is mostly a little more complicated. Some may not have the money, and I think our citizens, no matter what I admit, are lazy among us, deserve to extend that deadline by two years. In that sense, the three of us have proposed this law and we don't think it's some question about which something should be guessed or prosecuted through the dialogue of MPs and MPs, we think it's a purely technical issue. We believe that the law is not perfect, but in the hope that for two years, through some public debate, a new law can possibly be passed, or an old one, because many gun owners, who have other grudges than the extension of the deadline, appear. So, the purely technical thing to give our citizens the opportunity to reregister that weapon, i.e. to get new biometric weapons sheets, and I think it's a two-year deadline, and the MUP would have to advertise every three months, and the public media service to advertise and warn our citizens, that this two-year deadline is not some limit that is infinite and that it should not wait for the last month as it has been the case so far, that some request is being renewed again. I think the government deserves praise for putting this on the agenda, that the MPs who voted to put themselves on the agenda by emergency procedure deserve praise, and I believe that for this law we will all vote, because it only offers the opportunity for citizens, regardless of political beliefs, regardless of the nation, religion, etc., offers a chance that what they did in the previous three or four years, they do in some period until 2022. I am therefore grateful to all MPs, opposition and ruling, who have taken an interest in this proposal and who have, in a certain way, not having signed the proposal, supported this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73177	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go. Excuse me, first of all, should I ask if the committees in charge want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73178	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law itself has nothing to do with this issue. So we have a serious problem that has arisen because of the misplanned activities resulting from the adoption of some earlier regulations. It is not the first time that happens in Serbia to pass the law and that we are not able to implement it afterwards, because we have overlooked the capacity of the institutions, because people are not sufficiently informed and, all in all, that the law which is essentially quite fine, which is that we have adequate documents regarding every weapon, cannot be implemented in the right way, bringing people who need, which are subject to the interest of this law, to a rather difficult position, exerts the capacity of the institutions. The extension of the deadline is not disputed. But what needs to be taught is to improve the planning of lawmaking. Sometimes it's better to be conservative, sometimes it's better to be a skeptic, sometimes it's better to underestimate the power of state authorities, the interest of citizens and all other things, so leave more time and then not come into a situation that amendments of the law in this case, some things change later. It's okay to change that, it's okay to give two more years, and it's our recommendation, lesson, whatever you want, that in the future, the better we plan deadlines regarding law enforcement, action plans and things like that. So the law itself is not controversial and we'll probably all agree. Since this is a debate in principle, I'm not going to take all the time, because there's simply nothing special about breaking a spear. I would point out some things that are important to the debate in principle, which is that we are a country that is highly armed, and we all know that. Not only Serbia, many Balkan countries have a large amount of weapons per capita, and much of that weapon has not been reported. What's the question - how do we encourage people to report weapons and have one precise weapons record in Serbia? Is it perhaps the right way to impose high taxes on holding weapons, or is it better to stimulate people to report weapons, within a period that is reasonable, and at the same time that there is zero tolerance on undeclared weapons? I think that would be a very good trip. Also, we need to decide how we observe weapons in a society. From our point of view, we consider weapons to be a security guarantee, especially in Serbia's areas where people simply are unable to defend their property, their family, their property, because they are located in remote parts of the country, from potential attackers. So the question is do we view weapons as something that is a threat to security or something that is a guarantee of individual safety? Of course, under all assumptions that are not disputed, a weapon and an armed paper cannot be issued to someone with mental problems or a history of criminal activities. That's not at all controversial. Another thing is the treatment that now exists, and he's quite unequal and I think it's due to some older understandings that bind their roots to 1945, 1946, etc., when actually citizens as such didn't exist, and individuality and private property was something that was undesirable. With this situation, we have something that is a sad fact, which is that those who have undeclared weapons are in advantage of those who don't have one at all, and many don't have one because it's quite taxed. Also, another of the things I would point out is self-defense treatment in Serbian criminal law, and especially in processes concerning the use of the right to self-defense, where we have people who, in the necessary self-defense, harm attackers or take their lives, are simply victims of persecution that lasts for years and years, although almost nothing is disputed. So, instead of being sued, one needs to prove that someone has exceeded the necessary self-defense, with us the process is upside down, so the true heroes of our society, the protectors of our family, the protectors of their property, the protectors of our order, are being persecuted for four or five years. I'm not going to mention specific cases because, thank God, some people, after five years, instead of getting a medal, instead of getting from the state psychological aid, were being able to recover from a terrible shock, were being persecuted by the state for five years. So, if we're going to discuss weapons already, it would be very good to reconsider the treatment of self-defense in Serbia and why we often have de facto socially unwanted behavior to defend one's possession with a weapon from someone who uninvited and armed enters the same. Finally, one more thing. We think the question is very important for the hunt. Hunting tourism is an important branch in Serbia. Also, as time passes, Serbia's hunters will play a significant role, both in terms of protecting agriculture and property and everything else from invasive species such as jackals, for example, only hunters can solve the problem and new problems that will arise in the future. They are not problems, but Serbia will also go through a demographic transition that will lead to areas that are de facto of hunting surfaces uninhabited in Serbia increasing, which necessarily leads to an increase in the amount of game that will have to be shot. On the other hand, laws should recognise the importance of hunters in Serbia and the importance of their role in society, as well as the potential of hunting tourism. We're not wasting any more time. Simply, the law is quite clear and we have really nothing against two new years, that the law is fully and properly implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73179	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73180	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say in front of the Serbian Radical Party that we absolutely support this law, that this extension of two years is necessary because a large number of citizens, that is, most of the citizens did not comply with this obligation, which was foreseen by the current law until 5 March of this year. We can't just say that our citizens who own weapons are irresponsible, and because of this they did not carry out their obligation, the previous speaker spoke about the capacity of the organisation itself, since somewhere around a million citizens have weapons under permission and that in one period that was given by law it was not possible to do just because the law provided for and some additional obligations that people who already had and already had weapons in their possession. In fact, it's about having to do a health check for the first time. But something else has also happened in this period. Citizens who had fulfilled this obligation by the law by the new year paid twice as much, i.e. they had expenditure in double the amount that the citizens of the new year had, and so on. I don't know which regulations it's regulated, but it's still about significant means. If you have in mind that a citizen pays taxes for weapons, that he was supposed to go for a health check, that the release of a new armed list takes about 1,500 dinars, and then has to pay certain taxes, in practice it wasn't done as it says in Article 50, but it was treated as if it were the first time they appeared and asked for the first time to issue an armed list, so they practically had all these costs. That's why it was unclear for the citizens themselves, and that's why we've been waiting until these last months when there's a lot of traffic in all the secretariats on this issue. The period given, of two years, is absolutely enough for all of this to be settled. However, I believe that some additions to this law should be carried out during this period in order to make this law more acceptable. With this law, the government tried, not with this change, but simply with the Law on Arms and Ammunition, to be liberal, to look like these European laws, but in some things it exaggerated. If in Europe an armed paper lasts 10 years and a medical examination takes 10 years, and we are scheduled for a medical examination every five years, and then criminal provisions provide that if a citizen does not re-provide the Trust in Health Skills over five years, the penalty may be between 10,000 and 150,000 dinars, and the citizen simply forgets it. Now, that is, let's say, one thing that needs to be corrected in law, that health assurance is as valid as the armed list, and then we wouldn't be in a situation where these criminal provisions are applied. Next, the law simply placed citizens, i.e. holders in a number of categories. Before this law, there was a trophy weapon in that other law, a trophy weapon that the citizen could own, but he couldn't get ammunition. However, this law considers trophy weapons to be the weapon produced by 1945. All of us who had guns, who we used to wear and buy under official duty, are emotionally bound to that weapon and it's very ugly what the law predicts, disabling weapons. A large number of the people I've spoken to in my possession have several weapons. Because at the time it was necessary to support the flag of arms factory, elders had to borrow for their money to buy weapons that were both personal and official, which means tens and tens of thousands of people, and then, over a few years, a second, and then a third weapon was purchased. Now for those two or three weapons they own, they have to pay taxes. A number of people give up a weapon that's never been fired by a single bullet that's still been preserved and handed it over to the M.O.P. Is that by the Constitution? Although it is a weapon, it is nevertheless private property of a person and, therefore, they are simply forced by certain legal provisions to pay or to give up that weapon. If we're already following Europe, in Germany, in France we need an examination of psychologists, so we're doing this health checkup, but if you get one license in Germany, you can go to the store and buy weapons on the basis of it. You no longer have any obligation to ask for a permit to buy weapons again, because the seller will contact whoever needs to know that you bought the weapon and whether you have 10 weapons or 20, that no longer interests anyone, because it is your risk if you use the weapon. You will not be taken away from just the weapon you have abused or broken the law, but from all the weapons you possess. Now, we want to be liberal here, but we've introduced that if you want to buy another copy of the weapon, you're going back to the beginning. When it comes to hunting weapons and sports weapons, you've never had to be a member of a hunting club before. There are simply people who inherited or bought weapons, but they would never shoot any animals. That's more like what they'd say, safari hunters. But by this law they simply force themselves to be members of a hunting society, and that means that they have to pay between 9,000 and 15,000, how much it costs to pass a hunting exam, in fact, the membership fee of the association and about 4,000 to pass a hunting exam. I think it's still a violation of freedom and the rights of citizens, because if he's got a condition that he can own a weapon, why would he have to be a member of a hunting society? Also, when it comes to sports weapons, it says it must be a member of a sports association, which also requires certain costs, but there are competitions, which people do not know, where it is said – in the standard category, which means a sports competition with weapons that is standardly defined, military etc. When it comes to trophy weapons, I think we should return to the solutions that were in the previous law, because there are about 63,500 of these weapons in Serbia. It's quite enough that it was then, that no ammunition can be bought for that weapon, so it was thought not to be used for sport or for self-defense. What is provided for in the law, which is also a cost for citizens – the disenfranchisement of weapons cannot be carried out by the citizen himself, must be carried out in some organisation that is attested to, and there are minimum costs, let's say, 100 euros. When you see all the costs incurred by the legal owners, then you can simply conclude that this law does not stimulate what it says, that those who have illegal weapons, report it and try to get permission, because although there is no discretion in our Constitution, because discretionary rights puts the law out of force, but in obtaining the permits there is a lot of what is under discretion, when simply you can't get a license, and there's no explanation for it if you can't get a license if you meet all of these conditions provided for in Article 11. Secondly, when we talk about our citizens, somehow this law itself is going to disarm citizens. It doesn't stand anywhere in the law, but often you see it and in the paper it says Serbia's most armed in the Balkans, well, there are over a million weapons under permission. However, if you have in mind the data that we have just received from the MUP Committee that Serbia is a country not only in Europe, but in the world, at the very bottom of the scale by the abuses of legal weapons, even precedes most European countries. So our citizens, who have legal weapons, don't abuse that weapon. You, if you take New Zealand, where weapons are completely banned, they mean they have a multiple number of weapons-produced crimes than Serbian citizens do. If you say that, let's say, we have about 4.3, actually 3.9 deaths per 100,000 citizens, 92% of which were done with illegal weapons, and only 8% with legal weapons. That is why we are on a scale among the best countries in Europe and the world. Then why should our citizens, by the measures provided for by the law, and then by those other measures relating to the tax, simply not privileged, but punished. It is known that illegal weapons are owned by criminals, whatever measures you take, whatever laws you bring, they will always have weapons, no matter how much it costs. Citizens still have weapons and that weapon, after all, serves somehow for that fundamental right, to protect their own life, to protect their family, and that is some original right that citizens have passed on to some organizations. In our case, it's the police. So, with us, the police and the military, not to say, are in some other order of security, because for their own safety and for the safety of their family there's this citizen in the first place. That is why in Europe, for example, there were about 30 laws in the European Parliament aimed at reducing the number of weapons in the EU. None of these laws went through the envisaged procedure, which was voted upon, as Interpol chief was also known, he once said there was no better protection than armed civilians from crime and terrorism. And if we have, so citizens, means civilians, who in their possession have legal weapons, here, I also brought out the fact that they don't abuse those weapons, then it would be necessary to carry out certain corrections to this law, to even think about abolishing that tax. As long as I don't have gentlemen from the ruling to transfer that radicals are responsible for the introduction of the arms tax. But if you see all the obligations that a person has for the first time is looking for a weapon, in conclusion with that locker, the cash register, and everything he has to provide, then it's so big that they're overrun in double, or triple separation, let's say, what citizen has to do to pay taxes for his apartment or house. You know what conditions most of our citizens live in, who end up fighting for the naked survival of their families and their families. So there are people who have nothing to do with this annual tax pay or some other obligations, but there are also citizens who can hardly calculate it into their budget. So that's also one of the reasons why this issue isn't regulated in time, which is why we have to pass this two-year extension law so that all citizens can solve it. But the very fact that those citizens who solved, did and were disciplined before New Year's Eve, it now turns out by law that they were punished because of their urgency, because these taxes were reduced by 50% after the New Year's Eve. We'll support this law anyway. We believe that by voting this law, the Assembly is making it easier for citizens to carry out this legal obligation in the next two years, and the Government is considering that this law, in any case, is correcting in certain parts and that it is considering making it easier for citizens by, say, removing that arms tax. It would be like some kind of reward to citizens who are, meaning the predecessors in Europe because they adhere to the law and what they almost never abuse the weapons they legally own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73181	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes. [[- It's a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to continue our work. The word is by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73183	I thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group will support the bill of our distinguished colleagues, given that this law finally regulates a issue that could have even more serious consequences if this law was not now passed and that it would not in practice produce what a huge number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect. In particular, it's about gun owners. They are somewhere around 650,000 in Serbia that own about 950,000 pieces of pipe, as long as possible, as short as possible. So, in the interest not only of them, but also of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a law which, in a practical sense, needs to produce a full effect, and this is not possible now, precisely by the bill proposed by our respected colleagues and by our support, which in any case is not controversial, can produce this very consequence, which is that in practical terms of words we allow those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who own weapons to comply with their documentation with the provisions of this law. That's why I'm going to start with the termology, which I don't think is appropriate in the law, not the bill we're discussing, but the law on which the intervention is normally made by our distinguished colleagues who have proposed amendments and additions to this law. It is a terminology that, in some future period, in some other law interventions, either by making amendments and supplementing the existing law or by completely new law, would be far better than it is. In particular, it's a controversial re-registration term. That term is not appropriate anyway. Why? Because this law includes citizens, or owners of weapons that have already registered their weapons. If they were registered and registered neatly as owners of the relevant Ministry of the Ministry of Public Records and Public Records, then the question is logically raised why should those weapons which are neat, legitimately and legally registered have to be reregistered, provided that the tax is paid, executed or all obligations are met? All these obligations were on the burden of gun owners. Then why the new registration and why the new imposition and why the new burden of costs to gun owners? For this reason, in a specific case, a second term should be used, and that term is only possible to be used as a proper - replacement of documentation of weapons, or armed sheets, or better to say harmonisation of documentation when it comes to the obligation of the owner of weapons as prescribed by the law. Of course, this situation has to take care of that so-called. the financial aspect or burden of the costs that the citizens will bear under this law. In this regard, the SPS strongly supports not only the proposing here, but also the legislator who reduced the costs when it comes to the corresponding fees, I will say again not for re-registration but for harmonisation. For example, for a hunting carbine, a gun, a revolver, first the tax was 5,300 dinars, and now it was reduced to 2,800 dinars, for unwrought pipes, hunting rifles and shotguns, first it was 2,800, and now it was reduced to 1,330 dinars. In addition to these taxis, however, there are some other charges charged by citizens who are not small. In particular, it is about the beliefs of a submitted test for arms handling, and it is known that these beliefs are issued by hunting associations or hunting companies which are authorised to carry out training at the same time, i.e. education for all gun owners, particularly potential ones. These amounts are between 6,000 and 9,000 dinars, and to keep weapons in special crates or pantographs where it's legally prescribed, such as, let's call it the free privilege of gun owners costing 6,000 to 15,000 dinars. So, it's about costs that aren't small, and then, again, I'm going to go back to the term re-registration as absolutely inadequate, a special imposition on gun owners that needs to be rationalized even more, and in future legislative proposals, I'm going to seek to make weapons owners relax as much as possible when it comes to their obligations to the state in terms of what it means to comply with the law, and it's about the registration of gun owners and the weapons themselves into public records. What particularly merits attention is the indiscretion and inaccuracy of the existing law. What am I talking about? Because it is precisely because of the normisation, which cannot be accepted as legally correct and correct, it comes to the situation that the authorised officials of the MUP through appropriate discretion or authority, we can freely say volunteering, endanger or restrict the rights acquired by citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to weapons. Why do you get rights? Because of the fact that it is citizens who have acquired their weapons completely legally, and who have registered themselves as owners, they have also recorded weapons over which they are owners of the relevant services, i.e. the competent services of the MUP. However, because of certain indiscriminateness and inaccuracy in the law itself, and especially arbitrary interpretation, even where there is no illegal action, even where there is no law enforcement, even where there is no law enforcement, even where there is nothing that a citizen as the owner of a weapon takes on anyone's damage rather than taking on, weapons are taken away. There are circumstances that are not a little pleasant for both weapons owners and possibly for their followers. Because, let me remind you, this isn't just about gun owners, this is about those who got the trophy weapon, who inherited the weapon. This is also about suitable shooting sports organisations involved in sports, and they use weapons as a means of exercise. Therefore, I think it is necessary that the law as it is should be improved in quality. If this law remains, in this situation we will have much more problems than we do now, because a huge number of weapons seized, and the question of the legal basis for the confiscation of that weapon is being raised, given that there is no legal basis in a large number of cases, that this and that legal basis is being constructed, and that even the weapons are being taken away from the citizens, and in the event that the citizens are absolutely nothing, so to say, that I am not banalizing, they have done nothing wrong. The question arises -- on what basis, on the basis of what regulation, on what legal basis has the official face of the Ministry of the Interior been authorized to take away someone's weapon? It is not disputed to confiscate the weapon where it was founded, in the event of breach of public order and peace, violation of the provisions of the Law on Public Order and Peace and other imperial regulations. But where there are absolutely no violations of the law or any other attributes of imperial nature, which is why weapons are taken away and placed somewhere, in some kind of different arrangement, and the acquired rights of gun owners remain significantly deprived, not to say deeply compromised? In this way, even Article 6 is injured. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, and if this issue were to appear before the Constitutional Court, more like a lawyer, I'm sure this would be unconstitutional. I therefore urge the Proposer to advance the arms and ammunition law in this part, i.e. to specify the possibility, the right and obligation to confiscate weapons from their owners, the way of confiscation and, of course, the legal basis of the same. In this direction, future changes and additions are necessary to implement a kind of procedure, a kind of procedure for the education of authorised officials at the Ministry of Interior, which on the one hand must be and how well to get familiar with the legislation, which I say needs to be improved and, on the other hand, have to be closely specialised in order to give the law in practical application full effect. I think that all of what I have said has a foothold in the public's view, because a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are very unhappy with the treatment of the relevant services or better to say the authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior and this dissatisfaction can be seen as completely justified. That is why, once again, I appeal to the motionary, and the only one who would be here would be the Ministry of the Interior, as a resolute ministry, that in some future, and hopefully as soon as possible, probably in the future of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, access to amendments and additions to the existing law, because, except in this part, the existing law should not suffer any other criticisms. As for the reasons why the SPS parliamentary group unreservedly supports the proposal of our esteemed colleagues, I must point out the following. First, this is about a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia covered by this law. That's 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Who are those who are raising under the scope of this law? I must point out those I consider to be my deep personal conviction, which is shared by my fellow MPs from the SPS Group, the ones most affected by this law, are hunting associations, or hunters. Although, as far as the number is concerned, they do not quantitatively represent a large category in relation to the citizens who own weapons for personal safety, they are mostly guns and guns, but they are also the category of the population, therefore, the hunters who are the most poor when it comes to the application of this law, and at the same time are included in some way in this legislation. Why do I say the poorest? Well, because, to the greatest extent, they are subject to the provisions of this law without any conditions or anything that implies criticism, except for us citizens who represent them, or us MPs who represent them as citizens, but at the same time, those who make a great contribution to all, above all, humanitarian activities in the Republic of Serbia. Hunting associations are known to have stepped up to help citizens in emergency situations and not a small number. I would like to remind you that recently a situation, which was extremely difficult, has caused huge attention to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where many, many people, a huge number of people, have been mobilized, when a girl disappeared because of a disgusting misdemeanor of paedophiles, in the vicinity of Nis, Srlig, etc. That's what happened recently, where hunters were most engaged in search of a missing girl. In any event, they expect the legislative regulation to be adapted to what involves the most rational but also the most efficient norms, i.e. those provisions of the law that will practically be applied in the best possible way in the interests of citizens, including hunters, or hunting associations. Of course, there are citizens who, as I said, engage in sports shooting, there are those who possess weapons for the sole purpose of personal safety. In rural areas, it is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, both for the protection of their assets and for the protection of personal security, own weapons. It is known that many parts of the Republic of Serbia, which are mostly rural character, are burdened by the fact that many wild animals, such as jackals, wolves, bears, etc., attack domestic animals, destroy tors, herds, etc., and then it is logical that a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or our population, are supplied with weapons to protect their property, which is their legitimate right. In any case, I will repeat, it is about persons who expect us as MPs to provide them with absolute legal certainty and protection. Now, what is essential when it comes to the bill of law that we are having, which has been filed by our distinguished colleagues, I must point out the support of two, in my opinion, incontrovertible and unquestionable reasons. The first is a very short deadline for harmonising the evidence of ownership, i.e. armed lists with the provisions of the law. Given the huge number of gun owners, as I have mentioned and very short deadlines, it is obvious that it is not well estimated what time-limit it is needed for all of what we are now doing, norming and passing the law, applied, or in order to harmonise the documentation that gun owners possess, of course, comply with the law. The deadline should therefore be extended. My personal opinion is that the extension of the two-year extension is good, but on the other hand, we must not afford to allow something that should not be allowed, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are deafening their obligations. In particular, I believe that many have had the opportunity to perform coordination, and they have not. For such, it might be good for the amendment and this bill to improve by making an appropriate solution by the MUP to give a specific individual a warrant to, within the prescribed time limit, take, for example, three or six months, to carry out whatever it takes to comply, not re-registration, but harmonisation. I'm avoiding this re-registration term because it seems extremely inadequate. In those six months, on a warrant that gets a solution, every citizen, every one of us who has a gun would be obliged to act on that warrant under the threat of proper sanctioning. Then, in a practical sense, words would lead to two consequences that are very important, which is, firstly, the legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and secondly, which would effectively eliminate any security risks or at least most of the security risks, because a huge number or a huge percentage of those weapons that are not yet being introduced into all registers, or where all of this is not harmonised properly, or in accordance with the law, would now be carried out. Of course, this is only a well-intentioned suggestion, or for the promoter, as a resolute ministry, or for anyone who has the right under the law, i.e. to be the legislator of the law, and that can be any MP, or any one of us. I think it's logical from another aspect of what we're doing is extending the deadline, because in the opposite of the Ministry of the Interior, if we don't extend this deadline, it's mandatory to file as many as 400,000 charges, and that criminal charges, due to reasonable suspicion that a criminal act has been committed, would be allowed to hold arms. Therefore, in order to avoid one such, in my opinion, a completely absurd situation, especially for those citizens who have acquired their rights to arms, to suffer certain consequences relating to the prosecution, the prosecution of proposals or indictments, judgmental court decisions and so on. Therefore, the SPS once again supports our esteemed colleagues and their proposal, because it is essential that we allow all those who fall under this law to comply with their armed papers with the provisions of the law and once again stands the appeal of the Proposer to finally specify and correctly standardise all the provisions of the law on which we hold the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73184	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73185	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, rarely who have come across an undivided support from all parliamentary groups and representatives of different parties, when it comes to this, however, simple legislative proposal, but at this point it seems necessary and necessary for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I can agree with many of the thoughts that have been said today, but I will remind myself of some of the things that I have talked about when certain similar legal provisions are involved, or other substances, which is that in some future period, it is necessary to do a serious analysis – what the adoption of the Law on Weapons and Ammunition in 2015 has brought about, what are good, what are possibly the bad parts of that law, and then simply, by respecting a broad range of all thoughts, to make up an appropriate proposal that would be most of them. Of course, no legal proposal can be an absolute measure of all those who come under the fact of this law, because someone will always find themselves thinking differently, but it is our duty to interpret and do this in a proper way. Why am I saying this? I expect, indeed, that from another reason why Serbia is quite different today than in 2012, rather different than in 2015 when this law is passed, far different and better than in 2010, when some other laws concerning our lives have been passed, and this has to create one appropriate basis for the future of everything, when it comes to laws that need to have one long-term fact and apply, to make analyses in the preparation of these laws work in an appropriate manner. Although this is a law where, as I think, it is a fundamental proposal for the adoption of the Ministry of the Interior, we cannot separate the application of this law, from the Ministry of Justice, or from the judicial system, and as I think it is necessary to re-analyze well how much of the network of courts is appropriate today and whether it should be returned to the old network of courts and restore the schedule of municipal and district courts, means not only names but also essentially return them to something which nevertheless the tradition of the Serbian judiciary has shown to be far more functional, so it should be brought into line with the Law on Arms and Ammunitions. I agree that there are errors in evaluations when it comes to members of the Ministry of the Interior and some discretionary powers they have, whether for a reason, for no reason, good enough, well-qualified assessment, so I say there is a denial of the right to hold arms or not, but then you need to consider what part of those procedures, which are necessary, should be the Ministry of the Interior, and what part of yourself should be taken over by either the prosecution or the courts. I think that some priority part of the job, when it comes to the confiscation of a weapon, of a temporary type, should remain in the hands of the Ministry of the Interior, but every further decision on the fate of that weapon, that is, the right to possess it should be brought to the courts and stand by its decisions. Why the courts? We've just had different situations. We've had a situation where reports of domestic violence or some conflict or the existence of a misdemeanor are not reacted in a good enough way or an estimated threat to other people's safety in some future period and instead of some weapon that was temporarily taken away at the moment with the same weapon was committed murder after a month. I don't want to put any weight on these things by the people who work at the Ministry of the Interior, but they should be relieved of that part of the story, as far as their reaction is concerned. The courts are in any case, and the prosecutions are far more qualified to decide whether someone should be denied the right to hold weapons in what time period. The fact is that, and that's good, is a very small number of crimes committed with legally registered weapons, but I'm afraid when we talk about it, we're talking about crimes that have been committed with imagination, which have been done in an effect, but when we talk about criminal acts out of malpractice, I'm afraid there are a lot of crimes that we don't even know have happened. If that number of criminal acts, random injuries, random murders, when unauthorized persons or children, more practically, come into the opportunity to take into the hands of weapons that are loaded, which have ammunition and then something ugly happens afterwards, then and because of one single scratch there is an excuse to find a way, and whether these are steel cabinets, safes and the rest of which will make the weapon unreachable or at least very, very difficult for those who are not equipped to handle the weapon, bear their justification in the whole story. You know, there were interesting suggestions, I'm not a hunter, even though this initiative came from hunting associations, and it was primarily initiated to get into all of this, with this legal proposal, I say, I'm not a hunter, I don't like hunting, but I absolutely don't dispute anyone's right to love it, to do it, and it's just something that's his choice. I remember when this law was passed, some of the circumstances, even though I wasn't an MP, that there were amendments to allow hunters to go hunting with them and guns and guns, but for hunting purposes. I've come to the conclusion that it may not be necessary for hunters to go hunting for rabbits, quails, masts, pheasant, but when they go hunting for a more serious game, when it comes to wolves, bears, wild boars and so forth, they can come into a situation where they need a gun to save their own lives. At the very least, there's also a murder of mercy when it comes to some animal shop that won't cause any injuries from a hunting rifle, which she's got, to die so quickly, to shorten her suffering. So I was given the excuse that was given at the time and the explanation that I heard it would be an abuse and an opportunity to allow someone to carry a weapon without a special permit that implies carrying a weapon. I think this should be seriously considered, because as far as I know, hunting isn't going when anyone wants it. There are exactly certain days for hunting, a certain time under certain conditions, or it is regulated in a restricted closed area in hunting grounds. So if this has its justification in practice and needs to be considered. Some of the other things that are the subject of thinking, which is the return of weapons when all of the actions are completed, completed, so the parties are also released, the criminal charges are dismissed, we have a situation that not everyone, of course, but in certain police stations refuse to return these weapons, and these are simply things that are not acceptable and that needs to be sought out appropriate solutions. Again, I find such a solution to the extent that I have suggested that the temporary confiscation of weapons or even permanent confiscation of weapons should be entrusted exclusively to courts in a special procedure. Of course, we can talk about a lot of things now, but in order for this to not sound unserious, we need to make it clear that to adopt quality and good law or more serious changes and additions, essential changes and additions take time, need a good analysis, need a public debate, need to hear opinions of both hunters and citizens who hold weapons for personal safety and those who want to hold weapons as trophy weapons, those who are involved in shooting, simply people who like to own weapons even if they don't need them for any reason. Only in such a way can we come up with a solution that is acceptable to all. I have to say one thing that may not be popular, it doesn't bring political points, maybe even on the contrary, but I had the chance to vote last year in March of the month, or at the end of February, that the deadline that has already expired for another year. I have now joined the initiative of Mr. Marijan Risticevic and my colleague, Bojan Torbica, and I am appearing here as a proposing, and I want to say loud and clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- if in the next two years the same situation is repeated as now that almost two-thirds of those who own weapons do not, in the meantime, do what the law says, in 2022, if I am an MP in the National Assembly, I will be absolutely against that deadline being extended for one day. A serious and responsible state must stand by the laws it makes and I will say one more thing that is absolutely unpopular here. The man I was sick of looking at in politics and not thinking well about, and it's about Mladjan Dinkic, the one thing I appreciate and respect about him is after those long before the registration of cars that were allowed from foreign plates in some easier procedures, the last time they said they'd never agree that it was happening again, they respected it. Of course everything needs to be included in this. I agree with these considerations, because they are our thoughts, but they were not possible in this legislative proposal on such short notice to prepare themselves, which is that as much as the MUP, as its capacities allow and enable it, they include actively in calling and informing citizens and that this business, when it comes to respecting the Law on Arms, Ammunition and its provisions in the next two years, is completed in one orderly, timely and correct way. I repeat, the promoters did, of course, thank all my colleagues for their support. We all understand that at this point, something that needs to be done, but trust me in two years if this doesn't give an appropriate result against any extension, I will personally vote, and I believe that it will also do so by the legislators of this law that is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73186	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and SNS MPs will support this bill, which was signed by our three distinguished friends, colleagues, headed by Marijan Risticevic, but I would like to start by saying that. to ask myself, and I see that everyone is asking themselves in this debate so far -- how has this problem ever happened, and why are we discussing this today when as a society, as a state, we have experience replacing IDs, driver's licenses, health books? These are all biometric documents that we've already changed, which have been changed to say in millions of circulations, and this is about some five hundred thousand to one million to the most, never exactly given us the exact data, pieces of weapons in new armed biometric sheets. Every law in any area determines the policy of the state, regulates the rights and responsibilities of those to which the law applies. What caused the problem? In my opinion, and I was actively involved in solving these problems for a time when I was in two terms president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, I had often meetings at the MUP about these problems with a team of people we made together with arms lovers' associations, NAOS, with businessmen dealing with arms trafficking, etc., we had joint teams with which we went to talk to the MUP, what was the problem? Every law to apply must have sublaws. We know that here. These are orders, regulations, decisions and rules. Those rules, the citizens of Serbia don't know, the people don't know, we don't see here. There is no public debate for them, there is no debate in parliament. They're bringing in certain offices. We call it popular bureaucracy, administration. When I was first elected a fellow MP 20 years ago, an experienced administrative worker in the Assembly told me, I learned a lot from him, he retired a long time ago – Dragan, I was young, such a junior, we office officials are ever green, and you politicians are October. You're coming and going, but we're always here and more on this law case, and you can see that in a lot of other laws, that's what happened. When these rules were passed in the first wave, what is logical when the law is passed, what we have learned in these talks, that rules are then done and that they are derived from the bill to be applied. We learned here in these discussions that the law that was passed, as it was said, in 2015 that the rules for it were written in 2010, long before the law was passed in the Ministry. She was even the second government, even the second minister, but those people in the offices wouldn't have changed. What's the first thing the law didn't apply and what it did, not the law those rules they didn't apply, made a general problem, those sublegal acts, that's what among them, as they said, here's a colleague of the Komlenski 500,000 users of the weapon. There are also those of us as a society who need every society and every society, which is, for example, hunters and sportsmen. Today we look forward to our sportsmen winning the European medal championship, but the application of this law has brought them a problem immediately. One of the first people who had a problem was a representative of Serbia in the shooting, I'm not going to say the name, it doesn't matter, which had a lot of trouble while he transferred his weapons to the competition and went back to the border crossing because of a single rule, and there was a number of people who reacted, so there was a change in that rule, but it's still complicated. We're talking hunting tourism. We want to develop this business branch, and hunters who come from foreign countries from Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Germany, Austria, America to Serbia to hunt, spend several hours sitting at border crossings and waiting for police officers to fill out the required forms in the 21st century, and of course it bothers those agencies who want to develop hunting tourism. What else happened that one of your colleagues already said? Let's just say, I don't know if you know the exact information, but 98% of the crimes committed by firearms in Serbia were done with illegal weapons, which means that the owners of the legal weapon are safe citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, 98% of just 2% happen and said colleague Komlenski exactly what crimes unfortunately are the most common crimes with legal weapons are these in domestic violence, but what we're related to organised crime and the rest of what's happening is 98% of the weapons that the state doesn't know exists. This is what should be a blow and a way to watch how to reduce that number of weapons to reduce with our citizens, and this is the people of the economy, we also have a dedicated industry, we have a great factory in the flag, the flag Kragujevac that makes great, very high-quality weapons and guns that are exported around the world and that is famous and famous on all sides, but with this application of laws and regulations that have been made and they have a problem. First of all, the law provides for a medical examination, and it's not controversial, but no one knew what kind of medical examination. It's arranged by the health department's regulation. The first rulebook that was made was for 15 reviews and was more complicated than for those who were running to be pilots, to fly planes. We had a quick reaction, Minister Loncar reacted quickly, and we acted as MPs, colleagues Canak and I, we had multiple meetings there, and he changed the rules and today he said acceptable if the vision is controlled possible with help or glasses when the hearing is controlled possible with the apparatus, and imagine the first rule predicted a ratio of weight and height to someone owns a weapon or for example intended that people who have elevated sugar couldn't be weapons owners, in blood, sugar in the blood. And doctors, people who suffer from it suggest at least four miles of walking a day. So what better way to go than to be a hunter, to walk 10, 12 kilometers in nature, if he already has a problem with blood sugar. So amazing things have happened. But don't lie down, they're organized on the ground of Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, hunters to gather in one place, 100 of them. They invite and build a laboratory from Belgrade that's licensed to do that. Doctors come down, other citizens come down, not only hunters, but other citizens who own weapons, and they need to replace the armed list, come to this place to be examined, remember the health care homes that someone takes their job and suddenly hires a health inspection and prohibits that kind of examination. Then the people of Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenice, must, in addition to paying a medical checkup fee, sitting in a car or on a bus, losing one working day, going there to the Kingdom where they are the closest to being licensed, spending money on a trip, spending money on lunch, and it costs them twice as much. Here, a colleague here just now, is not here, from the New Prince says his fellow citizens from the New Prince must go to Kikind. No one can come to the New Duke to give them a checkup. That's one of the reasons why this whole process has been slowed down and we've come into a situation so we can't finish the job within the scheduled time limit. My fees were never supposed to be introduced. That's what the debate is all about. All the gun users, gun owners, paid the state's taxes. They paid when they bought the guns. For the change of the gun list, from paper to biometric, they need to pay compensation, the cost of making that gun list, that's fine, that's not even 1,500 dinars. The fees for decomposed and unwrought pipes were never supposed to exist. The fairest thing would be to have the next government abolish them completely, not to reduce them as they are now, because we are making citizens of first and second order, some have paid more, some less and god me, why don't we, we have so much money, we spend in the budget for judicial expenses where citizens get the Republic of Serbia in courts and that part of that, means only that money that's scheduled for taxes, we get back to the citizens who paid. That would be fair. Will we, how, which will be the composition of Parliament, which government, whether it can be done, we will see, but that is something that would be most honest to do. Those fees were absolutely unnecessary and that's one big dilemma, what to do in the next period. People, I say it was passed in the rules, it doesn't say in the law, and we've seen the law here, we haven't seen the regulations, and one more thing is happening now, people who have been safe and who have quickly solved the question of replacing the list, they'll run out of health checks next year, and they'll have to go for a second time because for five years, while all the other citizens who have stayed in the current period of re-registration or replacing the gun list, that's better said, they'll go for the first time. Because of these extensions. Once again, some citizens will pay twice, and some won't pay once. Therefore, Serbia's Hunting Union should respect the requirement to comply with the law, to comply with the deadline for the armed list to be 10 years and to have a health check in place for 10 years. It's been spoken here, and that's one big problem, and I'm going to end up with the discretionary right of police officers. It comes out of Articles 11 and 13, however, I have to tell my colleagues, Necessa knows it well, it is in the CAP and this has been transferred from the CAP to this law. So we'd have to regulate both there and here. As my colleague Komlenski said, these matters are to be decided by the court, not by police administration or police officers. When we're being punished for a traffic violation, we're not being punished by a cop, we're being punished by a judge. We have a mandate, where we basically make, right, a deal, so he gives us that document, and it's not an agreement, it's not a police matter, it's our own thing. I know about the case in Kučev, where the man was taken from the gun, was tried for why his weapon was taken from him, won in court, won in court, cleared of all charges, the police department in Pogorevec refused to return his weapon to him. The chief of Belgrade, I don't know if she's retired now, named Kasalica, says it's mandatory, sends the maltenes, orders to Pogorec, that his weapons must be returned, they're sending a new team to the security check and they're making a new solution not to return the weapon to the man. You have as many examples as you want. It's something you can't allow anymore. That's what the court has to decide, not cops. I'll tell you what else it can lead to and not that it can, but it's happening in the field. It may not be nice to say, as my colleague Komlenski would say, but hunting users, hunting associations have official faces, hunting directors and hunters who are employed persons in the hunting association to a hunting ground user. Those under the Law of Wildlife and Hunting must work with official weapons and when they go to the field, they must carry with them official weapons. If they don't have official weapons, they can't do that job and lose their jobs. So if they're banned from carrying guns, they lose their jobs. If some hunter or hunter doesn't let some high-profile cop go hunting whenever he wants and shoots whatever he wants, without permission, he can live to be this way and this method pressed, and yet I tell you, it happened and he loses his weapon and loses his job because of it, without the court's decision and without the will of his employer. It's something that we shouldn't allow in the future, and that's why we should change these things, so, among other things, these Articles 11 and 13 in the Law, but in the next two years, all of these are dilemmas that we need to remove. I have to say one thing, purely for colleagues who have said to correct them in some things, say, hunting associations don't do weapons training, they do shootings that are licensed for such a thing, and also don't be accused here as the largest institution in the country by the Greens, the Greens Association that we're talking things that don't comply with the law, they can't shoot any animals, not even a jackal, by the citizens who own guns, it's a crime. It can only be done on a hunting day, with hunting permits and with the legislation that determines it. So none of the jackals can protect their sheep with a rifle, but there is a legal procedure as it is done. So, having someone owns a weapon doesn't have to be a reason to shoot whenever he wants and however he wants to, but in any case, these things we said have to be changed and it's a good thing we're extending by two years, but I'm saying again, the problems will stay if we don't change these rules. And as far as the law goes, there's this, as is said, only two or three members of the law are controversial, if we could bring them in line with the CAP, those problems would be gone. I repeat, the SNS parliamentary club will support our colleague Marijan Risticevic's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73188	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73189	Thank you, Chairman. Here, briefly, the proposal itself is brief, it is essentially about the extension of the deadline, about the extension of the deadline by two years in order for this re-registration to be carried out. In that sense, I believe that none of us are against it, on the contrary, that extension is granted, but some of the things that have been heard in the debate are also important and should be taken care of. So, it's not a question here just that we as a people are a little bit like that, we wait for the last moment in everything, and then there's a crowd. So, not only can citizens not only arrive to reregister or register under this law, but even if citizens are now moving in, like they are, registering, they simply cannot make their demands that, at least in different parts of Serbia, I have such information, they cannot simply be met. That's why it's simply an extortionary measure. But some of the dilemmas mentioned here, and in previous exposure and some earlier, are something to keep in mind. Among other things, we have to ask the general question of what is wanted by this law, not by these amendments now, it is clear what is wanted, here we want an extension of the deadline for citizens to arrive to avoid crowds and to avoid sanctions for those who do not arrive within the proposed deadline, or until now. That's something to support. But the question of the legislator's intensities is generally raised when it comes to this arms and ammunition law. I'm a pacifist man, I'm not a literate, I don't like guns, I know some fascinated by weapons, not only as hunters, but also ministers and members of various parties, leaders, were, as I would say, in various, and even some officials of some institutions, these protectors of citizens, etc., there were different tendencies, there should be respect for different tendencies. I don't understand, I have to admit, that propensity towards guns, shootings, that sort of thing. But the trouble is, I suppose the legislator's intention was to reduce the number of non-registered weapons in Serbia. If that's the intention, if that's really the intention, I'm not sure this law makes it easier. I think this law only makes life difficult or complicated. It complicates the lives of those who have legal weapons and who intend to continue to have it, not only in financial terms, not only because of this fee paid, not only because of this review, but not only because of this course and the arms handling training, although all of these are real in the best case of complications for people who want to have or retain weapons, and rich and financial costs, i.e. impact on their pocket. It's not the biggest problem, in my opinion, with this law, I'm not speaking with this amendment, or the extension of the deadline, it's undeniable. I think it will be said again, as often happens, that I will pay those who are, and it has also been heard a little while, those who are zealous, those who have reported weapons, who have registered, who did not intend to hold it illegally. Basically, I think that now, as I would say, the owners of non-registered, or the owners of illegal weapons are doing better, because it is unclear what the state is going to do about it. We know that under this law, controls are carried out, not announced controls of how, for example, those who have reported weapons, how they keep them and the warehouse, so the weapon is taken away if it is concluded that it is not adequately guarded. It makes sense, there were really tragic cases of a child getting his hands on guns, guns, guns, going off and being a family tragedy. So, I'm not against that solution itself, but I mean here, we're making a cut and a little too hard on the owners of the registered, registered gun owners, and we've got an entire army, you don't know what it is, but the estimate is that it's hundreds of thousands of unregistered weapons. The state is being forced to control it in some way, including punishment, including financial charges for those who have legal weapons and want to keep it, and to the owners of illegal weapons, nothing is done more or less, and it is not clear what can be done, except the appeal to report or hand over weapons. I have a concrete example, and I know cases of people being two years ago, so in last year's calendar year, that their weapons were taken away, a specific gun was taken away because of inadequate storage, or storage during one of these unannounced controls. This year, a reminder arrives this January, or arriving to pay his taxes, means now in January 2020, and the weapons were taken away in 2018. And there's a lot of cases like that. So again, they're punished, sanctioned and double and multiple, and even unfairly, although I say, I don't have too much affinity for that kind of sport and entertainment that has to do with guns, but anyway, many are sentimental things, many have inherited it. Most of the time, it's some kind of family heirloom, and it's hard to part with that weapon. I know, there's a way to preserve it as a trophy, to disable it, etc. It's all right, but I say again, those who respect the law and who try to respect it, more or less, even at the last minute, are punished by those who directly violate it. And it's not just about this subject, but I'd say it applies in general. It is simply possible that the amendments to this Arms and Ammunition Act should also be considered and considered and, although I agree, more should be arranged by some other general legal solutions. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73190	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? If not, we go in order of the MPs according to the application for a word. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73191	Thank you very much. I will support the proposed decision because it is necessary, but at the same time I can pass on that many Serbian citizens who have permission to carry arms, own and carry weapons have a number of objections. These remarks are considered primarily in the fact that if they meet all the requirements, such as medical examination, confirmation that they are not convicted, that they are not under investigation, that they have a weapons safety deposit box, etc., to pass the control of police officers of the security depository and the way in which the weapons are kept. When all this is over and they pay all these taxes, when they come for the replacement of the gun list, they are welcomed by an officer who says, we have estimated that you do not need weapons. Bring your weapons. Now two questions are being asked. First of all, what is the obvious assessment by the police administration when the person went through the whole procedure? Secondly, how can private property be taken away? The weapon is private property, such as car, tractor, etc. The other thing is weapons abuse. I can understand that, based on the court's decisions, he's found guilty of the use of weapons and after that, a procedure for the confiscation of weapons is initiated. But if there are no elements of criminal prosecution, etc., I don't see any reason why people are taking away their weapons. Don't disarm the population, because we never know why it'll be good for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73192	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73193	I thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, a respected colleague of Mariana, who is proposing this law, the citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I have always talked about the problems of all our citizens. Otherwise I was elected here in the Assembly from the SNS list, and I represent the United Peasant Party. Otherwise, I come from Svrlig, I must say, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. As regards the proposal for this law, where on behalf of our parliamentary group is signed and proposed this law, I can remind all fellow MPs who are there, there are fellow MPs of the SRS, and others who know that I am back more than a month, perhaps more, asked a parliamentary question concerning the extension of this deadline, to extend the deadline specifically of this law, because March 5th was the deadline when it must be extended, or must reregister the weapons. I said that, I asked the question, where I was later, normally, in a conversation with colleagues from the assembly benches, where I also later spoke with the Hunting Union of Serbia, with the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, who had already initiated and already signalled the problem of the coming deadline, and nearly 400,000 people who have weapons, hunters, failed to register weapons, to get to the point of registering. So that was the beginning of something that we are now finally putting into the congregation meeting. I will normally support it because, as an MP, I have also supported this bill, and so has the president of the Hunting Union, Bratislav Cirkovic, who, I can now say, is very successful in running the Hunting Union of Serbia, where there is a large population of people who will now be able to breathe more freely, as they say, because many of them have failed to enter the re-registration process. This is a big deal for all of us because close to 400,000 people will have the opportunity not to break the law in time, not to get someone to write them up tomorrow and take away their weapons. Big deal for everyone, good thing for everyone, two-year extension, 2020-2022. I have submitted an amendment where I have put it very important that the competent ministry be informed in six months at least once through the media of citizens, whether it's national media, whether it's television or radio, that at least once in six months, citizens are informed that the deadline for extending the registration of weapons comes within six months or a year, and that way these people would know, all of our people would know, that they would do it. Big deal, I say it one more time, because the Hunting Union of Serbia is an association that is really very active, located everywhere on the ground. As I have always said, the Associations and the Hunting Union of Serbia are very active in protecting nature, from pests and all that it does wrong. Here, now we have an African swine fever that is present in us and in southeast Serbia, an infectious disease that is very dangerous to animals. I think this is going to be a big deal for all of us to extend this deadline. Normally, we will all be active and in the coming period I will always talk in the Assembly about the problems of all our citizens, how Srlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, the southeast of Serbia and all of Serbia, because I work with people, talk to people, hear people's problems here and here in the Assembly about these problems I'm talking about. It's not a problem to say something needs to be done, and it's not done, so it's supposed to be said here. Here, we heard it now, and we expect Wednesday to vote safely to extend this deadline for weapons reregistering and thus give the possibility that those who didn't do it will do it. I've always talked about all the things here, I mean, we need to talk about something else, and I'm going to point out now, because the taxes paid for what's got guns, they're taxes that are back 20 years away, it'd be good if those taxes were lifted, that those taxes weren't as much as they are now, that all people who have guns or that they were paying less taxes, or that they were able to find a way to be less tax, or less price for that tax. We have situations where people who haven't paid these taxes for years come into a situation where over 100,000 dinars owe, there's interest on interest, so people come into a situation where one of these perpetrators comes to their house and does even more damage. It would be good if we here in the Assembly to potentiate and abolish the gun fee and thus relieve the problem of our people who have weapons. It's normal to reregister. This way it is given the possibility to reregister. Once again, I, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support the bill, Mr Risticevic's proposal and the parliamentary club where I am. Otherwise, I can say that I didn't sign this bill, along with my colleagues, because that day I had a congregation in Srlig and I couldn't come. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, this is a great thing for all of us, to allow our citizens no longer to worry there will be no extensions. The extensions will be. There's one more thing we need to talk about, and that's to find a way to end a gun tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73194	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73195	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, today the draft law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted by our fellow MPs Marijan Risticevic, Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the need to extend the deadline for the reregistering of weapons, which expires in a few days, on March 5th, more specifically. As colleagues say in their explanation, by this deadline that has already been extended, there has been no re-registration of both weapons and weapons. In that sense, I would draw attention to some other aspects of importance for gun owners in Serbia. As our authorised representative said, there are over 950,000 registered weapons in Serbia, short and long pipes. We adopted the Arms and Ammunition Act in 2015, when, apart from the existing condition, a mandatory check on the health status of gun owners and arms handling training was established. Under the Law, sublaws have also been adopted which specify the procedures for obtaining weapons, as well as the conditions for re-registration, i.e. re-registration of already registered weapons. These acts have made it necessary for all gun owners to have, in addition to the other conditions, confidence in their health status and proof that they have been trained to handle weapons. This slowed down the application of the law, primarily because of large taxes and taxis, so many owners didn't want to reregister their weapons. Many have not been able to do so, but mostly all the reasons are at a pretty high cost that owners had to pay to reregister their weapons. It should not be forgotten that among the owners is a large number of those who inherited the weapon and that it is part of the family tradition. In this regard, it would be good to consider the wider amendments to this law, to reduce taxes and simplify procedures, in order to allow most owners to reregister and retain their weapons. Today's debate has shown the need to adopt amendments and amendments to this law, or to adopt a completely new law, with the direct involvement of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, hunting associations and other entities, in order to solve this serious problem in our society and our country in a systematic and quality way. Unfortunately, many owners now return weapons to which they are emotionally bound. What most of the owners I've talked to have as a reason to return weapons are complicated and very expensive weapons handling training. It's okay to train every new owner who wants to get a gun for the first time, but the old owners see this procedure as a problem. When it comes to re-registering, I think it's a good thing that its extension is proposed for two years, since according to the data available, only about 250,000 owners have reregistered their weapons. With more than 950,000 weapons of short and long pipes in Serbia according to data, this means that just over one quarter has been reregistered. There is also a hunting weapon, for which carrying and keeping is also a complex procedure. For example, if a hunter goes hunting with a loaded rifle, he has a potential problem until he gets to the hunting grounds, because he shouldn't be transporting a contracted hunting weapon by law. On the other hand, hunters in hunting grounds don't always have the conditions to rapidly and safely assemble weapons, so problems are already emerging on this plan. What's for sure is the need to extend the re-registration deadline in any case, because it will allow everyone who wants to re-register to do so over the next two years. In doing so, I put first the importance of this process for hunting associations and hunting Serbia as a whole, which is a significant export potential. A large number of foreigners are coming to Serbia's hunting grounds, paying very richly for their catches. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of the draft law amending the Arms and Ammunition Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73196	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73197	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's the right time, here, just before the parliamentary elections are called to sum up the results we've had in passing and so on. election laws and draw the line after an inter-party dialogue on improving electoral conditions. Over the past months, we have adopted amendments and amendments to the laws that have just been the subject of inter-party dialogue, and above all regarding public procurement, financing of political activities, preventing corruption, we have had the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which we have given greater powers to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown its readiness to participate actively in the dialogue and to accept that it is working to improve electoral conditions. In addition, we had on the agenda and we adopted amendments to the Law on Local Elections and Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which we introduced a newspaper into electoral legislation that will greatly facilitate participation in elections and an election match that will result in greater representativeness both in the Republic of Parliament and in local parliaments. So, three things I would single out here as important, first of all, is the reduction of censorship from five percent to three percent, which we increased, as I said representativeness, we increased the chance of more smaller parties entering parliament to represent the interests of citizens who voted for them in the elections and thus created the possibility of hearing different political opinions and ideas. This reduction in censorship, we also talked about it, does not exactly contribute to the SNS due to the number of mandates but we have now shown that we put the interests of citizens and the interests of the state before party interests. The other thing I'd like to say is, a relationship to national minorities. This relationship in Serbia is already at a high level, and we can see that through amendments and additions to the legislation concerning electoral legislation. So we want to enable them to enter parliament and we expect them to continue to participate actively in making decisions that are important to Serbia. We have foreseen that national minority councils confirm to the parties of national minorities on their status precisely to prevent the abuses that occurred before, because the parties of national minorities are indeed in the republican parliament and local parliaments to represent the interests of members of national minorities. The third thing is the higher participation of women in the legislative authority, or 40% of women on the lists, by making sure that out of the five on the list there will be women. I hope more women will be in the legislative power in the coming period. We also formed the Supervisory Commission in the National Assembly, which will oversee the conduct of elections and all participants in the election process. So, if we sum up all of this, absolutely all the conditions are met in order to hold legitimate elections and a fair political game. The Serbian Progressive Party is indeed ready to check the election will of citizens. Behind us are the results we have often talked about here in parliament, but on the other hand there is a good and very clear plan for Serbia's further development. We want a modern, orderly and financially stable country where living standards will be better, in which there will be room, especially for young people to live and work instead of leaving our country abroad. We do not want to return to various Gilasi and Jeremici, we do not want the government to have Bosko Obradovic, who, with the flag of Serbia, is banging on the door of the Assembly, we do not want anarchy and uncertainty, which was presented to us daily by the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. We don't want an over-indebted budget like by 2012, we don't want the affairs and abuses that were at the time Gilas was mayor of Belgrade. We do not want those who shut down factories, who fired people, to return to the disputed privatisations that took place in the period until 2012 when the SNS took over. The Serbian Progressive Party led by Aleksandar Vukic has shown and proved many times that Serbia can develop, that all parts of Serbia can develop evenly, that it can progress and that it can be at the level of the truly most developed countries of Europe and the world. I am sure that citizens will also support such a policy in the upcoming 26 April elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73198	Thank you. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73199	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I will speak of this law of arms that is very important. With a lot of things in that law, I might personally disagree, but I think one thing, that we should accept it for one pure reason which, later on, within these two years, which you add to this part, will be able to do a lot of things and change. I think Mr. Shormaz said a lot of things as a hunting expert and as a man who's in it, my colleague, because I've been hunting too, and I know what the problems are. Hunters have always been part of a great defense for the state, and that's what it turned out to be, and now it's down here with that little idiot, where the hunters have provided full support to the military and the police. The only problem I know right now is, in fact, the size of the impositions that are foreseen by this law. I've talked to a lot of people, people give up their weapons just because they don't have the means, because if we're realistically looking at each process, it takes about 200 euros, starting with the gun closet, starting with medical examinations, where they can, from travel, from everything else. So all of this has its own expenses that many can't. Second, many are considered betrayed. They're members of the security service who, in their time, got their weapons on a gift and now they have to re-pay for the registration of those weapons that are actually just a memory to them. It's the same with the weapons that came from the inheritance. So, there's a lot of illegal weapons, and it's good to have this law passed, because I can say that what we have information about the weapon that's been reported, almost as much as there are weapons that haven't been reported, that people keep in houses hidden from God, and they use it for potential poaching and for some of the things that aren't allowed. We have to take care of every citizen here. I wonder, however, how will those who do not have weapons behave in this law, and who are in the situation of assaulting personal property? We didn't pass that law, that a man could defend himself within his own house and within his own yard. Taking away a weapon without guilt, that's what Nejo said, is the question of whether or not it's legal. I don't think these weapons factories have any more work to do. There are a lot of weapons on the market, used, that are given, maltene, for a bagatella that stays in the MUP, and I think that this law, if it doesn't change it within these two years, and we're going to have some kind of a normal level, we're going to have a big problem with all those who have guns so far, and I can say that it's for some people, especially older people, especially sugars. What they say – walking means a lot. So, there will be much work to be done to bring this law into line with the needs of our society over time, and that the aim of all this, in fact, is not to forget the legalisation of weapons and not to be just a problem, which is being solved in a certain way, without these other problems that are coming into play right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73200	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73201	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Bulgarian national minority on their holiday, the holiday of Martenica and to congratulate them on the beautifully organized exhibition that is in the hall of the Assembly and on the opportunity to get acquainted with the customs of our fellow citizens. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the debate that has developed on this law, not so much about the law itself, because it is undeniable, and I will say that in the voting day we will support this law, because it is better to extend the deadline, than that they remain only illegal and in some legal limbo, but we hope that this will not be like in the case of, say, senior students that every year, or two years, the deadline for the registration of weapons is extended. What I'd just put a little bit of a grudge on the legislators is that they didn't explain why two-thirds of the people didn't reregister their weapons. The fact is that Serbia is the first in the number of weapons, but also the fact that it must be repeated that it is among the last for the abuse of registered weapons. It is also a fact that criminals, or those who abuse the carrying of weapons, will never report their weapons and that in this field it is necessary to tighten the work, primarily the MUP, whose job is to bring in such individuals and more stringent and more effective punishment for their non-compliance with the law. Unfortunately, here again we have had the opportunity of bad practice that is repeated frequently, which is that the poorly planned and poorly estimated deadline, which is the lack of most laws that go through this House. Also, these two years that the law provides would be good to make wise use of and to discuss the relationship that the state and society have with those who respect the laws of this country. So, we should open a debate about whether people who have a desire to defend their home, property, their family, potential criminals or heroes of this society. So these are debates and topics that lead to much more serious parliaments, contemporary discussions, so I don't think we should run away from that debate either. Starting from the principle that human life is the source of all the first, we of the Modern Serbian Party believe deeply in the responsibility of each individual and we believe that the state should not punish people who decide to defend their home threshold from criminals and who want to endanger their property, life, or the life of their family. So these people shouldn't have a dilemma about whether to react when their property or life is at stake, or because of their reaction and defense of their property, they might end up in prison. That's the subject of amending the Code of Criminal Code that we, as a parliamentary group, have proposed here, but unfortunately, it didn't turn out to be on the agenda. Another very important thing about this law is the financial nature, so the people who responded within the deadline and paid for the re-registration paid 50% more of the people who did it and who did it after the new year. So maybe it wouldn't be bad enough to consider some of the money-gathering processes for those people who invested more. Also, the taxes and taxes themselves applied to people who possess weapons are high, extremely high, and the money people have to allocate to train their weapons is also high expenditure for them. We had a great presentation here about what hunting weapons mean and how it is used and it is not bad to repeat that there are a huge number of inherited weapons, and that these are people who do not go hunting and who do not plan to go hunting, or who keep that weapon in memory of grandfathers, parents, etc., it is again envisaged that if they want to have that weapon, they must register with hunting society and pay for more taxes, which is another unnecessary blow to the Serbian citizens' budget. Also, when we talk about the reasons for having weapons, of course, it's not just a element of sentiment that someone has toward a weapon, it's that people have guns because they're afraid of their own safety, because they don't believe in the state that they can adequately respond and solve their problems. So, in this place, I can only appeal to the future prime minister or president of the party who is likely to win the next election, to give thanks in the next session for the services of former Ministry of Interior, Nebojsa Stefanovic, whose job was to create a sustainable system, an internal defence, which citizens will have confidence in, and with their numerous affairs and incompetence only deepened this gap that citizens have towards the state. The only solution, therefore, to stop young people from Serbia, is not to offer them overly optimistic GDP growth of 4%, 4.5%, but to create a security environment where people will feel safe in their workplace, at home, at work or on their way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73202	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73203	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard from the approved legislator all arguments for which we should adopt the proposed amendments and the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group will certainly support this proposal. Today's session runs without the presence of a part of the opposition controlled by Dragan Gilas, although every day there are fewer and fewer in this Alliance for Serbia, so we have been denied, let me say, for their position on this, but also on many other issues, and on topical issues. But I'm not worried, Chairman, about them. They will certainly already have space on their media where, as so far, they will make the worst possible accusations against the government of Serbia, the functionator of the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic, who is their daily target. Which would come to the National Assembly to face attitudes, to fight with arguments when it is easier for Slavisa Lekic and the team to make some films that will later turn to "N1" and other media, and where Alexander Vukic will be insulted in the worst possible way. The only problem is when they realize that they haven't been able to break Alexander Vukic's ratings, then they just go crazy, angry with their powerlessness. It is their policy, them and their sponsors, various tycoons, Gilas, Solak, Miskovic, and others, and all that stands in one sentence – as many attacks as possible between Serbia and Vukic, every day and on every topic possible. I expect soon to get news that the Wolf is, in fact, the main culprit and the coronary virus in the world, I think it's a matter of days when we're going to read something like that on their media. God forbid one of them announces that we have made some progress somewhere, because there is no news for them when salaries and pensions increase, it is not news for them when Vukic brings new investment and opens a new factory, it is not news for them when a highway or any other capital, infrastructure investment is opened, it is not news for them when the investment cycle "Serbia 2025" is announced, which envisions an investment of 14 billion euros, which is the height of Serbia's annual GDP, so we will invest a whole budget, but it is not news to them. None of them will publish data that over the last five years there are 230,000 more private sector employees than in the previous period, 230,000 more citizens in Serbia, so we are not talking about the public sector, we are not talking about state administration and state-owned enterprises, I am talking only about the private sector, 230,000 Serbian citizens are more employed in the past five years than before. We've been listening here all morning from a dilettante of charges of some kind of partiality, of some party employment, of hiring party personnel in the public sector, and then you look at the data and you see that 230,000 people are more employed in the private sector than in their time. So, we develop a private sector, we reduce regional employment differences, we develop road infrastructure, we develop transport infrastructure, we build clinical centres, we repair the investment environment. It's something that's more and more felt and seen and that's going to be directly reflected in citizens' living standards, and they, the chairman, can keep making movies, make series, let them lie, make up every day, that's all they can do. For all these reasons, I would like to invite us to support today's bill of law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73204	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73205	Here, all the MPs who spoke about this bill had twenty minutes, but I'm talking about those who really talked about the bill. Many criticisms and no praise for this law, and with all these criticisms in the end, they ended up saying they would still vote. That's sweet. I'm kidding, it's not, it's offensive to the National Assembly, and so is the proposal and how this proposal came about. In this law, it is only good because of citizens, because of people who have guns, which will not be questioned by all their weapons, but will have two more years to legalize or reregister the weapons they have. But we remind you that in some attacks of democracy, you have broadly accepted the proposals of the MPs to be discussed and voted, which, of course, we wouldn't mind if you had the same archaic towards everyone. We remind you that you discussed and voted on the proposal Nenada Canka, then Gordana Komic, then Tatjana Macura, so here is Katarina Rakić, so here is Marijan Rističević, Đorđe Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. But we ask you, how come it didn't occur to you that on the agenda, here is six months in the assembly procedure, you didn't put in a proposal for an SRS, a whole parliamentary group supported by 100 or more than 100,000 signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where we asked that the existing law on perpetrators be abolished, that the public executioners be effectively abolished? We have submitted a new bill and I simply must mention this, when we talk about these proposals that you are discussing here on a proposal from the MPs. To be clear, now that someone doesn't answer, they may come forward, but we don't mind the MP proposing a law. On the contrary, any MP can do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but we are opposed to you making discrimination and that you MPs of the SRS and more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have supported our proposal, are in fact insinuating. It's not democratic, it's not nice, it's ultimately unfair to the people who live in Serbia. Why did I mention these previous ones, and now I'm not going to elaborate Cank's proposal, not Macurin, not Chomickin, which is why you put it on the agenda? In fact, because they will participate in the elections as some pro-European or as the opposition is already called, and therefore, of course, they have every possible privilege with you in power. Why did colleague Katarina Rakic propose amendments to the Cataster Act? Because Zorana Mihajlovic, because of all her criminal activities, was no longer allowed to come to the National Assembly, because she knew that SRS MPs would remind her of all her criminal activities again. Why is this law proposed today by Marijan Risticevic, Djordje Komlenski and Bojan Torbica? Because it is the Law on Arms and Ammunitions, i.e. amendments and additions to that law, and because Nebojsa Stefanovic was not allowed here to come to the National Assembly, to propose these amendments to the law. I don't know what's funny about the chairman, I guess I'm aware that I'm telling the truth, because he wouldn't be comfortable with us asking him here something about selling weapons in Krusik, because it's a very convenient title of the "Krusik" law, a huge profit from Stefanovic's firm, and a huge loss of "Krusik" and a promise to be solved by the authorities, but here, God, we've come to the election campaign and the authorities haven't solved the problem "Krusika". There were a few statements to - my mother was not involved, or he was as a tourist or he was in this role or that role, but we had no concrete proof of what was really going on in Krusik. This bill, I said, is good at the part that will help Serbian citizens reregister their weapons, but the bottom line is that the existing law based on which this re-registration is going to be done very badly, and that is what all MPs who spoke of this bill said anyway. It is not true that within the deadline that was concluded on March 5th of this year, when the existing weapon was to be legalized or reregistered and those armed leaves changed, it is not true that people did not do it because of sloth, there may be some. The point is that people didn't do it because of the complicated procedure, because they had to go back to medical exams, because re-enlisting weapons for those who already have an orderly license cost an average of about 12,000 dinars. Because this job is very badly organized and people had to wait five o'clock in the morning, so I don't know how far. All of this has helped to have a lot more illegal, although it's not good, you might say illegal, because for that weapon, mostly, people have permission to use this weapon or carry it anyway. Why isn't this law good yet? The medical assurance required to obtain this permit for carrying or holding a weapon, imagine giving special medical institutions that receive the opinion of the Ministry of Health, so that they can carry out these medical examinations. This is truly amazing. It says in the law, pal, don't turn your head, you better read the law and see that's exactly what it says. Furthermore, the law allows migrants to register their weapons. So it doesn't say migrants, but it writes foreigners who do not have a solution to their status in Serbia. So, migrants can get guns, so far they've been using cold weapons and now they can get permission to carry guns. That is why we warn those in charge in the Republic of Serbia that they are having a little more serious fun with the problem of migrants, which is growing in the Republic of Serbia and that they look up to Orban and his way of protecting Hungary, which is extremely patriotic and that should be done in Serbia as well. Why do we still think that, I'm talking about this basic law again, why isn't that law good? If he had been good at this law, surely there wouldn't be this many people who haven't legalized their weapons yet, and it's inappropriate that this is actually only done because of the big taxis, because this is going to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Just imagine a man who, for example, has inherited a weapon from his father, has inherited a gun from his father, and that means who's in his head, but he doesn't have 15 thousand dinars to get this license, and what he's going to have to hand it over will come from the MUP to take it away from him. Who is the weapon given to? There's one in the offices, the police station says it's like that in a crowd, and then the cops share between themselves, see what happens to any of those guns. Which doesn't go back to the military, but goes back to the police, and in the police with that weapon that's being taken away, it's actually a seizure, in our opinion completely illegal, because if someone already has a license so that there's no money to make this chip that you're predicting, that's what you brought in to take that weapon so that it can be manipulated, that it's sold on the black market, rather than that it's as simple as possible and that weapon that's black, that people are allowed to legalize it. All statistics show that at least crimes, i.e. a small number of crimes in Serbia, have occurred with weapons for which citizens have a license to use or carry. Crimes are committed by illegal weapons, you make people have illegal weapons with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73206	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73207	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has already spoken enough of this by law and quite professionally my fellow MPs of the ruling majority, so I have no claim to repeat them. But what I think is important is to point out, which is that somewhere around 500,000 gun owners are still those who have not initiated a procedure to extend the armed list and therefore welcome this bill, which allows these gun owners to get new biometric weapons sheets within two years. That's what's very important. However, honourable MPs, it is very important who can possess all weapons. It's very important with, besides, the security aspect, because it's important for gun owners to behave in times of crisis. The gun owners should be good patriots, because in times of crisis, war will show their skills on the right side, and there have been cases that have not been done, and we have evidence of that in these most recent times of war. It is enough to remember only the Serbian army during the First World War, which was raised on extremely patriotic content in the history books at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, which was extremely well used, or handled with weapons and acquired that military skill and received the epithet of one of the best in the world. In addition to others, German Emperor William II, who said, quote - Serbs gave the world evidence of high military virtues and the greatest military abilities, entering it and handling weapons, on flags, underlining, sprayed with blood, wrote the greatest and brightest victories. It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, you see in the flags, as I said in this quote, with the sprayed blood they wrote the greatest and most glorious victories. Imagine Branislav Trifunovic, one of the leaders of the Gilas protest "one of the five million", who ripped out the Serbian flag in front of a shocked audience at the National Theatre in Leskovac, saying it was a Serb trobobe, quote - the flag of murderers and thieves. It's a finished quote. That's what he said on October 4, 2019. I note that he said it on a round table and that the split of the flag is, quote, a patriotic act. So it wasn't an act or a dramatic text, it was a round table. The German army commander on the eastern and Serbian front, Feld Marshal Augustus von Makenzen, told his soldiers when they went to the Serbian wartime, quote: "You are not going to the Italian or Russian front, or the French front, but to fight a new enemy, dangerous, tough, brave and sharp." It's a finished quote. And added, I quote: “We have fought against such an army as we have heard only in fairy tales. ” Normally, handling weapons is one of those characteristics of our fighters. After a brilliant victory by the Serb army in the Battle of Kolubar in 1914, from Vienna it was told General Pokorek that it would be best to commit suicide. The deceased returned, I quote -- I will, when I see that any other general defeats the Serb army. It's a finished quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing today our pitomatists and our academics at military schools and academys are learning and raising at the works of Radomer Putnik, Stepa Stepanovic, Stevan Sidelic, Milan Tepic, General Vladimir Lazarevic and General Ratko Mladic. Speaking of Ratko Mladic, I believe that this quote that I am about to quote from General Mladic should be found in every history textbook, and every gun holder should know that too. I quote: “The limits are drawn and broken in blood, and the country defends itself with all its strengths. Not a dead soldier who gives his life for his country, that soldier who loses his eternal hearth is dead." It's a finished quote. It is not Ratko Mladic in the war crimes tribunal of The Hague because he committed genocide, because there were no genocides in BiH, especially in Srebrenica. Mladic, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ended up in The Hague because he humiliated NATO officers, especially Western officers, as no one in the history of the alliance. In May 1995, when they bombed Republika Srpska, he tied them alive to the bandits, or targets of the bombing. The heroic venture of General Mladic will be studied, many military academys will be studied for centuries. Our political opponents, decorated in the DS, led by Boris Tadic, did not care about the military or the weapons. They did everything to bring the army down to the lowest possible level. Boris Tadic fired the best generals of Serbia's Army, and he said, I quote -- what the military, and during his rule, would destroy weapons, ammunition, and tanks have been melted into the Smederevo Ironworks. He gave up both Kosovo and Metohija, while I'm talking about him. In a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Mr. Daniel Fried, I quote -- Kosovo and Metohija's independence doesn't necessarily mean losing to fighters if it is properly done in their heads. It's a finished quote. In 27.7.2006, Tadic said in a conversation with US envoy Vizner, among other things, I quote - I broke and accepted KIM's independence as the outcome. It's a finished quote. That puts him into the traitorous scum of our country. Tadic was best told by his DS counterpart, former Ambassador Svetislav Bashar. I apologize for the expressions, because I have to read it in the original, because it's a quote. I quote: "After an election steeple on which he himself worked, Tadic did not call his senses, shook the dust off his back, regrouped and consolidated the DS, chased the thieves, men and women, but as a special full organ fell into a union from which he did not leave today." It's a finished quote. That's what his esteemed colleague, Svetislav Bashar, said in 11.1.2020. Dear People's MPs, imagine that we gave the weapon to academic Dusan Teodorovic called the "shakehead". Well, you know what, that man was fired during the war, that is, during our country's criminal bombing in 1999, fired from the Traffic College as a drone, and, behold, miracles, escaped during the US bombing on the aggressor side. When the bombing was over, he returned to our country and, behold, wonders, who returned him to college, against the law, Serbia's Turajlic. And who else would it be? Because of the role our great actor Nenad Jezdić had at the opening of the highway "Milos Veliki" informed the public that he would no longer buy Jezdić's otherwise excellent rakija, 13.10.2011 said so. There, you see the level of an academic who, because of Jezdić's love for the success of the state in the infrastructure, Teodorovic shines hatred for the state, Mr Jezdić, so he will no longer buy him his otherwise exceptional brandy. And imagine, that was one, the opposition proposed him to be one of the candidates for the president of the state. Alal would be a patriot, good for him. On July 18, 2019, Teodorovic said on TV N1 CIA, on 360 degrees, that MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were recipients, a quote was completed. Is that what he said about academics at the Serbian Academy of Sciences? His esteemed colleague Dusan Stupar, a journalist, otherwise one of the biggest Serbs in our area, said on the same show, quote -- that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a barn. Those from the DS are trying to create a series of small parties from the old prominent leaders who are the most responsible for robbing privatisation and bringing our country to the brink of ambitions such as those from "Serbia 21". As I mentioned earlier Svetislav Bashar and his statement about Mr Tadic, let me say that he best described them all together on May 21st 2019 when he said, I quote - The Democratic Party is a self-administrative interested community of thieves and swindlers, finished the quote. That's why part of the thief and the mule are trying to get back to Serbia's political scene from the waste of history that you've sent respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia to, and part of it boycotts the election. They prove that the lives of Serbian citizens and states have never been their first priority. By contrast, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS will continue to modernise the Republic of Serbia, open factories and build highways, schools, hospitals, improve living standards by increasing wages and pensions in the coming period. In the end, now I'm going to tell the truth that hurts them the most. By contrast, Aleksandar Vucic is a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian reformer, a great Serb patriot and above all a great Serbian patriot who will never, but will never do anything that is not in the interest of the Serbian people and the national communities and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73208	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73209	It took you five years to figure out something that was so obvious, but you couldn't figure it out, maybe one of you. I see today by the speeches, I mean the MPs of the ruling coalition, first of all from the SNS, and only now that what our people would say -- it burns to the nail, when it has to, because today on March 2nd, extend the deadline for more than 400,000 people who have not reregistered their weapons, you are entering this assembly procedure. It is amazing that the lady who is the head of the department of the MUP, although she had seen this fellow Shormaz, visiting 10 days ago in the morning programme on one television, was across from her, the president of the Serbian Hunters' Association, said to me – there is no need to extend the deadline at all, as the promoter says here – extends. Did you see this, Martinovic? It's extending the deadline. I mean, first this is illiterate. Come on, well, it's to the side. And now you're in this situation. What was I supposed to do? We've been paying attention to that since the amendment to this law. You brought it in 2015, and then we couldn't react to the amendments, but we told you when these amendments were and the amendments to the law that the law was not good and that many of its provisions on basic arms and ammunition laws were contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You've brought a huge number of Serbian citizens into a situation, and I'm going to make a parallel, as Professor Dr. Atlagic, who mentioned the famous Serbian dukes and generals – Radomer Putnik, Stepanovic, the Duke of Bojovic. You know, fellow Atlagic, if they were alive today, those generals, under this law, would have to, if they owned guns, go to re-registration. Is that right? That's right. This is how it happened to a general who, by a mark of all these forms and all that you have prescribed, and which is against the constitution, because once acquired the right of someone, by a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you cannot deny, you cannot now say – now he has the right, now he is gone or is diminished. If someone at one point went through all the training, if a valid permit has, for example, been engaged in hunting for years, if he's a retired member of the Army, the Ministry of the Interior, so you can't humiliate these people further. Even that general said that he had a young woman, a doctor who asked him some unsuspecting questions, and a man took part in defending vital national and national interests. On the other hand, this law is in collegiate with Article 197. The constitution, because it predicts a certain retroactivity. If someone had all these rights, you can't say retroactively now that some other rules are in force, because that's the letter of the law. The constitution is above every law in this country. Now you're putting people in a situation, say, people who are guardians of their flock. They only live on it, and there are those who do this job seasonally, so they go to some parts of Serbia, such as the mountains – the Old Mountain, the Dry Mountain, the Places – the Dry Do, the Dojkins, the whole neighborhoods there around Crna Trava, Murtenica, and where counterpart Jojic, Tornička Bobija, the various parts of Serbia, who must and who are all this winter, while you sit here, are warm and beautiful, to defend their flocks from wolves, because they slaughter all the sheep they have or most of it. You've now committed these people, how did they know that you're now going back to extend this deadline, that they have to go to a nearby place where that authority is, or, according to this classification, a health care facility to carry out a checkup and pay all these taxes. They paid for it once, and now they have to do it again. You've had the experience of many other countries to look up to. Now that this is already a situation, give it a better time to extend this deadline to two years, that is, this lady who is the head of the MUP, who claimed that everything is fine and that the officers will achieve it, that the ranks are huge, that employees are fainting there. In the town of Kragujevac, where more than 50,000 people were registered with old licenses, until a few days ago, a re-registration was made only for a little more than 5,000 of those who possess weapons, and you resorted to the adoption of only these provisions where it was extended. The Association of Military Pensioners, as well as members of the police, rightly requires that this law be changed in this particular member that you are now changing, which is only within the deadline. They simply demand that they be excluded from this law and that they do not have to go to that kind of re-registration, that they pay for training to know that they use and carry weapons, because it's really pointless. It's not a small number of them, you know, many of them have served and how honorable, or almost all the country, Serbian, and now you humiliate them in this way. Secondly, many hunters' associations in Serbia, here, I'm going to mention the Kragujevac Shumadi Association, and from Stragar one of the largest associations, and I personally know these people for years, years ago, when I started to do politics, they gave me monographs, then there were 50 years of their association, they explained everything to you, I mean the Government, I mean the Minister of Interior, but you're as if you were still deaf and you didn't want to hear it. It's a category of people who rightly seek, and these are former military employees in the police force, it was a basic means of working. You now have a different crazy situation on the other hand, in national parks: Kopalnik, Fruska Gora, Tara, the Park in the Nature of Vlasina, the area of exceptional qualities, there are people who are diligently doing their job and who are of some sort of, say, mountain-scared people, somewhere like this, they are called and they are tasked to protect both tourists and all of them, in addition to taking care of themselves and to catch those who are engaged in perjury, to carry a rifle, or to defend themselves and to protect the area where they are employed. This Pera Petrovic, here I know some people who work at the Kopalnik National Park just that job, those who go to their home in some village there in the Sub-Balkan village they also have to defend themselves against wolves and simply use weapons. They already went through all the training when they were employed in these national parks and they have valid health records. You are now sending them to these, as the colleague, selected health institutions said, and I'm sorry - how did you come up with the idea that you charge all these medical checks this much when it enters the basic health care paid by every citizen of this country? You retroactively want to charge the farmers, here at the end of your term, that question is not resolved although he personally promised one and the other minister that they would be tax-free farmers, not using basic health insurance on hundreds of thousands of dinars, and now additionally, because some of them, or many of them, own to defend their hearths and their herds of weapons to pay this extra. As long as you prefer to tear the skin off the backs of this poor and tormented people.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73210	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, so I'll just do a few things I said at the beginning of the debate and add some things I didn't get to point out then. In fact, I'm going to do it again, maybe some colleagues won't like it, but basically, the law is more what I'm saying is not going to be liked by people at the Ministry than we're supposed to like here as MPs. I'm always trying to protect the institution of the National Assembly, as the most important institution in the country, but, you know, let's just say the rules we're talking about right now, I repeat again -- the rules that have been passed by some offices in the Ministry were written even before the law, and that's amazing. There are people here who were ministers they know what I'm talking about, and people who know how to do it in procedure. Comrade Jojic, is it possible that the rulebook is written before the law? That's impossible. But when all this has happened and done, then you have to tell the truth about everything that's happened, and that's those in the whole procedure, unfortunately, two categories of people who own guns aren't respected enough. Here are mentioned retired officers of the military, police, etc., but for example, the importance of sportsmen, athletes who deal with shooting and the importance of hunters is not important to society. When I say, the importance of the function they have is not respected at all and is not somehow put in a better position than the other gun owners that have guns because they love, some because they feel more secure or other reasons that we have. What kind of situation happened? Let's say, you have a gun-handling obligation, and now you have a hunter who's been a hunter for 40 years, and he's got his rifle, that two-pipe hunter, the unwrought pipes, which he says here in law, and he with that gun knows everything he does, what kind of black training, and you know why training is scheduled? Because the MUP didn't have a record of who finished training before 2000, and who didn't because by law it wasn't necessary to keep records of it. So those in the building didn't have records of these people going into training, that they finished training, and that's why they went back to training. That was amazing. That's what we've been discussing. I must say that the minister respected the objections of the Hunting Union of Serbia, that at the celebration of the 120 years of the existence of the Hunting Union of Serbia, Director Rebic came out and promised the hunters that it would be abolished. He sent a mandatory instructions to police stations not to ask more of people, because it's pointless. You know, someone's owned a hunting rifle for 40 years. Once a week, he gets permission to go out hunting. We were just talking about discretionary law enforcement. If he'd made any mistake, the neighbor would have cried out, if his neighbor had reported him, his gun would have been taken from him. He owns a gun, hasn't been taken from him, a completely safe citizen, is required from him again. He hasn't made any problems in 40 years, he's been asked to be trained again. Then what happened in the field? Some police administrations respect the instruction, do not ask, for example, in the Kickinda they do not ask to go back to training, but in Zrenjanin they ask to go back to training and there is an inequality of our citizens. What can we think about? Maybe someone in Zrenjanin owns the shooting range, who's close to someone in the police, so why don't you have a little bit more work? We can't let these things happen in our society anymore, which is a relapse of former times. Seventy-five thousand hunters have a social role to play in Serbia. It's wanted, among other things, that no one mentioned it, but now it's occurred to me, to confirm that it's been brought to justice. Of all this documentation, you have to go to court or the D.A.'s office to get confirmation that no one is after you. Wait, there's a discretionary right that shouldn't exist in law by law. The 11th and 13th to take away the weapon if someone does something and the weapon is taken away if they don't commit a crime. What do you need confirmation for? If he's going to register a weapon, if he's got the weapon, then the man's fine. Why go to pay a tax of 600 or 800 dinars to get confirmation where it's clear as soon as he comes to replace the gun sheet that the man is clean. It's all something that shouldn't have worked out and made this whole process complicated and what should have, and that can be done quickly by changing the Rules of Procedure by the time the law comes on the agenda and by the time the law changes, which we all know is a far more complex procedure. One thing I have to say here, to defend a hunting organization from something that apparently my colleagues didn't know, several colleagues mentioned it, and that's not true, but it was also done by individual police administrations in Serbia, which is why fellow MPs have been led astray. In fact, it's not true that you have to be a member of a hunting association to replace a gun list, it's not even true that you have to be a member of a hunting club to be a hunter. A hunter doesn't have to join any hunting associations. He can pass a hunting test, finish training for the weapons he has, buy a hunting ticket based on those two documents from the state and go hunting where he's invited to some hunting ground where in a commercial arrangement he can hunt. He doesn't have to be a member of a hunting club to be a hunter. Therefore, some police administrations have asked for confirmation that you are a member of a hunting association so that you can enter the process of replacing the gun list for hunting weapons, which is completely pointless. But since you don't pay taxes on that weapon, then you need to bring some kind of proof that you're a hunter, which is either a hunting card or a conviction about a passed driver's test. So this has nothing to do with paying for membership in, I don't know the hunting association nine or 15 thousand dinars that was never an obligation, but unfortunately, I'm saying there were police stations who were looking for it and were making a mistake, and it didn't say anything. Now take a look and see that it doesn't say anything. I'd like to finish by saying one more thing, again, to say that these Articles 11 and 13 in law are problematic. Their application, which is also related to the CAP by their application of which there is a discretionary law of the police without the court's decision to confiscate weapons, property, a man commits a traffic violation, so his car is not being taken away. Property is property. So, it has to be solved in another way and it has to go through court, and the judicial authority is the one that can decide. So, the police about it in the next period shouldn't be left with that possibility, because as I just said, there's a possibility of manipulation with that kind of right, discretionary in cops, and even to lead to abuse, which we don't want as a society to happen. They repeat once again that the SNS parliamentary club will support this in voting day, and I am glad to see that other parliamentary clubs will do so and that the entire Assembly will side with Serbian citizens who need help to get this job done in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73212	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about two members of the draft decision that one deadline that was on the date of March 5, 2020 is being extended to March 5, 2022, and this is exactly what my colleagues were saying before me, it's a license to own and carry guns and a gun list. What happened before this debate, which is very important for the public to know, is that this process took place in the past period so far that 150 thousand citizens have registered, that is, done this job that was envisaged by law, that is, a new decision, which is that they regulated the permit to carry arms and regulated the armed list. It cost them an average of 10,000 dinars, because there is a need to pay taxes, there is a need to pay the costs, it is necessary to pay a doctor's checkup and all taxing as repeatedly said here, it is an average of 10,000 dinars, it is a billion and 500 million dinars so far. There is a difference of up to 450,000 people who own weapons on record and should do this in the next period. One third of it has been done here and one clear question is raised here, except for the prolonging of this deadline, when it has to be done in accordance with the law, here it is thought of how and in what way to reduce these costs or how to unify this rule that is said here to be a unique and unique interpretation of this rule, and it implies exactly what I said. This involves cutting costs and seeing what an absurd situation this is. So 150 thousand citizens paid on the basis of the cost and cost of the costs so far, and now we're going to consider the next period for these 300,000 citizens to see how to reduce these costs. Isn't that a little too much? What these people are going to think, these 150 grand who, on time, did everything in accordance with the law. If the costs are reduced, then they're cheated. In order not to be deceived, the state must find a solution, no, in a way to apologize through the Assembly or through the Government, but to return to them certain funds that are greater than they will possibly in future pay for which we are now discussing, these 300,000. That's almost impossible. He's not coming back to the pensioners, and he's not coming back to these. And when the state returns, it's a rich generation and generations that can't wait. Why did this happen? Because in principle the decisions of a law that is in itself unspeakable and inaccurate are implemented. Undetermined just for a number of reasons. One of the main reasons is that there are great powers of the M.O.P. Here, on the case of a hunter's association to show all the problems in Serbia, there are about 70,000 as far as I know, here was Shormaz in two terms the president, about 70,000 registered hunters. (Dear Shormaz: around 75,000.) Here, about 75,000, to accept this throw, correct the numbers, but this is about 450,000 people. Only one small part is hunters. The absurdity of absurdities is that all those who regularly count on both hunters and people who, for official or other justified reasons, have to own weapons. Criminals are the most privileged by passing laws like this. Why? Because it's left to interpret those individuals who are employed in the MUP, and they've literally made one network that has a task, not only earns money, and that money flows a good part into private pockets, and when it comes to private pockets, it's a confirmation that you're qualified to handle weapons. That's what you get in the shooters. The shooters believed it or not, the highest number of gunmen was shot by ex-cops. As former high-ranking police officers determine who and how they will receive confirmation that he is trained to provide security services, so there is one lobby here. That's why this is a free interpretation from the secretariats, to the secretariats within Serbia. But there is something even weirder, and that is, when it comes to this confirmation, that is, the medical belief of the person's ability and responsibility when it comes to carrying and holding weapons. The medical examination could initially take place in any hospital general practice. Now someone came up and said there are certain centers where only a medical examination can be performed. So let's say, for Raska it's the King's, and the idea of the one from Novi Pazar who's supposed to go to the King to do a doctor's examination, it's 130 kilometers, that doctor's examination to pay and then the additional cost of the trip, possibly the cost of staying in the King's office, when you include it, obviously there was an intention to interpret and adopt these regulations. Someone said it was presented to the health ministry that the minister was surprised at what he signed. It's a real picture, it's something that's real in this Serbia. The minister was surprised what he signed. He says, on a daily or monthly basis, he signs a bunch of those decisions, and this is one decision he's completely signed, he hasn't even looked at. You can't believe someone from the Ministry can explain it or explain it. Well, I guess there's this service that needs to do that. Well, although the minister signed it, it turns out he's been duped in some way, that he's done conscious or unconscious damage to Serbian citizens. Well, the minister should initiate disciplinary proceedings against his associates. All of this involves a certain procedure and a certain procedure. However, when it comes to profit, it is here that we understand 450,000 citizens, according to official data, times 10,000, that is 4.5 billion, that is 40m euros. Fortym euros is a large capital and amount of money for the developed country in the West, not for Serbia. And when you see what interests are all involved, then you'll understand. We have something that is incomprehensible, incomprehensible, with a number of long pipes or people who have long pipes, commands or decides former Ambassador Montgomery, than it is in the situation of the Interior Minister or Commander General Staff or I am commander-in-chief. No one can believe that, but Montgomery still holds the monopoly when it comes to security services and cases as they say, and nobody says enough is enough, we're going to reregister it, now we're going to do it in another way, not to talk about former generals, senior police officers dealing with, literally, trade with former police officers or former Serbian Army officers. So it's a series of problems that arise, not just about this decision, but about the complete functioning of this system.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73214	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73215	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the promoter, my smallties, Mr Komlenski, Mr. Torbica and all those who supported this proposal, thank the government of the Republic of Serbia who put this on the agenda. I am obliged and I am obliged to say that the initiative to pass this law has been launched by the Hunting Chamber of Serbia, remember, the Hunting Chamber of Serbia, and I would like to thank Mr. Djordjevic, who has warned my littleness and the other two proposings that if we do not extend the deadline for the replacement of armed papers, in which case our citizens may enter serious problems. The remarks we heard were probably established. I am the owner of the arms, but I am not an expert in the Law on Weapons in the EU, in other countries, so unless our citizens get a deadline that they have to comply with, there is always a chance that the laws will be corrected in those parts of which colleagues have warned, and colleagues from opposition parties, as well as Mr Shormaz from the biggest party I particularly want to thank, because without it, I would probably not get this kind of support on the agenda. But I am obliged to say that opposition parties have made a significant contribution to this law in a certain way and that it is a technical change that will allow citizens to gain a chance to legalise weapons, and also to get a chance to influence the future, the laws are not a sacred letter, to improve in those parts that they think will be far better than the present parts. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to mention Swiss pensions that are more significant than this subject, but why did I mention Switzerland? Switzerland has one good model for me, that all people under 40 are military bonds, whether active, whether spare. All of them because of the rapid mobilization and because of that first hit from 48 to 24 hours, in two groups they're classified, they have a two-packed weapons house. So, we can learn something from a small country, from Swiss people who made their weapons laws in the sense that it is also related to military bonds, or to reservers and say – Switzerland has no army, Switzerland is an army. Also, let's not think Serbs are the most armed people. There are three countries in Europe, Europe has 80 million weapons. There are a billion pieces of weapons in the world, of which 857 are in the hands of civilians. The Americans themselves have over 350 million pieces of weapons and say that a well-armed people are a kind people, because with us certain criminal circles know that a minority of our citizens own weapons, and especially for carrying weapons, a very small number has a license. So they feel more free to commit crimes and therefore some criticism of existing laws may stand. It is for some fundamental public debate, and if it is decided that this law is being rewritten, I will certainly be one of those who will make such a big contribution. Anyway, I want to thank all my colleagues from the ruling largest party, from opposition parties, again to underline the initiative of the Hunting Chamber of Serbia, Mr Komlenski, Mr Torbica, and I hope that this law will be passed on Wednesday and that we will honour the deadline of March 5th and that the deadline will be extended for the replacement of the armed papers by 2022. That's the essence of what we've been dealing with in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-03-02-0.u73216	Thank you. Since no longer registered for word, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the principled search of the bill. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10:00.
