ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u6	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 103 regarding Article 107. I am speaking formally to you because you are still chairing this session which, without any explanation, was interrupted 80 days ago. So, for 80 days this council has been destroying the dignity of this Parliament and this congregation is destroying the dignity of the citizens that we represent here. A calling in which you have an absolute majority. In this country, it has become inconceivable to do something systemically, to do something without pomp and without some kind of scandal. It's been 123 days since the election to this day. We could have done a lot of work here in the meantime. Among other things, we could form a committee of inquiry as parliament to determine the responsibility for the failures that led to the loss of life and endangering the health of citizens. We have not yet determined responsibility for the mistakes that occurred in the first and second waves of the Coronal virus, and we have already entered without parliament in this third announced wave. We could only, but you wouldn't allow it. I remind you that the cities of Sandzak were on the greatest attack by the Coronal virus and that the health system was in catastrophic condition. In all this time, we could find those responsible, punish those responsible, and welcome that third wave. What's the problem? Why, then, did you not allow the proposal, which we gave to Alexander Vukic as a parliamentary party, to hold elections on September 6th, at the earliest of September 6th, and afterwards to form a government? Because of this irresponsible approach, you've put the citizens in danger. Were elections more important than citizens' lives? No, they were more important obviously results, and the election we can see that we haven't carried out the results yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u7	Your Honor, you've exceeded speech time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u8	The congregation’s majority too exceeded time in forming the Assembly and Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u9	I have not violated the provisions of Articles 103 and 107. The Rules of Procedure are governed by law in everything, and the Assembly is governed by the law and by the Rules of Procedure. Do the esteemed MPs want to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u10	The Honorable Chairman, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I will immediately tell you at the beginning, I am not asking that the National Assembly in the voting day be made known about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Please lead this session by protecting the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The need for someone to start an important and extremely important session, not only for parliament, parliamentaryism, but for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, because this is a session concerning the future of Serbia and the future of each Serbian citizen, has the need to say something to present certain political qualifications, please do not allow it in the future. The abuse of an epidemiological situation, then some irresponsibility, and then some scandal, even though the results of Corona are visible, even though we had a chance to talk here in parliament. If you had a need to say anything, then you should have done it then, not have a later mind today. He's not late, and you know it very well, and you should have paid attention to the previous speaker on the deadlines for forming a government. So, the government will be formed before clear law and the Constitution of defined deadlines. So, the need for public presence is visible, but don't let someone try to profit politically in this way and be politically present, let's get back to the agenda, I think there's an extremely important day ahead, a day important for parliamentaryism, but I repeat, important for Serbia's future and for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u11	Thank you. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received one proposal from the National Assembly president. The proposal has been delivered to you. As you have seen, National MP Ivica Dacic, selected from the Ivica Dacic Electoral List – the Socialist Party of Serbia, Unique Serbia - Dragan Markovic Palma, was proposed for the president of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 9, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposing representative, can explain the proposal. Does the proposing representative want to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly President? National MP Djordje Milicevic will explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u12	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to congratulate you on your election first and I would like to congratulate my fellow SNS for the absolute victory in the parliamentary elections. At the very beginning of this session and the continuation of the First Constitutional Session, I would like to wish all of us success in an extremely important and important, I would say, joint business. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, takes place in elections, not in the street, but in the elections. Parliamentary democracy means a multilateral system. Citizens had a clear opportunity to say in parliamentary elections what they think of political parties, what they think of political parties' programmes. More than 20, correct me if I am wrong, the coalition and political parties have participated in parliamentary elections, and in responsible and serious political options it is always to accept the clearly democratically expressed will of the citizens, no matter how much the will of the citizens at a certain point may not have been liked. I want to believe that these gigs, and that's what I want to say at the beginning of today's session, these gigs that we all use mostly at the beginning of the discussion -- respected, respected, not only to be used as a reflection, I would say false respect for each other, but that the period ahead of us will be period and patience, mutual tolerance, respect, respect and patience. It depends not only on the power of desire, it won't depend on the future president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it won't depend on the leadership of the National Assembly that we choose together today, I mean the vice president and the secretaries, it will depend on all of us. So all 250 MPs are responsible for the functioning or failure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens expect us to have a responsible and serious relationship. I believe we won't have the situation we've had, I hate to go back in time, and I always want to look into the future, but I have to mention that I don't want to believe that we're going to have the situation that we had in the previous session. So that because of some alleged boycott of parliament, and the cause of the boycott is the inability to democratically face opinions and democratic debate. We don't have one part of the parliamentary groups, of course, that's not the reason, no one in this parliament in the previous term, and also in the 2012 co-operations until today did not want to prevent democratic confrontation and opinions, and democratic debate. But the bottom line is that someone is politically anemic enough, so that through this kind of debate he can't show his strength. That, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is the Honorable Chairman of classical impotence. So this isn't about force, it's about force of argument. We have so many times, during the previous assembly, spoken as a parliamentary club about the fact that the MP is not as strong as he is physically strong and as loud as he can speak or beat about MP benches. Only primitive people who have no arguments do that. The MP is as strong as his arguments are. I repeat, not force of force, but force of argument. Parliament is the voice of the people, a place where we, the legitimately elected representatives of citizens, are discussing alternatives to how we can come up with the most qualitative solutions that will be in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia. The key word in all this, I think it's polite. Competence means that first of all, we throw out everything that is negative in order to have normal communication, so that we have normal dialogue in parliament. But also, courtesy means being honest, honest and responsible to do the job for which citizens have given us mandate and legitimacy, to carry it out responsibly, seriously, but also to bear responsibility for what has been said. So, courtesy, but also respect the principle of responsibility. I think the ruling coalition from 2012 to today has made a major step in parliamentary democracy, because by that year 2012, you know, in Serbia, everyone was guilty of something, and no one was responsible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, it is an honor and privilege for me to be present today as a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, of course, with great gratitude to all of you, because if it were not for your signatures, I would not be able to be present today as a representative of the proposings, above all to colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, colleagues from the United Pensioners of Serbia, our pre-election coalition partners from the Single Serbia, SDPS, minorities, colleagues from the Serbian Patriotic Union, I am able to talk about the proposal for a candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say immediately why I gave special thanks to my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party. It's not here, ladies and gentlemen, it's about mathematics and numbers, and we're not talking about someone needing a number of MPs to form a parliamentary majority and to form the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it's also SNS can do so without coalition partners. I would not, as some try to do so in public, simplify the talks that the president of the Republic and the president of the SNS conducted with parliamentary parties in Serbia, because these are talks that do not concern who has some kind of affinities and who will lead the resolution, it is not a list of good wishes. These are talks concerning Serbia's future and these are talks concerning the future of each Serbian citizen. As far as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is concerned, Mr Markovic will speak, but I hope he will not be angry, because our position was exactly the same on this issue, we said immediately after the election that we were proud of everything we did together with the Serbian Progressive Party and our coalition partners in the previous time period. When I say proud, above all, I think of a strengthened and strengthened international reputation for Serbia, everything we have worked on on the national, state, economic and political plan, and that we believe that this is one good basis for continuing co-operation and that we want to make our contribution as a pre-election coalition to the preservation of political stability confirmed in the parliamentary elections, but also to national and state unity, bearing above all the challenges and difficulties Serbia will face during the period ahead. There was never a single problem in coalition relations. Those key issues, national, state, political and economic, were resolved by consensus. So this is about the conviction and regularity of the ideas that we believe in, which we stand for together and the goals that we want to achieve together. Let me go back to what is crucial today, which is the explanation of the proposal for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic. For the first time in recent history, I would like someone to correct me if I am wrong, but for the first time in recent history in Serbia's political scene, the president of a political party, a political party that has been on the political scene of Serbia for 30 years and for these 30 years is a relevant political factor, is a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A man who has a long-standing political, long-standing parliamentary experience, and it is not an accident that he tells us very often not to talk about it, and I know that after this speech I will suffer criticism from him, but I am going to say it today, it is no accident that he graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences with an average score of 10 as the best student and who is reluctant to talk about it, because it is just a confirmation that everything he knows and knows wants to put into the service of his citizens and his country. Since the beginning of his career, he has performed important party functions, but also significant functions in the legislative and executive government of the Republic of Serbia. He was an MP, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but I mean 30 years of parliamentary life? (Ivica Dacic: 28.) So, 28 years. First an MP to the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then an MP to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and then an MP to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where he also led some of the key and significant resolutions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He was Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Interior Minister and Foreign Minister. All his duties were performed successfully, leaving traces of his work. In all the sectors he managed, he left significant clues, significant results, both in the organisation and creation of quality legal frameworks and in the contribution of these sectors, especially when we talk about Serbia's progress. As interior minister, he implemented significant reforms and improved the position of police, established the Emergency Sector. Serbian diplomacy led by Ivica Dacic, with the huge support and co-ordination of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, as well as the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, has narrowed down the attempts of those who wanted to resolve the issue of the southern Serbian province without Serbia and the diplomatic flows to return Serbia to its place of objectively belonging to it. Eighteen countries withdrew the decision to accept independence, so-called independence. Kosovo. Today, I repeat, an international reputation and an international image of Serbia has been strengthened and strengthened. This is not only coming from itself, it takes great work, effort, commitment and energy as both the president of Serbia and the foreign minister then and the first Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, but I repeat the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the moment he is elected, and I have no doubt, for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he will continue to deal with parliamentary diplomacy, which is also of great importance and great importance to Serbia. A huge state and political experience, commitment, patriotism, tolerance, communicability that is characterized by Ivica Dacic, I believe that they are guaranteed that the role of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also be successful in favour of Serbia and in the interests of Serbian citizens. I am fully convinced that the parliament headed by Ivica Dacic, the leadership, I think of the vice-presidents we choose, the secretary we choose today, will manage to answer in the best possible way the questions raised before parliament as the highest body of the legislative authority and will work in the best interests of citizens. I am fully convinced that parliament will be a symbol of democracy, efficiency, transparency and the public in the work. I have to say something I didn't want to talk about today, but I see it's a public topic, so just for the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I have to do a few sentences. I hope you don't mind. I see the need for certain, call on the political options, that the moment when the president of Serbia and the president of the SNS announced that the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be Mr. Ivica Dacic, I see the need for certain calls for opposition political parties to degrade and minimise the role of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Not only do they minimise his role, but they minimize the role of all of us, I repeat, the legitimacy and mandate to do one responsible and serious job in the interests of the citizens. This can, you know, only political diletaries who do not understand the formal importance and role of Parliament's president, as well as that he is an actor in several topics set as priorities. These are the same ones, I will remind you, who have wanted to come to power and privilege without a choice, those who all the time call for some change of electoral conditions, although these electoral conditions, you know very well, haven't changed since 2008, are calling for a change of electoral conditions, election rules, and of all that, they are making a farce, distracting the public, because they know very well that they have only had one way out of this unexplainable political situation at that time, and that is a desperate and losing path – a boycott of choice, which has failed. It's the ones who said or asked, when we had an inter-party dialogue, when we talked at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and as much as they're willing to have a dialogue at all, it's the ones who said -- or 42 demands or boycott. This is not the way to talk to someone and to have a dialogue if you want to come up with a compromise solution, which is what the ruling coalition was up to at that time. Those who realized that they did not need to participate in the talks and inter-party dialogue because it was enough to meet with their friends in hotel lobbys, it was far more important than what we all worked together in the hall, discussed in the system institutions, about election conditions, about all issues concerning the elections and were ready and showed willingness to change everything we believe can improve electoral conditions in Serbia. Those who did not realize that the reduction of censorship from 5% to 3% is actually because of them, because that 5% was unattainable for them, and we with those 3% wanted to actually revive parliamentary life, bring life back to parliament, lead dialogue and politics in parliament, and not on the street, and have a more representative public opinion here in parliament. Unfortunately, those 3% were also untouchable and inaccessible to them. You know how, they always talk about the elections when the elections go through, and when the president of the Republic and the president of the SNS says, we will arm the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we will have the 2022 elections, they ask the question – and why, why? So wait, make a deal with yourself. This reminds me of the period when they decided to boycott parliament and when they all had only one single position, which is to call an early parliamentary election. When they realized not that they couldn't represent an alternative ruling coalition, but to ask whether they could survive politically, they moved on to other political flossules and other political formulations. But if I don't talk too much about them today, I'm gonna go back on the subject and go back to what we're here for today. Once again, I want to thank all of you for the support you have provided with your signature candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic. I believe in voting day you'll confirm that. I believe that in this House we can establish a normal dialogue, normal communication, in the best interests of Serbian citizens. I believe in Serbia's future, and I believe in those goals defined by the President of the Republic, and also by the President of the National Assembly, together with all of us, we are here to help realise these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u13	We have a brief announcement. The parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" has been appointed MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, and as his deputy MP, Vladimir Orlic, is being changed and the MP is being appointed by Sandra Bozic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 56(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 9(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a hearing on the proposal of the National Assembly President. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I'm asking Mr. Dragan Markovic to come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u14	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the mandates, to congratulate, above all, on the result achieved by the ruling majority in recent years, i.e. from 2012 to 2020. At first, I would like to talk about the proposed candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I can tell you that our coalition of the SPS-United Serbia was honored by this act that the President of the Republic and the President of the largest parliamentary party, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, proposed Ivica Dacic as Parliament's president. Given that Aleksandar Vukic, a great perfectionist in a positive sense, and after so many years of co-operation, suggested Ivica Dacic, as another man in this country, that means that Ivica Dacic justified everything called co-operation between Alexander Vukic and Mr. Ivica Dacic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, a lot of things I wanted to say was Mr. Djordje Milicevic, but I can't say that in 2008, it was the year that Ivica Dacic was SPS-JS, we decided to make a pro-European government, and to save Serbia from further collapse, and we were not wrong, a large number of investors were then coming and opening factories in Serbia, but it was particularly a success when we made the SNS 2012 coalition on political co-operation. That such a coalition on the political scene lasts eight years is a rare political history since the multi-party system exists in Serbia, I mean the SPS-JS and SNS coalition. When it comes to today's candidate for Parliament's president, he has a huge score and it has been very difficult for him to visit so many countries, he has visited certain countries that Serbian citizens first heard exist, and that these countries, they say -- here, we will withdraw recognition of KIM independence. Together with President Vukic, they managed to reduce, that Kosovo Albanians no longer have a majority in institutions where they decide on the fate of Serbian and Serbian citizens. What I can freely say is, the biggest victory, that the Kosovo Albanians lost when they asked that, I'm not going to say so. Kosovo. Because, let me tell you, it bothers me when someone says so. Kosovo, so-called Independent Kosovo, not so-called Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and to use a term that belongs to us as politicians and to tell you that they, then, the Kosovo Albanians, lost when they applied to enter Interpol. It is known what would happen to Serbs at KIM and to bring it back to Serbia, I don't know how many years. You know that in international relations you don't know the international law given by certain acts, there is respect for most of the votes, put on a vote, and we, because we didn't have, here, Dule worries whether he'll be the director, you'll be Dule, you'll be, you've done well, I guarantee you. You don't have to applaud for Dulett, but we have been heating since Dule Director of "Serbiagas", we have been heating dishes since 2008. Thank you, Mr. Dole. So that the candidate today, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivica Dacic will be the real representative of the Serbian parliament and he has the greatest experience. I said the other day, he still has to be president of the assembly and president of Serbia. Both he and I agreed that the president of Serbia should also be in the next period of time, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and we should help him. To help him in the way we've helped him so far. You know that I was offered ministerial functions and Aleksandar Vukic offered me Mr Tadic, but I wanted to show that I didn't need a chair and that I didn't need a minister's position to do something good for Serbia. I have visited many countries, and every time I went to a country, I informed Serbian President Alexander Vukic and, of course, my coalition partner and foreign minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. This parliament will differ from other parliaments, i.e. from other calls. Why? The people, ladies and gentlemen, have chosen the right representatives. We can't tell what a media blockade was like, how those others couldn't get into parliament because of the media blockade. Well, there's something called social media. Please, let's do a survey of how many people from 18 to 35 are watching TV and reading the newspaper. Less than five percent, and these others ran the campaign through social networks, I mean the opposition, and they wrote everything and everything, and they didn't have the opportunity to trust them to get into parliament. I am terribly angry with Alexander Vukic, why in the second part of the election campaign he allowed those who did not go to the elections not to wear, to verify the notary, the signed person who casts his vote for the party's candidacy, and we had to go to the notary. You who are sitting here, at the notaries and waiting for order at the notaries and that people may lose in smaller cities where there is one notary or two notes with 100,000 inhabitants, it takes five hours to lose waiting in line a man to give consent, or his signature for a party and so on. And that was a little bit. But as a man from the economy, for many years and I can say I know little and that media business, journalistically, why they left parliament in the election campaign and before the elections if the other RTS programme conveys everything that MPs say in this House. So I don't regret them very much. Serbian citizens have given confidence to those who believe, and George also said that I am not angry, I could not understand why, perhaps because you took part in the topic I wanted to talk about, but of course I'm not angry. Why do they say emergency elections in a year and a half? Well, people, for the first time I've heard the opposition doesn't want elections. For a year and a half, you have time to campaign from door to door, from house to house, through social networks, and I guess it's good for citizens to assess the work of the current majority. No, he says, maybe we'll boycott again and so forth. I have to, from time to time, go back to Hansel, because I don't write speeches and maybe I'm the only politician who doesn't write speeches and I'm not getting ready for sessions. Yesterday, I had some delegations, and I didn't think at all about the agenda points, not today's point, not the future time period, I'm always talking out of common sense, and based on the experience I have, but, when I was Minister of Police Ivica Dacic, since then, it was the first time that workers who seek their rights on the street have ever been beaten, sometimes by someone with the right, an organization, and we know how it was until 2008, or during the time he was a police minister, and not only during his time as police minister, during his role as foreign minister. Putin acknowledged Ivica Dacic for good friendly co-operation between the Serbian and Russian people. It's not a little confession. He said he shares this recognition with the citizens of Serbia, and it is obvious that those who evaluate it, named Vladimir Putin, is difficult and rarely when they can make a mistake. You know that Serbian representatives could hardly have had contact with the Pope and the Holy See, and when Ivica Dacic had a reception at the Pope's, he sat next to the Holy Table, that is, next to the Pope. You know, to put one former communist, current Socialist, next to her sitting, it's obviously some big confession he gave not only to Ivica Dacic but also to the Serbian people and to all those living in Serbia. What is the advantage and value of the Dacic edge? Because everything he said where he was deciding on the fate of the Serbian people, he also spoke in Serbia, especially when there was a session at the Security Council. You know exactly what terms he used, a lady out there who attacked Serbia and the Serbian people, and for the first time, the citizens heard what we used when there was a great injustice, and you know what, that I'm not repeating it today, and that he represented Serbia at a very high level. He's a signer of the Brussels Agreement. What does that mean? This means that what he signed, along with Alexander Wolfich, is also wanted to be realized. But we must acknowledge the work of both the president of Serbia and the foreign minister for everything that has happened in the last period of time. It is a lie that Germany will now withdraw recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that Makron, President of France, etc., regardless of what Makron loves Serbia and while in Serbia you know that his hand was on his heart, etc., but on his return to Paris, the story remained the same. It is not fake that Angela Merkel told her entrepreneurs, owners of large companies – go to Serbia, invest, there is security and security of capital there. Today, 60 and some thousands of Serbian citizens work in these German factories. And not only in German factories, but also in other factories. Ivica Dacic differed from other foreign ministers who, when traveling somewhere, slept in expensive hotels and not telling you what money it was, you know that much better than me, you did that statistic, and Ivica Dacic is a modest man. He's been at sea five times in the past 12 years, and that's what I took him to Greece, where it's cheapest, in Paralia, where everyone eats giros and Ivica and I eat giros with people. Until he became foreign minister he had one pair of pants, let me just tell you, that's two pairs - one of those electricians that they wear and they put a screwdriver in their pocket and then there was a review of his advisors and they said, "Hey, man, you don't represent yourself, and we barely made him buy three suits." That's true. His children are humble, family. A real representative of the Serb host. So thank Alexander Vukic for making such a decision to make Ivica Dacic president of the Serbian parliament. What else is important? It is important that we use these contacts, and friendly relations with some major countries, and also with African-Arab states, because there, in Africa, it does not matter what the state is called, but it is worth the vote when it is raised in institutions where it is voted for Serbia, and that it uses, along with Serbian President Aleksandra Vukic, that position he once had and that friendship. They laughed at Hansel Dacic, they say – you see, he sings. Guys, I'd love to know how to sing, but I don't know. When a guest comes to you, and I have arranged many dinners, 15 foreign investors have opened factories in Jagodina, of 15 of them 10 when they come and say – we will not, I only convince them to spend the night with me and they are mine and God's. And to tell you the truth, I have repeatedly abused Hansel Dacic to come, sing, talk to these people. When we go on the campaign, he's the only politician who's risky of the crown, not to pass it on to others, and in fact I got the crown and he didn't. He makes out with everyone when we go out, when we go in, and we're always late. We're not late for getting up late, we're late for being loved by the people. When I'm at the crown, it's also the merit of this government, that we're surrounded by a state that has the smallest number of infected. I had a crown and it lasted 40 minutes, as did my wife and my son. How's 40 minutes? By having a fever for 40 minutes. After that, nothing. And I didn't go public, because I'm not about politicians having double immunity, having that immunity called passport and health immunity. I can tell you that I'm glad I've been lying on the crown, but we need to see how to scare the people less, because if it goes on like this every day, every day for five hours on all televisions to talk about – Pera, Mika, Zika died, in the morning when you get up first you touch a woman by the forehead, if you have a wife, or a woman touching you for your forehead, children, grandchildren, etc. Psychologically, we'll have at least 30% problem with the citizens. It only takes once, five minutes. The other day, I was watching a conference of some doctors, an hour and 45 minutes. Thank them, I have nothing against them, but an hour and 45 minutes! I guarantee you that now my mother, who was born in 1938, can tell you about the crown for half an hour. The message is we're wearing masks, but life has to go on, people. And in economic terms, if we continue to do so now, then the citizens of Serbia are afraid, they are not going to work because they might get a crown and so on. Speaking of crowns, let me tell you that in Jagodina, 36 days no one has been infected. There are other cities in Serbia, of course, where there are no crowns. The profession is right when it says – it is necessary to avoid large gatherings, it is true. So, to avoid big gatherings, to wear masks, but kids have to go to high school. I've got five students in the house, one week they're going to school, the next week they're not going. Wait, guys, what online? We all went to school. I loved it most when the wood came to carry wood and to lose two hours, and so did you who sat here. Now the kids say for the first time – we want to go to schools. If 98% of parents say – I want my child to go to school, so my parents are the most responsible for their child and if we don't have a large occurrence of the Corona virus that children go to school every day. How do they go to kindergarten? How do they go to elementary school, and I can't go to high school, someone wants to explain it to me? Of course no one can explain it to me. So I'm not saying this as a politician. I have twelve family members. We all live in one house. I have five grandchildren and I know what emotions are, I know what reality is. And so each of us says - young to inherit us etc. Well, who's going to inherit us if those two years and how are they said to be this crown and in the next period of time, that we're going to enter into 2021? They will continue to lose for two years. Not getting into what kids are used to going on a field trip, etc., come on, we forbid it, but to go to school, they have to go to school. It's kind of my appeal, too, not abuse of this subject, because if you were just talking about Hansel Dacic...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u15	Time. I'm asking you to be in the frames. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u16	I'm done. Let me just have one more sentence, two sentences, three, four, five, because this is the topic where there's a little 20 minutes. We should have voted to be twice in 20 minutes and not only for the election of the President of the Assembly, but also for the government's election, etc. Let me just say a few words about the government and I'm done. The government had good continuity and good results and should continue in that direction. We will also support what President Aleksandar Vukic is doing and what, of course, is called Parliament Speaker, that we regularly attend meetings, that we do not look like "they". Look, there are 230 deputies here now who receive salaries, you have to come to work, gentlemen, it's your job. To work, everyone who gets paid in Parliament, every day at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u17	There's a word from the MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u18	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the United Valley and SDA Sandzak parliamentary group, I declare against the candidacy of the proposed candidate for National Assembly president. First of all, no one has consulted us about the proposed candidate, or the new government that we are talking about and whose formation we learn more from the means of information. This is one of the practical reasons why we won't. The political reason why we will not vote for the proposed candidate is that it belonged to a political elite that has caused bloody wars on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, whose consequences we are seeing today, especially regarding minorities who remain in an unfavourable position in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Ivica Dacic has often voiced hatred for members of different minorities during his political career, and recently the fact that in public, even in TV performances, he is calling for the cover-up of crimes committed on Kosovo Albanians and the denial of crimes committed there. He also calls for the non-disclosure of any mass graves that exist in Serbia and therefore will not get our vote. As interior minister, while running the portfolio, it is known that an initiative on eradicating, i.e. the passiveisation of citizens' residences was launched, directly affecting the municipalities of Presevo Valley, Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje and Sandzak municipalities, a reduction in population numbers and a direct impact on the population structure, i.e. the demographic structure of the population of these municipalities. It is said that Mr. Ivica Dacic will be the president of the Serbian parliament. From what you can see here, there are others here. According to the fact, parliament's president should express the unity of MPs and parliamentary groups. If someone declares that they belong only to a particular nation, then it does not represent the unity of parliament and therefore will not get our vote. Just to relate to something that has already been said before, which is celebrated as a success, the impeachment to the recognition of the "republic of Kosovo", you can assess it however you want, I will only quote a foreign diplomat who says it is "a shooting at his feet". So, for the reasons I have presented, our parliamentary group will vote against the election of the proposed candidate. Thank you. (Ivica Dacic: I'm reporting for word.) ) (Jordje Milicevic: I answer the word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u19	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u20	Small technical complications, but Mr Dacic has, as the system has shown, a duplicate of the card, since until the technical service solves the problem, let me, as a representative of the proposings, have the right to report to the presentation of a short-time colleague who said the reasons why the parliamentary group, to whom I belong, will not vote for Mr Dacic as president, candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's his legitimate right, but allow me, my legitimate right is to disagree with the reasons he was talking about. He spoke of political reasons, because minorities are in an unfavourable position. If minorities in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were in an unfavourable position, he would not speak like this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. Could Serbs as minorities speak in any parliament in the region? We've seen examples of how they pass when they speak and when they have critical views, but we're not going to act like one. We treat minorities as we did in the preceding period. Our goal is peace, stability, prosperity, agreement, co-operation. I'm sorry my colleague didn't realize that. But what's sad is when you don't have any arguments, then you call on the past and call on some kind of adage of the past. Dear colleague, in the past and in the past, you don't live. There are lessons learned from the past and things that are good are affirmed. I'm sorry you stayed in the past, because if you stay in the past, you won't have a present, you won't have a future, but that's your business. It's up to us to look into the future. What was Mr Dacic specifically and personally involved in so that you would qualify him in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, in front of the citizens of Serbia and in front of the Serbian Parliament? I will tell you, without being rude, to say the least: hypocritical. Whether someone invited you to talk, whether you're angry or not, so don't talk to Mr. Dacic and don't talk to us. Did Mr. Dacic speak frighteningly of crimes against Kosovo Albanians? No, never. Mr. Dacic has always advocated the truth, and the truth must always be the basis for finding a compromise solution. Mr. Dacic is the one who signed the Brussels Agreement. Mr Dacic is the one who has brought dialogue, dialogue, which would lead to a compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides. You call for unity in parliament, I don't mind. We're always as strong as we are unique. But as much as my memory serves, you belong to the Sulaiman Ugljanin MP group. Am I wrong? Am I wrong? Am I wrong? You don't belong to a parliamentary group where Suleiman Ugljanin's MPs are? Do you belong to the MP group where Suleiman Ugljanin's MPs are? My question is very specific. Chairman, can you answer me if a colleague who spoke a little bit belongs to an MP group belonging to Sulejman Ugljanin's MPs? Can I get an answer to that question so I can continue the discussion, because I have the right as a proposing representative? Branko, can you answer that question for me? Does a colleague who spoke for a few minutes belong to a group of MPs who belong to Suleiman Ugljanin? Is it so hard to get an answer to the question? Tell me, what is the name of the parliamentary group on which the gentleman called himself, what is the name of the parliamentary group, which political parties belong to that parliamentary group? Simple and simple. Give me an answer to the question. I didn't ask you anything illogical. I'm just asking, so I can keep talking, because speaking of disunity and minorities, I have something to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u21	Sir, I beg you, you belong...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u22	I know who I belong to, my president is here, and there's my pre-election coalition partner. I'm in safe hands. But I'm asking who the fellow who spoke for a moment, what MP's group, so I can continue my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u23	A colleague belongs to the United Valley of SDA Sandzak.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u24	Branko, please answer my question. (Branko Marinkovic: Although I do not have the right to the Rules of Procedure, the MP belongs to the United Valley of SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. So, SDA Sandzak? So, Suleiman Ugljanin, right? Now, since we're talking about disunity, since we're talking about respect for minorities, and we're all talking about it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we're tolerance and culture enough to listen, then I want to continue my discussion in that direction, because I have the right to do so as a representative of the promoters. Now, to remind you, it is tragic that this Sulejman Ugljanin from 2000 to 2016 actively participated in Serbia's political life, performed significant state functions, in Serbia's political life, performing then significant state functions, and in the current assembly session, his party had parliamentary mandates, and it happened to be talking about some sort of Sandzak occupation by Serbia and seeking to resolve Sandzak's status. Am I wrong? Is that how it was in Serbia? Tell me. To remind us, Mr Ugljanin was a member of the National Assembly in several meetings of the National Assembly, the government minister, who advocated territorial integrity and state sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Am I wrong? All the time he was in charge of regional development, from 2008 to 2014, as he managed the Office for underdeveloped areas he was a member of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, he said Serbia is our country. I say today, Serbia is our country. Serbia is also a country of all of you, but don't act like this, because it's not correct and it's not in the spirit of tolerance. Today you expose your true face, forgetting that the Raska area was the heart of a medieval Serbian state. As I think one year ago, I think, Badžet Pacolli, the so-called foreign minister of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, called on the so-called Foreign Minister of Kosovo to attend the National Council of Bosniaks session and thus publicly recognise the self-proclaimed state, so now continues to violate the law and the Constitution of the Serbian state, calling on the international community not to protect Sandzak from Serbia. This way, I have nothing else to say, except that he's trying to destabilise the situation in the Raski area, inventing problems. We are aware that Mr. Ugljanin, who has never asked Sandzak a question at a time of high office in the state of Serbia. Mr. Dacic, you were the minister, correct me if I'm wrong, have the Sandzak question ever been asked? Well, you've been yelling at me for ten years, but I've never heard it in public. What you tell me in passing, I don't accept. Now, in fact, he wants media attention for gaining political points. I don't mind. We don't think it's necessary to pay too much attention to him, but we're just asking if that kind of behavior should be tolerated or finally to respond adequately, like when you show up at that press conference, so as a doctor, you're talking about masks with full rights, and that's just to be politically present. And now, after all this, you talk to me about minorities in Serbia, you talk about us, you talk about disrespect, you talk about Ivica Dacic, who scares the minorities in Serbia, who cover up some crimes, so don't please. I called you at the beginning, we can talk like this, and we can keep going, I don't mind, I don't mind, absolutely. But let's have one tolerance threshold. This Parliament has always respected and cherished minorities. This parliament has allowed, there is no secretary, there is an assistant secretary, let me correct if I am wrong, that minority representatives speak in their own language, right, Branko? We never asked that question and don't turn away from it, and don't speak ill of Serbia in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because there are us who won't allow it. We will not allow you to violate not only Serbia and Serbia in this way, but also the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the dignity and reputation of every MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u25	He has the word Enis Imamovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor. I would, before I begin to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, try to ask you to answer the question on which basis the previous speaker spoke, whether he was given a replica or as an authorised promoter, here to make it easier for you? (Jorge Milicevic: You don't have to. I'll explain it to him, since he didn't learn the Rules of Procedure. I didn't ask the messenger. I asked the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u27	The promoter answered, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u28	How? On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u29	As a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u30	So, he was getting the word "proposer." All right. So, when he was given the floor as a proposal on the agenda point that he said -- the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I guess he should have talked about the election for the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. As far as I could hear, he put out a variety of frustrations here, as well as all the factors of this regime, which are in every situation depicted by the name of Suleiman Ugljanin. Sulejman Ugljanin is not in this parliament, yet is not a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but when he is, then he will be able to talk about him. As far as constitutional principles are concerned, as regards the constitutionality of the requirements that Sulejman Ugljanin requires of this country, which is the formation of a new Autonomous province of Sandzak, this allows the Constitution of Serbia in Article 182 paragraph 3 and when Sulejman Ugljanin and his party are asking for Sandzak to be defined as a new autonomous province, and how he respects the Constitution, and how he works under the Constitution and constitutional powers, and the task of the National Assembly and People's MPs is to change and to seek an amendment to the Constitution. (President: Your Honor, time is up. I've been trying to get an answer from you, and I haven't spoken for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u31	Your Honor, would you like the National Assembly to make a statement about this? (Enis Imamovic: I wish, of course, because it is a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u32	Thank you. I answered as I was mentioned, and as a member of the People's Parliament, head of Parliament's club and candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since Mr. Kambery brought up a few qualifications that I would like to comment on, but I can't help but say that, Djordje Milicevic mentioned earlier, I just want to point it to the right side, it wasn't Sulejman Ugljanin who was just in another government, he was in a government whose I was president. It was good for you to be in the government whose president I was, then you voted for me, and now it's not good for you to vote for me for the president of the National Assembly. What's your argument? There's no argument, but it doesn't matter to me at all, and that's why I'm asking you to calm down the tones because there's no reason why we should discuss it. As for Camberi and his demands, so he declared it, he told me that I was reluctant to come to Bujanovac, and when I was interior minister, when a police officer was killed. So much for that. Did I, as interior minister, reduce the number of Albanians living there? No, we ran an action against fake residences. You know, if you have in Bear, or somewhere else, at one address of 10, 20 applications of stay, then it's about abuse. You've wasted your time, sir. Just one more sentence. That someone is saying that this is a Serbian parliament, how is it that there is no French, German, Italian, Austrian, Romanian, Hungarian parliament, Albanian parliament in the whole world, and it only bothers you when you say the Serbian parliament? This is the parliament of Serbian citizens and all political parties. Therefore, I would also ask Djorđa Milicevic not to answer the word... (Jorge Milicevic: I have to explain to him. I know all that. I've been in here for 30 years with the same people about these questions, and it doesn't make me tangled at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u33	Thank you. The word is Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u34	Thank you. The level of tolerance that is now being shown here is probably giving me the right to speak in my native language, in Albanian, but I will again be tolerated, so I will speak in a language that most understands. If denying war crimes, covering up potential mass graves isn't enough reason, then this society really has a huge problem. You're asking me to look ahead. But I don't know any society in this world that went forward until it saw its repressive past. You have to face that past so we can talk about some democracy. The time will be here by 22 April 2022 to discuss also the integration of Albanians in the Presevo Valley and Bosniaks. The reports also discuss the high commissioner and advisory committee of the Framework Convention, but also the progress report a lot, and how many Serbs in Kosovo are integrated. When it comes to tolerance, let me just point out here. There are Serbian minority ministers in Kosovo who carry out these ministerial duties, but when asked, they do not publicly recognise the state of Kosovo. Is there tolerance or is there no tolerance? So, the motive for concealing war crimes and insinuating potential mass graves of Kosovo Albanians is enough motive for us not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u35	The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u36	I have to ask the president first if I can take it? He told me not to answer. He told me to be brief, so I'm going to use my right to propose. So no one here denies the victim. I said for a moment that we advocate the truth, because truth is the only basis for finding a compromise and just solution. So much for tolerance. You are talking about the integration of Serbs, and where should Serbs integrate in the Serbian state and what kind of integration are you talking about? You're talking about some frustration, I've only realized your frustrations for one simple reason, because you can't understand that you're no longer part of the ruling coalition and that from the moment you're not part of the ruling coalition and you don't have your own president or leader or what's already in the government of the Republic of Serbia you're telling a different story. I don't have any frustration. I've never seen a man or wanted to see him, but it's very interesting to me when he speaks as president of the National Council of Bosniaks, and when he speaks as president of the SDA. I'd like to just define it and define one more thing. I am a representative of the motionary, Madam Chairman, and as a representative of the motionor, I can contact you at any time. Since the president told me that I am no longer answering this question, I will no longer answer this question, because he says I've been running this kind of controversy for a very long time and he sees that it has no end, because there is no understanding on the other hand. I fully understand that, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u37	The word has Enis Imamovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. I will now speak on the basis of the replica, as the party's name is mentioned, the party president's name in the context of his participation in the government with then-Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. There is a coalition agreement signed by Ivica Dacic, including Aleksandar Vukic, which mentions Sandzak in 13 points, the economic development of Sandzak, the decentralisation of Serbia and all aspects that need to lead to Serbia's regionalisation, and Sandzak to the status of the new autonomous province. So, the agreement was signed on 28 January 2013. It includes the signatures of Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Aleksandr Vukic and Ivica Dacic, and it concerns the participation of SDA Sandzak in the government. Since the then government had done nothing about the Agreement and the points of the Agreement signed, the SDA of Sandzak left the government and was no longer a member of that ruling majority. So very simple. Given that Djordje Milicevic may not be familiar with the details of the agreement, I will be very happy, in a collegiate spirit, to give him the Coalition Agreement in order to better educate himself on the items that his president has, and today's candidate for National Assembly President has signed - an agreement concerning the participation of SDA Sandzak as a regional minority party and whose task was to protect the interests of all Sandzak citizens, the improvement of the lives of Sandzak citizens, the decentralisation of Serbia and the definition of Sandzak as a future autonomous province in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, in this programme, SDA Sandzak and we here, SDA Sandzak MPs, have been supported by voters in the elections, and that is why we are in this House and our entire struggle in this and all future councils will concern the definition of Sandzak as a new autonomous province in accordance with the Constitution and international law of this country and all the ratified international agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, our... .
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u39	Thank you. It's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u40	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u41	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u43	The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u44	Thank you, President. On behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate all the MPs, congratulate all the political parties who have entered parliament on the good election results and what they will have representatives in this House and thus represent their constituents. I am sure that in the coming period we will work in the interests of Serbian citizens in the best possible way. We have before us a debate on the election of the president of parliament and this is a very important place in the system of the institutions of Serbia, especially in such an organ as the highest legislative body, the Serbian Parliament, because the work of the president of parliament is well directed and the work of the entire assembly and the work of the other MPs. The SDPS parliamentary group supported candidate Ivica Dacic as president of the National Assembly and we believe that he will carry out his work professionally and in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This confidence is based first of all on Mr. Dacic having an extraordinary political experience. The previous governments included the prime minister and foreign minister and interior minister. There is also a lot of time spent in parliamentary benches, so he is very familiar with the work of the Assembly, that is, the way the organisation structure of parliament works. I hope that he will primarily organise the work of the Assembly effectively, that we will have meetings where we will have a quality debate on all issues that are on the agenda, that he will allow the exchange of views, sometimes the face-to-face and that as a result of this discussion there will always be a good legal norm, some legal solutions that will regulate in the best way certain social areas in our country. What I expect under number one of the future presidents of the Assembly is not to allow it to be inappropriate to address MPs and when I talk about it, I have to look back at the previous period. It was in previous years, I may say, over the past decades of inappropriate speech in this Assembly, there was also in the previous session, we could see for ourselves, inappropriate behavior, violent behavior and in the very home and in front of parliament and some MPs who are now and not sitting in this room, in this way, presented themselves and their political parties and their constituents, who represent themselves at the end. That is why the president of the assembly must since control the debate in the tide, so that the debate does not turn into an insult to political insinuation, to sanction an adequate non-truth. Understandably, each party has its own ideas, its own ideology, but also these ideas and this programme can be expressed in an appropriate way, an adequate way without insulting political rivals. This is all for two reasons. First of all, I would like to express the position and expectations of the SDPS parliamentary group that the candidate for Parliament president will create an adequate environment in which we will work. Secondly, I no longer need to stress the importance of maintaining the dignity of the National Assembly, and I am sure that at the end of this term, we will all be able to look ourselves in the eye together and be able to say that we have done a quality job and that we have preserved the reputation of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Parliament has mirrored political life in Serbia, mirrored our political scene, and we must be aware that we must not let down the expectations of the people who voted for us and who brought us to sit in this place. It is our obligation to preserve the credibility of this institution and to always be in a positive context when it is spoken of in the future by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. The role of Parliament's president is not just about the plenary presidency. This is one broad range of jurisdiction and according to it, the President of the Assembly has more responsibility, at least for a shade greater than we have MPs. I will remind you that, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly, except for calling meetings, except that he makes a proposal for agendas and concerns about working in the Assembly itself, that he represents this institution in both the country and abroad. Accordingly, I can say that we must not underestimate foreign policy, or the activities of the Assembly in the field of foreign policy. First of all, I mean parliamentary diplomacy. Mr Dacic was foreign affairs, and he understands very well how important it is today for this home to make its contribution to better positioning Serbia in one complex international situation at a time when we are conducting accession negotiations with the EU, when dialogue is being held with Pristina. It's not an easy job either. We will likely form delegation assemblies in the coming days and will be representatives of different political parties. In the international field, in international institutions, it is a practice for political parties to articulate some of the ideas and interests of these parties from which they come, so that it will be one task for the president of the Assembly to shape that foreign policy that must be at the same level as the foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given the majority we have in parliament, I have no doubt that we will elect Mr Dacic as Parliament's president. I expect him to represent the Assembly in the best way, objectively, impartially lead the sessions, to be the first among the equals. I wish him success in his work, and I hope that in one dignified way, he will lead this assembly as a central legislative institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u45	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u46	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, allow me to begin my address in front of the SVM parliamentary group with a quote that I said here on July 26, 2012. You must remember what happened on July 26, 2012, when your government was elected. That's when I started my congregation talk with one quote, in a half way, but maybe it's not a joke. To repeat the quote, who would say miracles would happen and the Miljak Bridges would be carried away? Who thought a week ago that we'd be discussing Ivica Dacic as a candidate for National Assembly President today? I don't think there were any of us. No one thought that Ivica Dacic would be president of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. We expected Ivica Dacic to be part of the government, to be a minister, but we did not expect him to be head of the National Assembly of the RS. I want to say right away, that someone doesn't think I said all this in a negative context, that we SVM support the choice of Ivica Dacic as president of the National Assembly and we think it's an excellent solution. Let me explain why the SVM parliamentary group considers the election of Ivica Dacic to be the president of the National Assembly an excellent solution. It will now take place for the first time in the history of multilaterals in Serbia, after 1990, that the head of the National Assembly will be a national MP who is also the president of a political party. This certainly speaks of the role of the National Assembly president as second most important in the country, not only under the Constitution, but also within the ruling majority, we find this place extremely important. However, for the sake of accuracy, to say that Mr Predrag Markovic was also the honorary president of a political party, briefly, at a time when he chaired meetings of the National Assembly, but being an honorary president and being president of a political party are not the same things. On the other hand, Mr Dacic has had a political experience for nearly three decades and has been either a MP or a federal MP all along while there was another SRJ, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, or was part of the executive government as Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, for a short time and Deputy Prime Minister, while the post existed, Interior Minister and Foreign Minister. Such a rich political experience certainly contributes to his becoming a successful president of the National Assembly. On the other hand, what we consider extremely important is that it is good to be someone at the head of a parliament who has decades of parliamentary experience, because one thing is political experience, and another thing is that this political experience also contains the experience of a MP. To remind the public, according to the Constitution, sovereignty stems from the citizens they perform by means of the freely elected representatives. On 21 June, citizens made their decision on who will be in the National Assembly, which parties, which MPs will become freely elected representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That decision must be respected by all of us and parliament plays a central role in the constitutional architecture of the Republic of Serbia, as it is also the most representative body and the only legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the constitutional body. That is why it is extremely important for the head of parliament to be a person with a rich political experience, which is president of one political party, not one but another of the largest political parties, the other of the most influential political parties currently in the Republic of Serbia and all of this can certainly contribute to the fact that the National Assembly plays a stronger role than it has in the past periods, I am not talking about the past term or the pre-term one, but I am talking about the period since the adoption of this Constitution, and we can also talk about the period since the reintroduction of the multi-party, in the late 1990s, or early 1991s. I wish Mr Dacic success in the interest of all of us, and I want to say that we from the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians can certainly count, that as so far, we, as well as so far, will be worthy of representing the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and primarily those citizens whose votes made us MPs and whose votes made the SVM, our parliamentary group the fourth by number of members in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has never happened before. To say two sentences, however, we have not yet reached this point of the agenda, but there is a split material, so that I would not appear since there is usually no debate over the election of the Vice President of the National Assembly, that I am extremely pleased that the National Assembly will have two vice presidents from the ranks of members of the national minorities. It will be Mrs Elvira Kovac in front of SVM and it will be Mr Muamer Zukorlic. This has never happened before that the National Assembly will have two vice presidents from the ranks of members of the national minorities. What-or more, I've been looking at the statistics and the data from the past. So far, the National Assembly in the previous 11 meetings had three vice-presidents from the ranks of national minorities that was Mr. Istvan Ispanovic, Mr. Esad Djujo, at the time Esad Djudjevic and was Mrs. Judita Popovic. From 1991 to today, the National Assembly will now have two vice presidents from the ranks of members of the national minorities. So, once again, SVM MPs will vote for Mr Dacic's election, as well as for the election of proposed vice-presidents for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u47	The word is Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u48	As an authorised representative of the SPS Group of Members, allow me to say a few words about this taxi agenda today, namely the proposal for Ivica Dacic to be a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before that, allow me to congratulate all the political parties who participated in the previous parliamentary elections and colleagues and colleagues representing these parties today in parliament. I would like to express the satisfaction of the SPS, both the parliamentary groups and the SPS members, which is our President Ivica Dacic is a candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Socialist Party of Serbia is the second political party in its power on the political scene of Serbia and the number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but of course the proposal could not have been supported here in parliament if President Aleksandar Vukic had not proposed Ivica Dacic as president. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I thank him for this, as well as for the SNS and all other MPs who supported this proposal with their signatures. It's about an experienced man with a rich past behind him. Many people know that part of his activity in the executive bodies of the government, less in parliament. I think Ivica Dacic is the right person for this place, because being the first man in parliament of Serbia's highest legislative body, institutions that represent the will of the people and where the voice of the people is heard, the place that is the center of political life where decisions important to Serbia are made, is important. Ivica Dacic is a man who has a rich experience in the work of parliament. He was an MP for the various convocations of the Assembly many years ago, but what few people know and what is not part of his biography, here at least publicly mentioned, is his participation in parliamentary delegations. I think it is a very important part of his biography, parliamentary delegations are an important part of the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will be extremely important in the years to come. Ivica Dacic was also a member of the Interparliamentary Union delegation in some previous meetings of this Parliament and it is important to mention this because these delegations are part of politics, not only of the National Assembly, but of the general state policy. Ivica Dacic was a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I had a rare pleasure, in 2007 in January of the month, to be present as a member of our delegation in Strasbourg when at the parliamentary assembly our delegation spoke of Marty Ahtisaari's plan on Kosovo and one of the few who could hear Dacic speak live about the plan and the way he defended state and national interests. The applause that he won on the open stage from the MPs present at the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly for me was the best proof, confirmation, the way in which state and national interests are defended. What the public knows more, it is his activity in the United Nations Security Council, where he is as foreign minister is the views of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo. I'll say something about that later. I want to say one more part, mention another part of his activity that is unknown to the public. In the early 1990s, Ivica Dacic, on behalf of our party, was the main negotiator in talks within the parliament between the authorities and the opposition on creating conditions for participation in the elections. At that time, believe me, it was not a bit simple, no matter what party you represent, let alone the ruling, to be in a position to discuss in this way everything that is important for Serbia's political life. Ivica Dacic often knows for himself that he is a man of the people and I think he is a parliament, that is, of course, true, because he conveys the voice of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I think parliament is the best place where the will of the people can be expressed. I think Parliament is of course waiting for a significant job. An important institution where representatives, besides the President of the Republic, are the only institutions in the Republic of Serbia whose representatives are elected directly. It is therefore important that the first man of this parliament be one of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because parliament is not only considering laws, he makes decisions that are important for the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is not just about the government, its choice or the choice of other public office holders in Serbia, this is about parliament being a place, a centre of political life in Serbia. I must say, for me Parliament is the most important institution. I must also say, for the sake of myself and the MPs who were in the previous meeting, I think that the parliament in the previous meeting worked well, that Mrs Maja Gojkovic was excellently led by parliament, but you know, when there is a perception and intention of certain MPs that parliament does not work or cause incidents to create such a picture of parliament, then it is difficult to change that picture. I think proposing Ivica Dacic for this place is a great thing, because he has a rich experience of parliamentary work in parliament, a rich experience as a member of parliamentary delegations, and I think he will rightly lead this parliament. Ivica Dacic has knowledge, Ivica Dacic has experience, Ivica Dacic is known as a tolerated man, has a sense of work for parliament, respects MPs, of course those who respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and knows how this work is done. Ivica Dacic left behind numerous results working in the executive government. I don't just mention it as a job when he was Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia or Interior Minister, but also as foreign minister. Thanks to the state policy of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, the leading foreign ministry of the government of the Republic of Serbia, managed to convince 18 states to withdraw or suspend the recognition of so-called. independent Kosovo countries. You know how, respected colleagues and colleagues, along with what the president of the country is doing, this was the strongest diplomatic success of our country and the best sign that without Serbia, a Kosovo problem which is our crucial problem cannot be solved, and that Serbia must be respected, that if a fair and lasting solution to the Kosovo issue is wanted, it must be discussed with Serbia. I also mention this in the context of a sentence we heard today from one MP, and about Dacic's alleged concealment of the truth about the 1990s. On the contrary, even here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in all the discussions held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but even more in parliamentary delegations or in the UN Security Council, Dacic has always sought the truth, the truth, both about the 1990s and the truth about what happened after the 1990s, the truth and about the bombing and the truth of what happened in Kosovo and Metohija after the UN's civilian and military mission arrived. Ivica Dacic signed the Brussels Agreement. There it took great political courage to sign one such document, because at the time he, as Prime Minister and the man who signed it, was animated in public to work against the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. Time has shown that it is an important document for Serbs in Kosovo, extremely important for us as a country and it has proved that Serbia really wants to talk, solve the problem and find a solution. Why is the Brussels Agreement in the part of the formation of Serb municipalities' communities not met? That's the question. Why has Pristina 48 agreements concluded in the meantime not been implemented? That's the question. Why does the KLA not make its documentation available regarding the crimes committed in Kosovo and Metohija? That's the question. These are the questions asked by Ivica Dacic, who I mention to you here today, and that is the best proof of the way he worked and did his job. I am fully convinced that parliament with Dacic will meet the challenges ahead in future. President Vukic announced new elections. That's rare, but I must say, it's also a matter of great political courage. For the first time in Serbia's modern history, new elections are announced at the beginning of the formation of a government. Everyone will have the opportunity to adequately prepare themselves and I hope that we will not have a situation for someone to participate in parliament's work or want to be a participant in negotiations on improving the situation in Serbia, including election conditions, and a boycott announced as a kind of political struggle with the intention of providing itself with some political benefit. There's no political benefit, there's only damage. Those parties who want it now have plenty of time to say what they think, here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to submit any initiative. I am fully convinced that it will come to an understanding of Ivica Dacic, but also of the parliamentary majority, since I know that the parliamentary majority thinks so. Everyone will have the opportunity to say what they want and, of course, create conditions for the future situation in Serbia to be better. The government will pass many laws and we will work. I am fully convinced that Ivica Dacic, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will respond to all the needs of both MPs and the public of the National Assembly. I am convinced, knowing Ivica Dacic, that he will take care of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that every MP will be given the opportunity to speak, of course in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that he will be the voice of the National Assembly in the public of the Republic of Serbia. I am fully convinced that the National Assembly, if I may say figuratively, is turning into the right hands. I know that this proposal was supported by 233 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think more than ever in these 30 years of parliamentary life, and that is something that speaks of candidate Ivica Dacic, candidate for National Assembly President. I thank all those MPs who supported this proposal with their signatures and thank you in advance for the vote that awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u49	The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u50	I would like, firstly, to welcome all the old and new colleagues who are here with us in parliament on behalf of the PUPS Group "Tri P". I think it is very important, because a simple parliament decides on the future of all of us, and especially young generations, and I am glad that many young and new people are currently in this new congregation. As regards the proposal for the President of the Assembly, Mr Ivica Dacic, we of the PUPS "Three P" think it is a decision for Mr Dacic to run, or to propose for the President of the Assembly, that this is why our President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as all of us MPs, or parliamentary groups who have given support, should have actually been strengthened by this Assembly, that by bringing the president of the Party, he is indeed returning the weight and dignity that this Assembly should have. I won't talk much about Mr. Dacic. We've all known each other a long time here. What they would say is, we know each other from good times and bad times. He doesn't lack political knowledge, he doesn't lack parliamentary knowledge, he doesn't lack the political skills he's always had, but I think he's the most important thing, and which we from the PUPS Group "Three P" insist on, is on the dignity of the Assembly, on jurisdiction, on understanding and tolerance. I think that, in addition to all the knowledge and skills Mr. Dacic has, the tolerance I personally know is really something that will mean a lot to all of us in this assembly. We believe there should be a serious opposition, but a serious opposition. In the meantime, for these years and a half, when we have opportunities for new elections to show ourselves, we expect that we will all be a corrective factor for all the laws that should be entered into this Assembly and which should be passed and that we will all work together on exactly what the Assembly should be working on, and that is to improve all conditions for the lives of Serbian citizens, who, among other things, chose to sit here. What's important is that we should all really do our best. We have hard times ahead, and behind us, I hope, they're harder than they're waiting for us. I really need to take this opportunity, this isn't female solidarity, to thank our former president Maja Gojkovic, I don't know if she's here, but she's been successfully led by a past council in difficult times and difficult circumstances. The crown has disturbed us all. As much as I agree or disagree about it, but the fact is that this crown the whole world has conquered and that we don't even know what's waiting for us. In addition to this economic recovery, which we have finally come to with so much effort and work all of us together, it is now that this crown is tripping us again, but I hope that we all together and with the knowledge and skill of the president of the Assembly, and also with our joint efforts of all MPs here, will succeed in getting out of the problem that awaits us and solve really crucial and important things for the citizens of Serbia, we all know, I will not mention them, from the topic of Kosovo which is number one and beyond. So, we expect that we will have good co-operation here and that we will be able to solve problems, very clear problems for all Serbian citizens who are most troubled, and these are also safe salaries and safe pensions and a better standard and, after all, some new legal solutions that will base us. I think that our European perspective is precisely in that some introduction of all these laws and legal frameworks that will lead us to Europe more and more. So I hope we cooperate well. Of course, as the PUPS-3P parliamentary group, we will support Mr. Ivica Dacic's proposal for the president, as well as all the proposals we've all put together here, and I wish everyone together a successful piece of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u51	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u52	I thank you, Madam Chairman. The SNS parliamentary group will support Mr. Ivica Dacic's candidacy as National Assembly President, given his great political experience and good results that he has achieved as foreign minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The SNS parliamentary group will in this assembly of the National Assembly fight for six basic goals. These are the objectives discussed two days ago by the president of the SNS and the President of the Republic of Mr Aleksandar Vukic. The six goals will be the backbone of the policy programme and the new government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mrs. Ana Brnabic. So these six basic goals are next. First of all, we will take care of the health of citizens under the conditions of an epidemic of the coronary virus that affected not only Serbia, not only Europe, but unfortunately the whole world. We will continue the fight to preserve the vital Serbian, national and state interests in Kosovo and Metohija. That fight's gonna be tough. The fight is difficult because the fight for Kosovo and Metohija has been under way for more than 200 years, in very difficult and unfavourable conditions for the Serb people. It would not be correct and it would not be fair if we were to blame only those who were in power before us for all problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and we are Serbs. These problems date back to the 19th century, since the formation of the First Prizren League, and the formation of the Second Prizren League, and the formation of the Third Prizren League, and the mass exorcism of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija during World War II, and the ban on returning to Serbs colonists to Kosovo and Metohija, which was brought by the new communist authorities in 1945 and the process of the constant emigration of the Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija from 1945 to the end of the 1980s and unfortunately the tragedy that struck Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, with NATO bombing, with mass exodus. That tragedy, unfortunately, lasts a day or so. We can say that Kosovo and Metohija today, unfortunately for most Serbs, are one large concentration camp, in which Serbs are being violated by basic human and minority rights, not to mention that since 2013, the Serb community has not been formed, although the Pristina administration has taken the obligation on itself, and the European Union has been guaranteed to implement the Brussels Agreement. So fighting for Kosovo and Metohija is something that awaits us in the coming period. That fight's gonna be tough. I would like to tell the President of the Republic and the future government that there will be a safe and reliable partner in the SNS parliamentary group when it comes to fighting for this part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The third very important policy point that we are going to lead in this Parliament and the policy to be led by both the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia is a decisive, unfettered fight against organised crime, against corruption, against the mafia, regardless of any political, personal or other attributes of the people involved. We simply want a Serbian society that will be completely safe, which will be deprived to the maximum extent possible of organised crime and corruption, and where the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have a safe and reliable partner in the SNS parliamentary group. The fourth, very important SNS target in the National Assembly, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, will be the struggle to preserve the independent position of the Republic of Serbia in the international community. The President of the Republic has spoken of this many times. We want to become an integral part of the European Union and we do not give up that goal. In doing so, we want to maintain absolute independence in leading our foreign policy, in creating our economy, in our fight for Kosovo and Metohija. We expect all countries in the world to be friends, and then at least the correct partners of the Republic of Serbia. We want to make of the countries that were once our enemies, if possible, allies and friends, and if not, then at least the states, and it is the great world powers, which will at least begin to understand the interests of the Serbian people, the interests of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, deepen good and friendly relations with countries that have been of great help to us so far, not only when it comes to fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, but also when it comes to fighting the crown of the virus. First of all, I think of our friends from the Russian Federation and China. But in any case, we want Serbia to remain an independent state, we don't want it to be part of any military or political alliance, we don't want to conflict with anyone in the world, but we will know the best way to protect our national and national interests. When I say this, I mean not only the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia but of the entire Serbian people living in the area of the former Yugoslavia, because the fact is, some wanted to admit it or not, that today in Aleksandra Vukic, President of the Republic of Serbia, and Serbs from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Serbs from Montenegro and of course Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija see absolutely their president, see a man who will care about them and their interests, and their rights. The fact is that the position of the Serb people in Croatia, that the position of the Serb people in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the position of the Serb people in Montenegro is not at all simple, is very delicate, it is very difficult, but all these problems would be much greater if it were not for the wise and thoughtful policies of Alexander Vukic, who had succeeded in difficult times to find bridges of co-operation and communication lines and those with whom it is objectively not easy to talk, but with whom you have to talk, not because of yourself, but because of Serbia living in the former Yugoslav republics, whose position, as I said, was difficult or difficult still. The fifth objective of the SNS parliamentary group and the fifth objective of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia will be to continue the reform processes in all areas of social life, and when it comes to education, especially when it comes to the rule of law and reform of our judiciary, because we want to achieve those standards in the most developed countries of the world, above all in the European Union, because they have proved to be good standards that are primarily good for citizens. We want to reach those standards, not to be praised by someone at a world power centre, but because we believe that Serbian citizens deserve to live just as well, as well as citizens in Britain, citizens in Germany, citizens in France, Italy and in all other developed countries. The sixth goal, perhaps most importantly, because none of these goals would be possible if it did not have that sixth goal, which is the further growth of the Serbian economy. The President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, said that the goal in 2021 is to have a 6% growth, to end this year, if possible, with a zero growth rate, which is a major success, given the global economic crisis that has occurred due to the coronary pandemic and if we succeed, and I am sure we will, Serbia will indeed be a leader not only in the Western Balkans region, but rather a leader in Europe at the rate of economic growth. It just shows that we will insist on all those jobs that we have insisted on since 2014, which is one thoughtful fiscal policy, monetary policy, it is the attraction of new investments, domestic and foreign, the opening of new jobs, and that is what made it possible, this strong economy, that Serbia in the last few years, first of all, militaryly strengthens, that we become once again a respectable military force, not a force that wants to attack anyone, not a force that wants to carry out aggression against any country or any nation, but a force that has the task of defending the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from anyone who would eventually try to attack the state borders of the Republic of Serbia, but also to defend the Serb people from those who committed the crime action "Blash" and "Storm" and who think that such a thing is possible again. And, of course, to defend the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, because there are hotheads there who think they should ban both the few Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija who stayed there. This military power is based on a strong Serbian economy. It was not understood by those who were in power until 2012. They felt that the economy was a means for personal wealth, not for society to be strong and not for your military power to be strong. Alexander Vukic well understood that a strong economy is important for citizens, important for raising living standards, but that it is also important for the acquisition of the most modern military equipment and techniques, because, as you can see, regardless of all idealistic concepts about a world without wars, wars are, unfortunately, the realities of the modern world. Serbia must be ready to defend its interests, it must be ready to defend its state borders, it must be ready to be a guarantee of peace, security in the region, and above all for Serbia that have remained to live in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. What I also want to say to this occasion are the constant attacks of those who are not presently in this House, because they chose not to sit here themselves, which is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not legitimate, because they are not there, these self-called elites. So several percent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia gathered together in an alliance run by Dragan Gilas, these people were declared elite. They are by no means elite, but they have declared themselves elite and this elite has decided to boycott the elections held on 21 June. Just to remind you, these elections were held under conditions that were difficult only for the Serbian Progressive Party, because we had previously passed a set of laws that were all in favour of the opposition and we were all against the interest of the SNS. We are the ones who introduced the Serbian legislation into the concept of a functioning campaign. The SNS ministers were the ones who, at work time, seem a little funny now but just to remind the citizens of Serbia, these were the demands of the opposition we agreed to, because we weren't afraid of the citizens' courts in the elections, the SNS minister couldn't mention the SNS, he shouldn't mention Alexander Vukic at work. We accepted that. We agreed to lower the census from 5% to 3%, although this objectively went to SNS damage. We were the ones who allowed opposition political parties to verify the signatures in municipal and city administrations, that they didn't have to go to public notebooks. We were the ones to remind the citizens of Serbia, who have sharpened, who have strengthened the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Of course, again, I won't say it to harm, but this fight against corruption has always been designed to prevent corruption within the SNS. You shouldn't have said anything about corruption in the ranks of Dragan Gilas, like you can't say a day or two. What I particularly want to point out is a lie that has been going through for years in Serbia, and was particularly expressed during the election campaign, it is still present today in public opinion, which is that in Serbia there is a media darkness, that this media darkness has been introduced by Aleksandar Vukic and therefore there are no conditions for fair and democratic elections, although the fact has been statistically proven, that the largest number of printed and electronic media from day to day is working against Alexander Vukic and for Dragan Gilas, i.e. for those who have decided to boycott the elections. They didn't believe us when we said that, let's say, "Today", it said, one propaganda bulletin from Dragan Gilas. Then we were published by cartoons, that the Hitlers, that we were Goebbels, were publishing the worst possible texts about people sitting here in the National Assembly, about Alexander Vukic being not told, that was daily and here, since 1 January 2021, Dragan Gilas is also the official owner of "Today". Not to mention TV N1 that I'm not talking about all the media that's been campaigning for 24 hours against Alexander Vukic and the SNS. It was such a terrible campaign that can only be compared to the media haranga, which was run on Croatian television in 1991, when you had constant propaganda against Serbia for 24 hours, against the Serb people, against the Yugoslav People's Army, when it came to large Serbian hegemony, about aggression, about some Serb-censors who wanted to create great Serbia. The atmosphere was created again in Serbia in 2019 and 2020, but this time the main target was Aleksandar Vukic. Tell me one medium, or show me one medium, whether it's printed electronically, which is in Vuker's hands or which works for Alexander Vukic. Everyone works for Dragan Gilas. And they decided, despite all that, not to go to the polls, because they knew they couldn't win the election, but that they couldn't even cross that 3 percent famous censorship. And then they decided to boycott the election. And when the elections were over, then they wanted to derail this parliament, to say that this parliament is not legitimate because there is no opposition. He's absolutely legitimate, because the people voted for all of you sitting here, and they chose not to have them here. So no one forced them to a boycott. Boycott is a legitimate thing, but don't complain and don't cry about the consequences of your decision. It's your decision not to sit in the National Assembly. This shows that you do not appreciate Serbian citizens, that you do not care what they think, that you do not respect the National Assembly as the highest state and political body of the Republic of Serbia and shows, after all, that you are no elite, that you were also other people who worked and who today work exclusively against the interests of Serbian citizens and the Republic of Serbia as a state. But if I wasn't into them anymore, they'd gone back in time. I want to order again from this place, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. The SNS parliamentary group will be a reliable partner and president of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic and the new government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight to achieve these six basic goals, and on each of these goals, my distinguished fellow MPs from the parliamentary group will say more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u53	We're moving on to the list of registered speakers. The word has a People's Messenger, Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u54	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would at first take advantage of the opportunity for all, personally in my own, and on behalf of the Justice and Reconciliation Party to congratulate the election of MPs and to wish everyone successful work. On the agenda is a very important issue, a matter important to the citizens themselves, for us MPs, ultimately important for the country itself, which is the choice of the National Assembly president. What we expect in the Justice and Reconciliation page from the future president of the National Assembly is a correct and constructive relationship, of course, towards all MPs, but especially with MPs representing minority communities, or minority peoples in the Republic of Serbia, and according to the latest minority list in Serbia, there is about one third, which is very significant and is not a negligible number at all. We believe it represents the true wealth of this society. On the other hand, we expect the president of the National Assembly to be the first among the equals. So, to show the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism, practically in their work. What is realistically going to be perhaps a difficult circumstance when we talk about these two significant principles is certainly a lack of strong opposition. Therefore, the strong opposition is the best correction of the authorities, or those in a particular position. As a minority party, what we would specifically ask the future president of the National Assembly is to change the threshold, i.e. the border on the formation of parliamentary clubs, from five to three MPs. What are we looking for this for? For the simple reason that the treatment of the minority party does not have the same with the majority parties either during the censorship itself, or in the elections, so it is not logical that we have the same treatment in the formation of parliamentary clubs, because we believe that so our right to respect, to say more constructive participation in Parliament's work is being obstructed, because then we are in a situation where we have less minutes to speak and the other rights behind us are certainly being withdrawn by the MP club itself. In the hope that this parliament, therefore, will be the 12th session of this Parliament, in which we will face arguments, but with respect for each other, primarily through respect for human dignity, thus respecting Parliament itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u55	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u56	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, I object to Mr Ivica Dacic's election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's normal since I'm one of the few opposition MPs in this assembly. That's also normal because I've been fighting politics against the SPS for 30 years, headed by Mr. Ivica Dacic. However, these are not mostly reasons why I object to this proposal. The most important reasons are that at a time when we suffer great pressures as a state and as a people to give up fighting for the preservation of KIM in the composition of our Republic of man who has achieved 18 recognitions as foreign minister, we withdraw to one protocol function. In addition to not agreeing with Mr. Ivica Dacic in many things, he has achieved great success in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That success was the first success we had after twelve years of retreating from pressure to give up Kosovo and Metohija. When he has achieved this success, we draw him back to a function that is formally the third in the country, but at a time when the election deviations have led to the fact that this Assembly is more like a party congress of SNS and its friends, I think it is obvious that the role of the National Assembly president could be performed by someone else who has far less political experience, much less of their international contacts such as Ivica Dacic, who could have helped us in the place where he has so far been in defense of our national interests. If the current and future prime minister of the Serbian government, Mrs. Ana Brnabic deserves the mandate to continue as prime minister, I think Mr. Ivica Dacic deserves much more to be foreign minister. Following the Washington Agreement, the withdrawal of the one most successful in the fight for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija to the protocol function of the president of the National Assembly calls into question the willingness of this government to continue to fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia in the way it did in the previous period, as an opposition that is not destructive and does not ignore the state interest, I believe this raises a coldness and puts doubt on your willingness to continue to strongly oppose the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia. That is why I am voting against, and I think the consequence is that you could at all find a position to withdraw Ivica Dacic and bring to a situation of a protocol function that you have in some way led the election deviations to the fact that the function of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not as important as it used to be. I'm not saying that the Serbian Progressive Party has done it alone, I'm not saying that many parties have not done it before you, we haven't been able for 30 years to find an appropriate electoral process that doesn't deform the electoral will of our citizens, we've had a completely wrong model of the media system in which every opposition party is ready to fight for media freedoms until it comes to power, and then forgets what it has been looking for. It is the same situation with the Serbian Progressive Party, and I must admit that in the last phase you were ready for some electoral concessions and I welcome that, and I hope you will keep your promise to continue in that direction. What none of the political parties or authorities, or opposition, will say for thirty years is the fact that our party model is the source of all corruption in the political system, the party model of mass parties with uncut leaders is a party model that destroys our parliamentaryism and devises the multiparty system and slowly slips into a one-party political model. That is why I will advocate changing the electoral system, and changing the media image of Serbia and the media system in Serbia, but even more importantly, for changing the party model. Serbia must abolish mass parties by means of its legal system and prevent leadership manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u57	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not a congress of any party, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which MPs, elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they are bearers of the sovereignty of citizens who were in the elections. Let's get this straight. Neither Serbia is a party state nor one-party. The political parties are the bearers of a democratic society and let's get this straight. The stronger or weaker some of them are, the problem of leadership, programmes and the way of political struggle. And don't always be somebody else's fault for someone else's failure. I've participated in many elections. We were winning and losing, and when we lost, we weren't looking for the culprit in the other one, but inside ourselves, where we made the mistake, what we needed to correct, how to improve the score. Should the democratic system be reformed? We can, but here, and not as it was on July 5th when someone tried to repeat October 5, 2000, so he tried to enter the Assembly and set it on fire again, I guess we wouldn't be sitting here today, so they decided to boycott, to use arson, break-ins, take power violently. Well, it is our turn that whether we support the government or not, whether we support the election for the President of the Assembly or not, at least in a unique way – we will not participate. The assembly is a representative body, it makes laws. Does anyone want to acknowledge the conditions under which we have all passed laws over the past few years, what was it that the National Assembly and the MPs, I can't say, forced us to, but under one sign of having to pass laws that weren't even popular, and we passed them? It was not easy to start a reform of the economic and economic system in 2014, which Aleksandar Vucic started at the time. I can say it was very brave to do something like that. At that time, many who led Serbia to the position that the economy no longer exists, and that the state was financed exclusively from credit, attacked the model of reforms conducted by Aleksandar Vukic. They were not only fighting in the Assembly by political means, but by trying in any way to completely destroy the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the same ones who also destroyed the economy and economy of the Republic of Serbia headed by former President Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas and Solak, that even MPs in this room were threatened not to do well, if they voted in favour of those laws, that the MPs of the former regime were trying physically to deal with us so that we could not implement economic reforms. Well, let's once the National Assembly be a place where we don't want to talk about violence, political differences -- yes, different models of solving problems -- can, but just so we don't talk about violence anymore, and we've been witnessing back here for a few years what violence one minority, represented by the former regime, has been doing over MPs who didn't think the same way they did. In 2014, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was over 74% or 75%, and the unemployment rate was over 27% and certain measures had to be implemented that were not very popular. Some of those measures called the robbery, the former regime, and it wasn't a robbery that led the state to such a huge public debt and so much devastation, it wasn't a robbery? These were “the circumstances. ” And backwards, for six years now, the reform programme launched by Aleksandar Vukic is still being implemented today. Someone's going to say - but maybe it can go faster, maybe it can do better or maybe we can't see. The first serious test of economic reforms conducted by Aleksandar Vukic since 2014 is this particular coronary crisis. Find me an economy in an environment that's been so tough and so long resisting this pandemic that's hit the whole world. When the borders are closed, when they are introduced today in Western Europe into the EU, the police hour, when people are not going to work, that our economy maintains a level of economic activity that guarantees that it will survive in a crisis like this. To ask a question, could the health system that we found from Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas and Solak be able to withstand the pandemic of the coronary virus, which has hit us since the spring of this year? I say you wouldn't. I'm saying I wouldn't and I got a hint of what would have happened if they'd stayed in power. They'd probably die in the streets, and they'd be a little happier in hospitals that don't have respirators with doctors who don't have technical opportunities to provide health care to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That was the country we inherited in 2012 and 2014. We can also talk about monetary policy. Among other things, the National Assembly changed the National Bank Act. The law, the first initial change of the National Bank Act, was neither proposed by the National Bank nor proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It was proposed by the MPs. The moment he was elected governor of Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic under the new law, the dinar was 119,80. That was August 5, 2012. What is the course of the euro today? Or to make a comparison, on August 5, 2008, when the euro rate was 78 dinars, so Đilas, Tadic, Solak went up to 119,80, of course with the "Deltalend" so that something might not miss. Now, don't let fellow MPs mix things up. By 2012, we may have had MPs who voted in favour of laws that were exclusively against Serbian citizens and exclusively in favour of the tycoon. Here, I will only mention one law – the Foreign Exchange Act. It was brought to amnesty by all who were engaged in speculative activities on the financial market and would not respond and go to prison. These were the tycoon MPs from the former regime who tried to stop by violence here, too, the laws that destroyed an empire established by the tycoons in Serbia by 2012. There lies all the weight of a people's messenger and his sovereignty that the citizens gave him. It is not about whether they will listen to their political party or not, but whether they will work exclusively in the interest of their citizens, the same citizens who chose them. Backwards, for six years now, the National Assembly has passed laws exclusively for the benefit of citizens who have elected MPs. You may not believe it, you can take your heads off, but today the GDP of the Republic of Serbia is 46 billion euros. When we got there, he was under 35. You can also not believe it, just look at how many miles of highways have been built, how many new factories have been opened. That our unemployment rate has been at a historic minimum since Serbia exists, below 8%. Many Western European countries and the EU today would like to have results that Serbia has. Such MPs here today make up one majority of the National Assembly. We will vote exclusively in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the candidate for National Assembly President, I am quite confident and convinced that Mr. Ivica Dacic is ready to continue as National Assembly President all of those reforms that Aleksandar Vukic started in 2014, especially for the reasons that he participated in these reforms both as Minister and as first Deputy Prime Minister from 2014 to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u59	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u60	Honored chairman, respected fellow MPs, the June 21st elections showed the Serbian citizens' wish that in difficult times, such as not only Serbia, but the whole world, were led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, as the leading party on the political scene, which has taken responsibility since 2012, for many difficult times, when it comes to the country's economic reforms and the legal changes that have taken place, when it comes to changes in Serbia's foreign and domestic policy itself, because this is the best indicator when you have good relations with both the East and the West, that much has changed since 2012 until today. The difficult times today are the time when we talk about the world pandemic caused by Koron, i.e. Kovid-19, are difficult times when we talk about major pressures after major political earthquakes on the world's political scene, when it comes to the pressures of resolving Belgrade and Pristina's relations. The hard times are still today when we talk about the consequences of the Kovid-19 pandemic, when we talk about the economy itself, and the economic reforms implemented since 2012 that have started to produce very good results when it comes to Serbia. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, on 28 December 2019, made one long-term plan, which called "Serbia 2025", in which it gave itself and set really high goals that should represent strategic investment of 14 billion euros in all areas of social life. Simply, by launching the economy and completing all strategic projects, when it comes to infrastructure, the launch from the field of environmental protection, science, should have simply given full momentum and the development of so-called non-profit activities, especially when it comes to building schools, hospitals, which should have, in fact, taken Serbia at a high growth rate of over 5% a year. But in March of the month, we were all aware of what had happened and what had happened to the world. At that moment, the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the initiative of the president of the state, Mr. Vukic, implemented and decided to implement how health measures, to protect the lives of the citizens of Serbia and the economic measures, which should have prevented the sun-to-be economies that are now the most developed countries not only of the EU, the larger world economy. What has shown is that these measures have yielded results, that Serbia at least fell when it comes to the economic downturn of world economies, that Serbia had the best results in June. And in July, the European Commission has indeed confirmed in all the research carried out that Serbia, which has found all the economies, has, in fact, presented it as one of its greatest characteristics in the economy. I'll remind you that she did a lot of things when it comes to economics, not only did she give three personal incomes at a time when the economy stood up to all those economic operators, who were over 235 thousand who had reported their employees, who had not fired workers, in the value of minimum personal income. Then, on top of that, when it was over, she realized that she would achieve her full momentum in development, or growth, to reduce all that global economic downturn, she approved two more personal incomes, a minimum personal income of 60%. So we came to the conclusion that over a million people received this support from Serbia's budget, that more than 6.2 million people received economic support in so-called. 100 euros, which many laughed at, and then it turns out that this economic measure has given a really good effect when it comes to the development of this internal so-called. Trade consumption, then, that over 314 hotels that were really high costs when it came to tourism itself received from the state support of billions and 247 million dinars and that in the end we have, what is most significant, over 108 companies reported to receive 10 000 and create new jobs when it comes to young and high school students and children who finished colleges. Thus, the state has indeed turned to different sectors where it has seen major problems. Not to mention that health workers really had pay increases for a reason, that the pensioners had received one-time assistance and that everything was thought of at this point. The European Commission announced less than a month ago that Serbia has grown, according to the survey, its index of business mood and the index itself is 7.1 and that in just a month it has risen by 1.9, which is what she wanted to say is optimism about investments in Serbia. That is why we have the highest degree today, over two billion euros in foreign direct investment, which has shown that people and beyond Serbia are ready to invest in Serbia, because they see it as a stable state with a stable economy, but also a stable political environment, because especially after the signing of the Washington Agreement, it has proved that Serbia not only has good relations with the EU and the Russian Federation and with the People's Republic of China, but simply opens a new chapter when it comes to relations with the United States. So, this is one indicator that these programme goals set by Aleksandar Vucic, proposing Anna Brnabic to be prime minister, and these programme goals that involve caring for human health, then, the fight to preserve the integrity and rights of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, then, the part that concerns the fight against the mafia and the fight against organised crime and corruption, which is one of our most important objectives of this programme, shows that without the accelerated reforms that we have defined both as state and government, and also this Parliament, simply, should support it, shows that the preservation of independence of decisions we make as politicians is indeed one of our most important goals that we should pursue not only now, but also in the future, because we have hardly fought as a country for this position. Finally, what is of great importance to us is that today, when we elect the president of parliament from the ranks that did not propose SNS, I must not mention that at the time Mrs. Maja Gojkovic led this assembly we have been through a lot. We have passed since the time when some members of the opposition, who considered themselves the most important in this society, showed that it should not look like the face of Serbia, when they physically attacked Maja Gojkovic, not only as president of the Assembly and representatives of the SNS and politics of Aleksandr Vukic, but also as a woman, physically tried to calculate themselves in the absence of obvious arguments. They simply wanted the whole work, which has been here since 2012, led by the SNS, to be buried somewhere and put under the rug, and we have to say that much has been done really in the development of parliamentaryism. First of all, it should be said that we never ran away from talking and this open political dialogue to launch, thanks to the president who opened the door of parliament and ultimately suggested that four legislative solutions go through amendments and amendments to the law, when it comes to the opening of any rights for members of the opposition, and who said there is simply no democracy in Serbia. The democracies were too much, so much so that when all the demands were sought, they simply said they did not want to go to the elections, because they knew that neither those requirements, which we adopted, were that three percent being a censorship for the election were not able to cross, showed that simply everything they were talking about did not stand, and therefore the citizens of Serbia did not want to support the irresponsible politicians and those who wanted to support them here today in parliament. It should be said that by the day of today 2012, Serbia's parliament has done a lot of things in terms of parliamentary democracy, and especially as the crown of all delegations, the one led by Parliament's President, which is that the 141st Interparliamentary Union session was held right in Belgrade, that more than 250 countries attended, of which 78 parliament presidents met with Parliament's president, and that the others sent all their high delegations and that for the first time Serbia was presented as an example of good practice when it comes to the Serbian parliament. I am saying this, not only because of the citizens of Serbia, to remind myself that something like this is really possible if you do, but also because of the new MPs I want to say that every committee has its work and that every committee should simply seek, achieve and increase this scale in which it should set itself high goals, and obviously we are today as a political party, headed by the president and our party, but also by states, defined that we are achieving high scales, we have shown that this is possible. It is possible if you really want to show good co-operation with other parliaments. At the time of the SNS chairmanship, we opened joint parliamentary committees with the Russian Federation, with the People's Republic of China and with Greece. Therefore, we have shown that we can speak openly with countries that are truly friendly to us in a parliamentary debate on everything. So, about everything about the support of parliaments, the support of the state, the support of the economy, and that the six strategic objectives, which are simply set before us here, are the programme that we will be led into the future. So, as coalition partners, we've chosen all those parties that are here in parliament. We also want to assume that Mr. Ivica Dacic, who will be elected president of parliament, will also support this programme that is set before us, because there is ahead of us the future of our children and the future of Serbia that not only depends on how we behave as responsible politicians, but how we behave as representatives of the citizens who elected us here. That is why we will support the SPS proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u61	The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u62	Thank you. I have spoken many times in this high house, but today it is an extraordinary honor for me to speak in front of the JS parliamentary group about the proposal to elect the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and when we know that this candidate is Ivica Dacic, then you will understand this great honor. About Ivica Dacic, we were able to hear a lot today, that one of the best statesmen Serbia has had, that through the work of the ministries it has run, only for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the country of Serbia, it has left significant results in all the restaurants and has equally participated in the adoption and regulation of the regulations in these areas. Ivica Dacic is a man who managed to maintain the continuity of a party headed by him and to be a standard on Serbia's political scene, but, above all, Ivica Dacic is a man, a man from a people who has not changed through his rich political career. He remained consistent with both the parties and the citizens who gave him unconditional support through all the periods our country was going through. We are witnessing that, with the great pawnage of Ivica Dacic and, of course, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, many countries have withdrawn and recognised the so-called "recognition". the Republic of Kosovo. I am sure that from the seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia he will continue to work for the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the Republic of Serbia, of course, including our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. I think the seat of National Assembly President will be a challenge for him, but not an unknown, given that Ivica Dacic is a longtime MP and a man with a rich political career. The seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is an honor for every state-of-the-art politician. Since I have little time, given that this topic will be spoken by my colleague, Life Starcevic, in the very end I want to say that the JS parliamentary group will unconditionally support the election of President Ivica Dacic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that all JS MPs, through daily work in the National Assembly, will be open to co-operation and support for the future president, because only the united can respond to all the challenges that await us in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u63	The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u64	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen of the small screens that you are with us today in this transmission, we have a unique opportunity today to actually look at, that this proposal by SNS, by Mr Ivica Dacic, to send a clear and absolutely unequivocal message to the public, which is that, as many times so far, the most important state interest, is that we will never take on individual and particular interests, but exclusively the interests of our citizens and all that they have in the previous period, as responsibility, passed on to us, by their trust in the elections so many times. What is very important today, and my colleagues have already talked about it, is just to take a closer look at what we are going to talk about in the next period in this house, and to what our citizens are bound by their trust and whatever Serbia has ahead of it today as challenges. These six goals that will be the future government policy, but also the policy that will be led right here in the highest legislative body, in the House of the National Assembly, is something that we are obliged to trust so many times in the past, the trust of the citizens of Serbia, because when citizens of Serbia give you that kind of trust, they actually tell you that they want you to solve their problems, they don't want their children to inherit the problems their parents and grandparents had. It is our great responsibility to approach these problems, not to allow our children to inherit them properly. Also, it is very important to say here today a few facts that really cannot be crossed in this debate, and that is what the policy that awaits us here in Parliament is. It's actually a policy of continuity, a policy of good experience. Indeed, I must say that the parliamentary history of this house has been truly incriminating, broad, and in time since the SNS was responsible, and has had responsibility at the head of this house, it is very responsible for its function and its duty, which this House as legislative and as the highest is bound by it and to what it obliges us to do. I must also say that this path of parliamentary history that we have been through in the previous period was not at all easy. Moreover, it seems to me that in the previous period, especially during the period of the term of office in which Mrs Maja Gojkovic was chaired by this house, was not easy at all. Although we have brought a number of different documents here, very good laws, we have done various political acts, I can say freely, and concessions, we have agreed, opened to dialogue, improved parliamentary democracy, and I am quite certain that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, during this period where she chaired almost six and a half years of this House, played an exceptional and crucial role in improving parliamentary democracy, improving all those moments that have contributed to us sitting in this house today and we are living debated and we will, of course, discuss all the problems that concern our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, in addition to very good laws, in addition to improving election conditions in some period very short which is behind us, we had the opportunity to make certain concessions, we had the opportunity even to have certain laws that certainly improved dialogue, but also to show how the SNS sees the dialogue in parliament, when, on many occasions, exactly the proposals that came from the opposition respected, and here these laws were also being formed by us as the ruling party in this case and on this side of the hall, we raised our hands and voted for this very bill. One of these is the 40% law on women's representation on all lists. I think that thanks to this, and I know that although it was an initiative of opposition and one leader in this women's field, Mrs Gordana Komic, I am quite certain and very confidently aware that the initiative came from both SNS women who certainly did not have the need, although they had 40% of women in their parliamentary group, insisted on this law, but have made sure that because of all the other women involved in this political life, because of all those who failed to show their faces, that they were visible in the political process, in their smaller parties, they helped to make this law visible and today that we have this result right here, reflected in this House and in this House, and frankly, even though I say that the Presidency and even Parliament's policy was successful during the term of Ms. Maja Gojković, I know and you were witnesses, the public was certainly testifying to all the unpleasant, in fact that we had not been able to do so much of the locality, but in fact that we had been able to do so much to do so much in the wrongly, in the wrongly, but in fact, in fact, in fact, we had to do the wrongly, we all of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any kind, which, which, which of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any of any kind, which, which, which of any kind, which, which of any kind, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, which, I, which, I think, I think, I mean, I mean, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, and I think, and I think, and I think, and I think, and I think, and I think, that We are trying and we are of course trying to improve parliamentary discussion, to respect different opinions, and that is exactly what we are doing. You also had the opportunity to hear two days ago from our Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, about the six goals and principles that are ahead of us, in the coming period we will all truly unite fully. So, not only will it be government goals, but it will be something that will be depicted both to parliament and to all the other state authorities and institutions in the system of government that will make sure that everything my colleagues have talked about, which is primarily about prevention, i.e. fighting Kovid 19, which we are fighting both today and in the previous seven months, we continue successfully in the direction that we have set out not to slow Serbia's progress, especially economic progress in every sense that is surprising, because in the world we do not see that opportunities are brilliant and we see that world economies really fall in some percentages that are quite high from 6% to 15%, and you have seen and we will see by the end of the year that Serbia is absolutely not only a leader in the region, but Serbia by economy, according to the total parameters of one in Europe. This is what will really oblige us to continue to work hard, and first of all we thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for believing, because they have virtually listened to politicians, politicians who are serious people, who are serious about this country and who did not take into account the manipulations and all the opportunities they had to hear in the previous period from the work of opposition and quasi politicians. When people give you this kind of support you are not in a situation, as it is right and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic in his address to the public two days ago and said, you have no open card to do what you want and what you want. You have an obligation to do what the citizens asked you to do by transferring your sovereignty. It's their future. It is a solution to all the problems concerning their children, concerning Serbia's progress, and it is a great honor and pleasure for me to be able to talk here in this home today, and we will talk about improving these relations, improving economic parameters, and that we will all work together to keep Serbia on this road, and the citizens have recognized very well what they saw with their eyes, and they have seen built railways, they have seen built factories, built roads, they have seen new jobs, they have seen that Serbia even at the time of the Coronal Virus, when I say the whole world economy falls and experiences a collapse so tightly standing on its feet won't notice in some future period of decline. I know that economists and it's not right to say positive zero, but that zero right now really looks very positive. I hope that, in the future, we will be able to maintain the level of dialogue we had in the previous period of Parliament's work, that we will improve it in every way possible. I'm quite certain that the MP group I belong to will work absolutely hard. As for the election of the president of the National Assembly, I'm sure the right people are in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u65	The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u66	I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all the MPs and parties who have entered parliament and to wish for happy work. Today we are discussing the election of the president of the Serbian Parliament. It is both de facto and de jure the third position in the state of Serbia, and it is very important which person performs that function. Candidate Ivica Dacic has an undisputed political and diplomatic experience. What we as the Justice and Reconciliation Party expect him to do is open the Chamber of Parliament to all MPs, that parliament be an arena where we will face the views, arguments, facts, where there will be no unloved scenes that we have had in some previous mandates to watch. We expect the President of Parliament to be an essential service to all MPs but also essential service to all citizens and citizens living in the Republic of Serbia. We essentially expect that some of the things that are very important for democratic processes in the Republic of Serbia should be initiated from a dead end. counterpart Pramenkovic said that more than 30% of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia are members of minority communities, and that very few below 5% are represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is something that we must fundamentally change in the coming period, and the position of Parliament's president is crucial. What we also expect is that, in accordance with the Law on the selection of MPs, we apply something similar in the Assembly, because it is unacceptable from the position of essential democracy and the rule of law that minority parties must also have parliamentary clubs of five MPs. We expect that through one dialogue with the President of Parliament, we will change the Rules of Procedure and that for minority parties, this level will be reduced to three MPs. What I must remind myself, unfortunately, is the recent statements made by Mr Dacic, which concern Bosniaks, Muslims and some of the symbols of Islam such as the mosque minaret. Those statements are absolutely unacceptable from the position of public discourse and a polite address. I expect that from the position of the president of the National Assembly we will no longer have that statement because they are through those statements, you may disagree with someone, but we cannot insult the collectiveities. Through those statements, all Muslims in the Republic of Serbia felt the insult, which is our citizens and citizens. This attitude would also be taken if it were, of course, any other religious group. Also, as for the situation in the region, as for the situation in BiH, that's where we differ. We believe that reconciliation in the Western Balkans region, in the area of the former Yugoslavia, however we will, has no alternative and that a fundamental relationship, a good relationship between Bosniaks and Serbs, Serbs and Bosniaks, is important for the process. As for the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation party -- academician Muamer Zukorlic, we will support the election of the new leadership of the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u67	The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u68	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, so today we are talking about the election of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we are essentially talking about the continuity of a policy represented and led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. We are talking today about how much more successful Serbia is than Serbia in 2012 or earlier. Today we're talking about how much higher national income is, today we're talking about how much greater concern it is for the military, how much care it is for education, how much care it is for the police, how much health care it is. In this light, I'm going to talk about things that are most important to us forwarders. I will talk most about how the state should care about the protection of the population, the health care of the population and how it responded in some accidents and various epidemiological circumstances, as is this crisis with Kovid 19. I'll be on my way, from something that I consider elemental, and fundamentally for my healthcare professional and for me as a doctor, it is medical equipment. Why do I say that? Because today I am extremely proud that the state of Serbia has not faced a lack of medical equipment. So, by personal engagement and by President Alexander Vukic and his international authority, we managed to get all the necessary equipment, and not just the masks and gloves, but also the protective suits, the respirators, in time and not experience the disaster that some other countries have experienced. This is particularly important because the market conditions for the transport of these goods are very bad and we can say that success is even greater. What is also significant, and I would mention, is the exact state of medical equipment, not only in the surrounding countries, but in the highly developed countries of Western Europe and the United States. I'll tell you, and I have a lot of colleagues, friends, who aren't just here, who work in these health systems, that they've been facing huge problems, that they've been desperately looking for and yelling for medical equipment. I'll tell you that from their own medical suits, various medical and non-medical equipment were trying to make manuals to protect them from the transmission of infectious disease. The happy environment is not only a happy environment, but rather a concern I would say, responsibility and knowledge that the state of Serbia has not come into this situation. What's also important is that we've had enough respirators. I'll tell you a play that was faced by colleagues abroad. The drama is that one health care professional who has learned to help a sick person has to make a decision on his shoulders about who lives and who dies, who gets expelled from the respirator and who gets involved. It happened in highly developed Western countries too. I'll also quote governor of New York, Andrew Kuom, who complained that the federal states, along with the federal government, were racing to purchase equipment, but by raising the price of each other. I quote -- it's like you're on an eBay, with 50 other states bidding for respirators, he said. I would thus put an end to all the ominous and malicious comments that appeared from time to time regarding this subject. Another very important segment of providing health care in these emerging epidemiological circumstances is the mass and adequate testing of citizens on Kovid 19. I must inform you gentlemen of the MPs, as well as the citizens watching this transmission, that Serbia is fifth in Europe by the number of people tested on 100,000 patients. Only Italy, Germany, Switzerland and Austria are ahead of us. And here the President of the Republic has made an unmistakable contribution. Personal contact and personal friendship with Mr. Si Jinping led to us having two super-labs "Fire Eye", one in Belgrade, one in Nis, which have an amazing capacity, together 4,800 tests a day, or test results. That's something that's put the state of Serbia in order, I'd say, the most powerful states in this segment. The fifth in Europe by the number of tests, I would say is a great success for us. I wouldn't keep it just on this, the third segment of our story, these goals are just health infrastructure. The third segment primarily means investing in the health system. Currently, hospitals are being reconstructed in Prokuplje, then in Loznica, Smederjevska Palanca, Arangelovac, construction begins, construction and reconstruction of hospitals in Vranja, Piroth, Kikindi, Pancheva, Čuprija. Each of these projects is worth about 25m euros to 30m euros. Gentlemen, these are capital projects. But what I'm saying is that's exactly what we owe our people. It's something that was really necessary to do. Visiting those centers during an earlier period, I can really say that our health infrastructure has been abandoned. I'm going to take a special look at the Medical Center in Prokuplje. Why? Because the Medical Center in Prokuplje was built even during the SFRY, so during the former state, it was built only in the gray phase. In 1989 he was practically left in that gray phase and until last year no single dinar was invested in the facility. Since last year, the reconstruction has begun, the first phase is now ending, we are already moving intensively into the second phase of reconstruction of this center. Why did I mention this? Because the health center in the Paradise Cup was a form of how the former government treated the health system, after all, as it treated the citizens of this country. Also, "Dragisa Misovic" was reconstructed, an Infectious clinic was reconstructed, part of KBC "Beige Hair", VMC "Karaburma". As far as clinical centres are concerned, you know the Nis Clinical Center is also over. A clinic centre in Belgrade, the Clinical Centre of Serbia ends next September, next year. These are capital projects that life means. I'll remind you, and I'm obliged to remind you that in 2004, the government of all mouths boasted that in eight years it would end all four clinical centres. A loan was also agreed with the European Investment Bank. According to the plan, the eight years should have ended, so also the Clinical Centre in Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. Of course, it was no more than a promise. What is even sadder is that for years these funds have been in the account of the European Investment Bank, and the funds that have been withdrawn, unfortunately, the state paid interest because they were not used at the time. Now, this is the relationship and concern of the former government, and this is a reflection and concern of the current government not only about health care, but about every citizen in general, because the essence of the work of the current health system is a patient at the heart of the health system. It's the essential thing for every medic. Today we listen to these people who deliberately comment on the construction of covid hospitals, the reconstruction of medical centers, where there is, of course, a grudge -- why is it done, why so much? It's done so much because the system is left in a catastrophic state. In addition, every investment in the health system, every investment in any facility, in any equipment is always repeatedly returned through the health of the population. I'm proud and happy and happy that we're on our way to building new bird hospitals. We've got those hospital bastards almost done, almost prepared. On the other hand, tomorrow there will be another virus, another need for healthcare facilities, for the medical equipment in which it is now heavily invested. It's never about to have a sufficient number of sick beds, not just in intensive and semi-intense care, but at all. That's my point of view and let someone who thinks the opposite of sharing opinions come forward. What I also want to tell you is that by investing in the health system, Serbia shows power, shows the ability to respond to tasks as never before. What I also want to tell you is that investment in the health system, I don't mean here just building infrastructure, I mean investing in equipment and, of course, in people who are also intensely invested, means one prerequisite for the survival of health care personnel, primarily high school but also high school in our institutions. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u69	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u70	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the presidency, dear colleagues, I will first as well as all my colleagues congratulate all of us on our new mandate and wish us success in the work in the period ahead of us. Today, as we have already heard, we are choosing the leadership of the Serbian Parliament and I have the honour to speak to you about the president of my party, but first of all about my friend. If it weren't for Ivica Dacic, it would be hard for me to talk after Zarko Obradovic and Djolet Milicevic, but we are talking about a man who can be talked about for a long time, because his biography is complex. We've heard commendations, we've heard criticism. I must say at first that we will not be able to commend him all of us who have a need and reason as much as he is in favor of a discussion that has tried to minimize him today. Not because of who is talking, but when in a negative context talking about Ivica Dacic, someone who has an ambition to disrupt Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, then the main recommendation for Ivica is that, he is a threat because he will be the guardian of these two very important state interests. So if I were going to elaborate that discussion, I would reduce the value of this session. I don't want to do that. I thank you for this wonderful recommendation, everything that bothers you about Serbia is good, so Ivica Dacic is an ideal solution. I will return to the president of the SPS and the future president of the Serbian Parliament and his biography, not in a way that I will read, not in a way that I will stress that he was the best student, he does not like to do it himself, but I will say that all of those epithets Ivica has completed the political experience and the fact that in the past 30 years, Ivica Dacic has always been someone who, in Serbia's interest and for the sake of Serbia and its citizens, faced the most difficult challenges ahead of her. For the past 30 years, it hasn't been easy, it's time-consuming, and it's been out of line with problems that have gone beyond other people's ambitions to disrupt what he loves most, which is his own country. Serbia's largest legislative body is not irrelevant. This is the second-largest function, we are talking about the president of the Serbian Parliament, which represents the legislative authority as one of the three postulates contained in the Serbian Constitution. So I also thank the coalition partners who, despite the great majority they have, have given their hands to co-operation and socialists, have allowed us as a joint team to assist in implementing what will first be legislative power. It was heard here that Ivica was doing a good job as foreign minister and that it was a shame that he was interrupted in that part. I don't think it's broken, I think it's raised to a higher level. I say this, not because of us sitting in the hall, but because of the citizens and citizens of Serbia who listen to me, explaining that there is no truth here in the malignant statements we hear from people who are probably called the opposition, I don't know how it is treated today in Serbia. There's no humiliation here for socialists or Hansel. Ivica Dacic was second-largest and most important, not in size, I apologize, in Serbia, and that is only the continuity of the policy that has shown that he has the absolute trust of Serbian citizens with more than 80%. All the rest are malignant assumptions, spins, and attempts to get out of all of us together, and there's a lot of us, make one group, interesting first, which I don't know what it looks like, we've heard that we look like some party congress. No, we look like representatives and we are representatives of the people who gave us confidence to preserve sovereignty and territorial integrity in his name first. I'm sure what one of his colleagues listed as a possible Ivica's flaw, or something they don't expect, which is some comment, which I personally believe has been drawn from the context, we won't hear in the Assembly, I'm sure we won't. Hansel is not a man whose manners are offensive, Hansel is not a man who likes to fight. Hansel is a man who, first of all, loves his country. It will not be easy and this task is not easy, but, as far as I've heard from all my colleagues and all the MPs, it will help him work, including the SPS MPs. I want to, first of all, as a former MP, but perhaps more than that and as a woman in parliament, to thank President Maja Gojkovic, in whose term we have done a lot, but I will stress only one thing, not because she is the most valuable or because they remain less valuable, but I will stress the Law on 40% of women, for which she first fought personally. We may all have helped a little bit, but the opinion and position of Parliament's president at that point was crucial. Thank you for your cooperation, thank you for what we have had the opportunity to learn from you as a young man, and I firmly believe that all the younger colleagues or colleagues who are first MPs will have something to learn from us which little experience we have, and there are also those who have many. This is another reason why it is very important that the president of parliament will be Ivica Dacic, as he is best taught and what is parliamentaryism and what is politics. I don't want these words of praise to really diminish anyone's value, but you'll understand. Perhaps for the first time, after not a short period of parliamentary service in this discussion, I have a mild temper, it's not a manners for me, but I'm talking about someone who really enjoys my and great respect and great trust. When you talk about friends, it's usually the hardest thing to talk about. What is very important and I believe that the opinion of all Serbian citizens who have shown confidence is now a certain ruling majority that will be established very quickly through the government in Serbia, it is that Ivica Dacic is a man for whom even if you did not vote, you cannot disrespect him or love him. He's a man who doesn't hate himself. In that sense, it is too high to say now that the SPS will vote in favour of its proposal, but I will say once again, thank you first for trusting all of you who supported this proposal by the signatures, and then thank the President of the Republic of Serbia for the trust shown both by the Socialists and Ivica Dacic as an old associate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u71	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u72	I thank you, Chairman. I thought you'd set a break first, and I don't know how much time I'm going to have to speak to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but you're welcome to interrupt me, because it's up to the chairman to determine what the session will look like. I hesitated whether to answer or not to report today, because it is obvious that the vast majority of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will support the choice for the first among the equals, for the proposal we have signed, or for Mr. Ivica Dacic, but I think it is a matter of political culture that the current president of the National Assembly says several sentences, because it could be a malicious part of the public, as they do most often, that silence might be interpreted in some other way. It is something that will be faced and someone who will be president of parliament in a few hours, with numerous prejudices, with bribes, with numerous false news and interpretations of how it is done here in parliament, by those who have not seen either in photographs or where they lived in this life. Incredibly symbolic, today it is six and a half years since I am president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so it is my turn to look back at several discussions and to say what we have really done here in parliament, not what we have left in the part of the public of the Republic of Serbia, which has decided not to simply participate in these elections and disqualify ourselves from Serbia's political life. Because when you don't have MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that means you don't care so much that you represent a part of the citizens who are your political associates. I had the great pleasure and honour of being president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in two terms. I had great support among MPs, as those who support the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, this is popularly said by the ruling majority, although I disagree with that term, but also a large part of the opposition. This has never been talked about in public, because we have an opposition that is more valuable and less valuable in certain media, including some circles outside our country. I think the opposition that participates in the elections is fighting for its vote and whose opinion will be heard more or less and is as valuable in this House as those who have found their way. In my first term, I had the support of even MPs who have defined themselves today not to vote for our proposal in this conference, and I thank Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi for giving me the chance to show in the first term whether I am a good enough politician to lead the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and whether I have the same criteria for one another. The political flossula is that the speaker is told that he is someone who determines how 250 MPs behave and what the spirit of this parliament will look like. I say one of the owners doesn't make spring. You run sessions, you prepare sessions, you try to get everything going in the best democratic tone, but all 250 MPs are responsible for what kind of picture we send to the public, how we behave and how we communicate with each other and whether we have political hearing to hear each other's opinions, but not hearing insults and not hearing about what happened in the last session. No one can say that I am like the chairman who represented here two-thirds of the parliament, I mean that they voted for me, caused MPs of the Dweri Group to join him in the cabinet, harassing him physically and mentally and trying to beat me. It cannot be said that it is good that it is part of the public whose political or SNS is not a cup of tea they drink every morning, to say – well, that's fine, because she is a member of that party as well. I say that we are all a little guilty of the picture that exists about the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in one part of the public who wants to hear us. There are also those who won't hear us, and they reached out in their political struggle after the street, for the torches that were burning here. I have to remind you or tell you what you don't know, because I've been lying in the hospital and being sick with Kovid, that I forgot about my illness that night, and I've called my employees to remove pictures and artistic values from this House, because I care about it. I care that what happened to us as a sideshow happened on October 5th 2000, and that the artistic values of this historic building disappear, not because of me, but because it belongs to the citizens of Serbia. And this building belongs to the citizens of Serbia and this parliament belongs to the citizens of Serbia. It is extremely important that we all fight together to be respected by the citizens of Serbia, not to be interested in the media only when there's been some disgusting incident, fighting, swearing, stupid and unspeakable jokes at the expense of each other and debauchery and everything that's happened in the past few months in front of the building, and it's not physically in front of the building, it's the citizens of Serbia in their eyes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia symbolises democracy in every democratic society, to fight our work, our seriousness, here, that everyone looks at us very differently. If I were to regret someone who didn't want to participate in the election, it would be dishonest. I've been a politician for 30 years, just like the candidate, Mr. Ivica Dacic, for this prestigious place, and I don't regret anyone, because we are political competition and let them behave as they please. Someone thinks they should come in here with the help of the citizens of Serbia, and someone thinks they should go in by force or someone's gonna push them in here and give them power in this country. It's a great past. Many challenges await the president of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I mind political illiteracy when they say – and now it will be easy, almost no opposition. The opposition will be in parliament. The opposition should listen, whether it sits in benches or it will go some other way and there will be great, great pressure on all of us here in the state and in parliament to do as someone else imagines it should be done in our building. I participated in several round tables, most of you who are here participated, and I am glad that we have made significant shifts in the past period and that we have passed several laws in which we have improved the democratic work of Parliament and the elections that we already have behind us. Those who did not participate in the dialogue did not participate either, but were in other places with EU representatives and it was known in advance that they would not participate in the elections not because something was wrong, but they knew very well that they had very little support for Serbian citizens and that probably not even 3% of the censors would win, which would be a general political disgrace for them. And here's my understanding. I don't know how to communicate with that part of society that's not satisfied with this authority? They have the right to do that. I say, one man is not a Parliament, therefore, it should not be expected that one man will be able to change some great things, but rather it is on our hands that some politicians are no longer in this building, and they have made this atmosphere of violence, chaos, swearing, insult and the chairman of the National Assembly, so they resorted even to physical violence against me in the cabinet, where one part of the society that says to themselves that civil Serbia has been silent. The world around me is also part of our society that can say for itself that the civil part of Serbia was appalled by the silence or by the demeaning announcement of violence on our streets that happened here recently. I thank my colleagues, Sandra Christmas, Aleksandra Tomic and Snezani Paunović for looking back and giving me a big compliment, which I have not often listened to in six and a half years, that I have led this Parliament well, not only here in this building, but we have done many things. I take it Dacic's not the kind of guy who likes to fight, but he seemed a little bit like my colleague says I like to fight. I don't like to fight, really, and I've never been the one who started any fight, but I've tried to make order here, which is not easy, because there's an opposition here, there's a major political conflict here. It is not a political conflict in some other segments of politics and elsewhere, and here our political disagreement and misrepresentation of the dialogues that the parties need to conduct in the political life of our country and others are more visible. But to comfort you, there is nothing more beautiful and idyllic in other parliaments, perhaps in some other more twisted way, telling each other the same thing that happened here. Just to praise the truth, I am grateful to all the MPs of the previous calls for their great support in the adoption of the law on the greater presence of the less represented sex, or women here in parliament, and now there are more than 40% of us, and thus we have shown that there have been dialogues with the opposition who wanted dialogue, I will not own that law. The law proposed, amendments and additions, a MP from the DS, came here, we spoke as the biggest party in the country with the president of our party, with the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic, who only asked – why not 50% of women represented on political parties lists? We are as a serious party with our coalition partners in this reform of society and I look forward to the fact that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia there will be more women of good politicians, not women as women, but women who are good politicians and will be able to lead certain resolutions in that future government. Also important segment of parliamentary diplomacy that we have put back in place, while some have criticised us on the streets of Belgrade and some others who took care of us, the 141st Interparliamentary Union meeting, the first after that Tito period of the year I was born, 2,500 MPs from around the world who chose Serbia as a good example of parliamentary practice. It is equally important to me what those in whose society we strive to be equal members of one day, but it is extremely important to me when the two presidents of both Indian or People's Republic of China's Parliaments come or when all the countries from our environment come to the highest level, when it comes from the 150 delegations of 78 of the Parliaments. Well, they had something more important to do at the moment and decided it was most important to be present in Belgrade at that moment and we were the chairman of the session. Something Darko Laketic forgot, which I would ask the future president not to forget to do, and it is interested in all citizens of Serbia, regardless of which political option they support or which people they belong to, it is entirely no matter whether Serbs, Croats, Albanians, Bosniaks, Hungarians, whoever, is interested in continuing the work of the Commission to investigate the consequences of the bombing, the aggression of the NATO pact against Serbia in 1999, the consequences of the health of people and the environment of our country and how Italian soldiers who lived and served in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and Germans lead the disputes. With these committees and commissions, we have established excellent co-operation, so these are NATO members, they can fight that fight, we can and we need to be here in the country, we need to get to the truth, we need to see how many causal relationships there have been and how Serbs die, the Croats die, the Albanians die, and the Bosniaks, who have stayed in that territory. This is a supranational thing, fighting for human health and fighting for a healthy environment. Now, that would be my request to move on in that direction, to the President of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to all of us here in parliament, I want good, successful work, as we have done in the past six and a half years, and I am proud of what we have done. I am proud of what our parliament looked like, and in the previous period, because I do not allow anyone to lecture on it, and this parliament has burned and thrown out all the parliamentary groups, and I think that one of the MPs who can testify, because there is one, in the hall and fought for the interests of their party, maybe even two months and those who have combined 250 points of the agenda, brought the budget of December 31st to, I don't know, 23 hours, to read about it and teach us the lessons that one Parliament should look like. We are one of the best parliaments in the world and we received a compliment at 141st session of the Interparliamentary Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u73	The word has a People's Messenger, the Life of Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u74	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to begin with, as the order requires, to congratulate all of you on your mandates at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that in the next period we will make good laws and good decisions, have effective and constructive discussions, and as I have told you good laws, good decisions will allow for a continued successful fight to preserve our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, will enable a successful continuation of our country's economic development, will enable a successful fight against the Kovid-19 epidemic, but in a way that we will not allow life to stand, but in a way that will ensure on the one hand the safety and health of citizens, and on the other hand, that life, in the conditions of the pandemic, flows in a more normal way. As JS President Dragan Markovic Palma has just said, the JS parliamentary group is pleased to support the election, Mr Ivica Dacic, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Not only because, Ivica Dacic has been our coalition partner for 12 years, we are not because Ivica Dacic, successfully worked in prominent places in the state of Serbia, was also a successful prime minister and interior minister and foreign minister. Not only because Ivica Dacic is a wise, experienced politician, but also because Ivica Dacic is a good man and a tolerated man. I think all of this, Mr. Ivica Dacic is running to be a good president of the National Assembly and a good choice for the president of the National Assembly and good for Serbia. I think the fact was run by both the president of the state and the president of the party that has the most MPs in this House when he ran for the high state office for Ivica Dacic. In fact, there was a discussion here and in public that there are functions that are lower and higher. We simply all know in the political theory that each country is made up of three basic pillars of government, which are legislative, executive and judicial and that they are all equally important. We think that by electing Ivica Dacic for this parliament but also by electing the MPs, the people will send a clear message in the previous parliamentary elections they want our country to go towards. That we will have a very stable legislative pillar of power and that the stability of our country is very important and that all decisions we make and which we will make will go in that direction. In some media, individuals seeking to discredit Ivica Dacic in fact have been demeaning the position of this high home, defaming parliament, demeaning the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and demeaning the Republic of Serbia, because by criticising and demeaning important institutions in our country, they show only one thing, which is that personal ambitions are more important to them than any institution of the state and the state itself. A unique Serbia in its political functioning has always clearly advocated political economic and overall social stability in society. We think that the election of Ivica Dacic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also be a step towards the overall stability. On this occasion, I would simply like to wish Ivica Dacic successful work in the future and all of us in this House and to continue working on the well-being of Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u75	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u76	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, today we elect the president of the National Assembly in this assembly. I'm not going to talk about him because he's well-known, he's been on the public and political scene for a long time, and we don't need to represent him after that scenic performance for our colleagues, dear colleague Palma. I will focus more on what will certainly be one of the most important topics for us as MPs together with our National Assembly president in the coming period. It's about our southern province, of course. Kosovo and Metohija are a matter of strategic importance for the future of the Serbian state and the entire Serbian people, both for the quality and for the improvement of all citizens living not only in the Republic of Serbia but also especially in the region. This is why resolving the Cosmet problem in a peaceful long-term, sustainable way is a vital and national and state issue. A policy led in the previous period will continue in the next undivided unity and joint action of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and its political representatives and the state of Serbia. That's the foundation. Without this fundamental pillar of politics, firstly towards Kosovo and Metohija, there would be no results. In the past period that we have followed as the previous meeting of the National Assembly, and in particular the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, we have faced a number of risks from the disenfranchisement of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, its very poor security, terrorism, the incursion of the parapolitic Albanian forces to the north of Kosovo, ethnically motivated attacks on members of the Serb people, attempts to complete ethnic cleansing, kidnapping of property, killings such as the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, and by taxis, non-fulfilment of the first Brussels agreement, especially the community of Serb municipalities, the international campaign of Pristina in international organisations, until the blockade of talks in Brussels. Pristina's unilateral moves over the past period have been devising the continuation of every discussion and normalisation of the relationship between the two sides, which has practically carried out through the non-execution and obstruction of obligations from dialogue, the adoption of laws that take away the property of Serbs and the Republic of Serbia in the province, the endangerment of the democratic and human rights of the Serbian people and, in particular, their personal property security. Almost daily acts of intimidation and violence are being carried out against Serbs in the province, numerous restrictions on their freedom of movement and against them are being carried out to prevent the return, further ethnic cleansing and endangering the remains of Serbs in the area of KIM. I don't see that these risks will be lost following the survival of the Serbian people's security at KIM in the coming period, that they will disappear. On the contrary, it seems to me that it will be stepped up because of certain trends already seen in Pristina's behaviour. Despite all the challenges and risks we have faced, Belgrade has persistently sought to reach talks with Pristina to sit at the table and solve all problems in a peaceful way, but by reaching a compromise. On the other hand, we didn't have the answer we expected. Pristina's sincere commitment to the negotiations was lacking, we saw a complete absence of any willingness to compromise by Pristina. There was a stalemate in talks between Belgrade and Pristina when taxes were introduced in autumn 2018. Only 20 months later, after Washington's overcompensated political scene in Pristina had a continuation of those talks that may have been at first sight and promised that something could be done, an agenda was agreed, two parallel tracks were agreed. However, we see that when it comes to the realisation of the PSO, Pristina immediately gives up all of this. Despite all these problems we had in talks with Pristina, Belgrade managed to achieve a very dynamic, innovative, highly constructive policy aimed at solving the problem rather than at generating new problems and obstacles to conversation and possible agreements achieved a very significant result. Internationally, 18 countries that have recognised Kosovo as some state have withdrawn recognitions, have prevented membership in several international organisations, unless I am wrong in seven, eight organisations, including what may be the most important membership in UNESCO and Interpol. Belgrade has managed to, where it may have been most difficult to make a very good political breakthrough, which is relations with the United States that undoubtedly force their weapons behind the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, and most of all through the agreement on economic normalisation of the relationship reached in Washington. What is most important in the policy that is being led and which we will lead in the next period, when it comes to our southern province is the full support of Serbia's state of survival of the Serb people at KIM. Without that support, Serbs could not survive at KIM, but would have completed the process of ethnic cleansing. I just want to remind myself of a part of what the state of Serbia has done to help the survival of strengthening security and any other perspective besides the economics that is most important to the Serbian people at KIM. Thousands of housing units have been built for internally displaced persons, returnees, socially endangered households. A health recreational complex "Rajska Banja" in Banjska was built, the construction of reconstructions and the rehabilitation of dozens of kilometers of roads and streets, bridges, overpasses was funded. The dumps were arranged, the water treatment network was reconstructed, the infrastructures were arranged, sports facilities. Agriculture development programmes have been supported by over 1,300 agricultural households, which is of particular importance to the survival of Serbs in KIM for its economic perspective. Two breweries were built and equipped on Zvecan municipality territory. The project of building a return settlement "Sunčana Dolina" on the site Mali Zvečan was financed to create conditions for life and work of nearly 1500 people around 350 families, the work of all media within the Network Most was improved. Today in Kosovo and Metohija, according to the plan and programme of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia, a total of 103 schools, 68 elementary, 35 secondary schools. On the territory of AP KiM we have 17 pre-school institutions and 40 separate departments of pre-school institutions. As part of the University of Pristina with its temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica, ten universities and three higher schools of vocational studies are taught. There's a student housing center. In the territory of AP KiM, two clinical and hospital centres function. One health center is in Gjilan, two homes of health. Daily assistance is given to return families, providing legal protection to the Serb people. These are the results that allowed me not to further list the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Certainly, the results achieved in the dialogue despite different interpretations from the fact that by signing the first Brussels Agreement, Belgrade allegedly recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo are completely different. It is possible to draw from the whole process of political dialogue several main conclusions that cannot be challenged by any daily policy statements. The first conclusion is that by choosing a peace principle for active and committed engagement in the negotiations, the Republic of Serbia has made a kind of strategic surprise. Political dialogue worked in every sense for the interests of the Serbian side, which during the negotiations managed to preserve peace in the province's space, which is most important to us for the survival of the Serb people. However complex, and even non-productive and individual periods in the dialogue, the fact is that during the period of more intense talks, there were no more serious security crises or those that emerged such as the incursion of the parapolitical Albanian forces in northern Kosovo were resolved very quickly. The third conclusion concerns the fact that the engagement of the Republic of Serbia and the political dialogue apparently succeeded in partially amortising one of the uncompromising, irrevocable views of those who support Kosovo's independence. They increasingly demand that negotiations find a comprehensive permanent solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issue, and that it is clear that they no longer consider Kosovo's independence to be so-called, simply done with the done deal, from the completed issue, we have managed to put the Kosovo and Metohija issue back on the agenda. This could have been done with one wise policy that put a peaceful way of resolving everyone, including the most difficult disputes. The stance was many, including the leading Western forces, that the Kosovo and Metohija issue was resolved by a unilateral declaration of independence and that Serbia must agree to this, and even to help achieve Pristina's effective power over the entire province. Albanians wanted to abuse the First Brussels Agreement, hoping to take what was right for them, to manage to establish full control over the North of Kosovo, and then give up forming communities of Serb municipalities. The fourth conclusion that can be drawn, related to the talks Belgrade had with Pristina over the past period, is that the Republic of Serbia has basically managed to fully protect its interest in the province and in the context of European integration, without giving essential concessions. Despite criticisms stemming from the alleged surrender of Serbian institutions to the North of Kosovo, Serbs currently dominate all political, police and judicial institutions and their domination is recognised by both Pristina and international factors. A great deal of time has been spent on whether Serbia has recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo through the First Brussels Agreement, and many have said it has. We argued that these talks and the agreement reached were within the status neutral framework. Who was telling the truth and who was lying? It's easy to see now. If Belgrade's first Brussels agreement recognised the fake state of "Kosovo", which is why representatives of the fake state of "Kosovo" are now asking to discuss only the recognition of "Kosovo" by Serbia in the follow-up of the talks in Brussels. So, just for the sake of the public, they realize who's been telling them the truth all these years, who's cheating on them because of some of their political tricks and points. And finally, the true return of the Republic of Serbia to the decision-making process on Kosovo and Metohija, both in Kosovo and Metohija, which began in 2013 with talks in Brussels, which was carried out to engage on political dialogue, has brought tangible and significant benefits to the Serbian people in our southern province, which I have already provided some information on. So, parallel to the talks with Pristina that we tried to resolve some very important issues, we strengthened and fought for the survival and perspective of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. At the same time, these talks have paved the way for us to improve relations with some Western countries, especially with Washington. In this sense, reaching an agreement on economic normalisation of relations not only opened the way for some infrastructure projects that we consider to be very important for all people living in both the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in some neighbouring countries, not only because the road is open and that our southern province participates in the idea of the "mini Schengen" zone, but because we think that economic progress is something that can lead to the relaxation of political tensions in the future and that it might create a new political environment in which a much more peaceful conversation would be discussed and in which there would be a willingness to compromise and on the part of Pristina. Through the Washington Agreement, Belgrade has managed to significantly improve its bilateral relations with Washington and to ensure that in the coming period, especially if the current administration remains in the White House, it ensures respect for our interests and understanding of our position by Washington. For the first time now, after the Washington Agreement, we are in a position to say that in relations with the world's greatest force, we are no longer a mere object to be dictated, imposed and blackmailed, we are now an entity in these relationships, and that is a huge progress. The agreement on economic normalisation of relations is very important for this progress. Unfortunately, we have major challenges ahead of us, especially in dialogue. Before that, I just want to tell you that in the capacity of the Committee president in the previous term of Kosovo and Metohija, which I have been leading for eight years, I have formed a Working Group that has been working on the collection of facts and evidence of crimes committed by the terrorist criminal formation "the Liberation Army of Kosovo", with no care to assist the work of the specialised prosecution and specialised judicial councils, and in doing so we have made very, very significant shifts and even obtained in written form the gratitude of the then specialised prosecutor. We will continue to work on this plan, because solving crimes and the fate of the missing cannot be unilateral. The path to reconciliation leads to the determination of full truth, no matter who committed the crimes, regardless of the nationality of the criminals. If we want to close this huge gap that exists between Serbs and Albanians, we must also resolve the question of missing persons and determine the truth about the crimes that have been committed. I repeat, it can't be done unilaterally and that only one party blames it. The current state of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina is, in my opinion, in a deep coma. I don't see the prospect of continuing these talks because of Pristina's behaviour. The latest statement by the so-called "premise" in Pristina, Hoti, that there will be no agreement if there is no recognition and if there is no agreement then they will return the fees, leaves no room for any compromise solution. Just to remind you that they are not negotiating at the beginning of the talks to adopt a platform for dialogue with Belgrade, which has three principles: 1) Kosovo's territorial integrity is not being negotiated, 2) Kosovo and Serbia's conflict should end through an agreement on normalisation of relations and reciprocal recognition, 3) an agreement to be in line with Kosovo's "constitution" and should not be intergovernmental. It talks about some kind of war damage, a chair in the UN, is not supported by the two German models, that five EU countries should recognise the self-proclaimed state of "Kosovo". This platform is against dialogue and we see that the whole current position of Pristina is emerging from this platform. Pristina wants to make it impossible to continue talks with Belgrade at all costs and therefore to transfer responsibility to Belgrade and not form a community of Serb municipalities, but rather wants the issue of the Serb municipalities community, or its formation, to enter into a possible agreement on comprehensive normalisation, and that agreement, if achieved, would only be realised if Belgrade recognises the self-proclaimed state of "Kosovo" -- means never. This means that it can never be realized by a Serb community. Our position is that the Serb community must first be realised as agreed, and it is agreed with the executive powers, and then it can be discussed to reach a comprehensive agreement. Finally, respected colleagues, since the issue of Kosovo and Metohija will be of paramount importance, I would like to remind you all of the resolution adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija on 13 January 2013. What I am about to read to you now, only parts, is a framework from which we cannot come out, and that is a message to me as an MP, and I also consider us as the Assembly that there should be a message to both Pristina and the international community, that outside this framework it is not realistic to expect any concessions from the state of Serbia. Seeking to achieve a long-term national goal, to preserve the integrity of state territory, sovereignty, economic development, the protection of the political economic and security interests of the Republic of Serbia in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, as a result of any solution being a general or specific issue on the temporary, transitional or final status of Kosovo and Metohija, on the situation of Serbs in the province or on the protection of Serbian, religious and cultural heritage must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and UN Security Council Resolution 1244. That's the limit. It's a red line under which we can't go. The Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international law, does not recognise the Constitution and the will of citizens and will never recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. The aim of the talks is to create conditions for the Serb community and all other national communities in Kosovo and Metohija that guarantee security and full protection of human rights. The government of the Republic of Serbia is empowered and undertakes to continue dialogue on resolving technical and political issues with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina and representatives of the international community, the future agreements are reached in line with the views, the basic objectives of this resolution, seeking to reach a comprehensive agreement with the PIS representatives in Pristina on which they are now speaking. All powers entrusted as a result of the negotiations to the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina will be confirmed by constitutional law and passed on to the authorities of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Representatives of the Republic of Serbia will seek through negotiations to find an agreed and comprehensive solution for Kosovo and Metohija. The Republic of Serbia is ready to make further concessions to overcome the current situation in relations between the Serb and Albanian people. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia is not ready to make further concessions that could lead to the threat of its state and national interests. The Republic of Serbia has come to the PIS dialogue in Pristina aware of the importance that achieving a mutually acceptable solution for Kosovo and Metohija would have in the context of further accelerated integration of the entire Western Balkans region into the EU. This resolution and the direction, guidelines and objectives of state policy are binding on all state authorities and organisations and can be amended by the only new resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, respected colleagues, we have a framework for what we're going to face in the next period, which is solving the cosmetical problem. I believe that we will succeed in achieving the necessary unity and face this most important issue for both the future and the states of Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u77	The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u78	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, one news, one of the biggest surprises in the media these days -- is on the political scene a new position, or function of SPS leader Ivica Dacic. I don't know why this news is surprising, because everyone knows what kind of caliber a statesman and politician Ivica Dacic is. After all, this function is, according to our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, important immediately below the presidency. Its acceptance of the candidacy, i.e. the acceptance of Ivica Dacic, is another proof that the vast majority of the SPS and our Ivica Dacic are not important functions and chairs, but progress and improvement, as well as the state interest of Serbia ahead of political interest. If anyone knows, can and can run the most legislative body, it's our leader, Ivica Dacic. It has decades of experience as well as results achieved in participation and management in various executive and legislative authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Not to mention, my colleagues have talked a lot about them. In the portfolios he ran, he achieved enviable results especially in the area of foreign policy where he defended Serbia's state and national interests and, with his wise diplomacy, influenced 18 countries to withdraw recognition of Kosovo. Thirty years on a political scene and how he qualified him for this post. After all, thanks to Ivica Dacic's wise policy at the head of the SPS and our party has become a waste of quality personnel, it has a level of continuity of duration. Finally, once again without a doubt, we will choose, hopefully, a man who is a trained and experienced politician who will conduct a good dialogue in this high house and advocate the reputation and integrity of the Assembly. I am convinced that parliament led by Ivica Dacic will work transparently, democratically and responsibly, and all in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you, and I wish all of us successful work.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u79	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u80	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are completing the process of establishing the National Assembly by electing the President of the Assembly, the Vice-President, the Secretary-General, as well as members of the working bodies of the National Assembly, thus fulfilling the primary obligations contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the Law on the National Assembly. I would particularly like to stress that this process takes place within the time limit laid down in the law, and that the Constitution has defined the deadline within which the Assembly must be established. Why am I stressing this? Because in certain media, it's mostly those media with a tycoon sign, there's a certain campaign going on, and I'd say the whole hysteria about how to God's way too long with this job, and why the Serbian government hasn't been elected so far, and why the President of the Assembly has not been elected so far, etc. The paradox is that the same ones who are trying, unsuccessfully trying to challenge Parliament's legitimacy, so they are campaigning in that direction, now, the same ones daily complain that and why so far the National Assembly president has not been elected and why the Serbian Government has not been elected so far. An even bigger paradox, the chairman, is that just those who have boycotted the parliamentary elections today are most concerned with the same parliament and the work of the same parliament. They feared the election, fled the election, feared the election result, hid behind the idea of boycotts, boycotted parliamentary elections, and fortunately the boycott failed, the elections were successful, and today we will complain about when the Serbian government will be elected, when Serbia's parliament will be established. These hypocrites should know that making this kind of, say, responsible decisions is a process that requires both time and patience, caution, but also political maturity. Challenges ahead of Serbia require additional attention and full commitment have not reached the best possible solutions when it comes to the establishment of the National Assembly and the choice of the Serbian government. It is because of these challenges ahead of us that the goals discussed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, which we must achieve in the next period and continue the reforms and the fight for Serbia's interests and the preservation of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, and the fight against the crown of the virus and the preservation of political stability and the continuation of Serbia's economic growth. What I would particularly apostrophe, which is the fight against crime and corruption. A fierce and uncompromising fight against corruption and all forms of crime, especially organised crime, is a prerequisite for Serbia's economic growth and for any further progress in all fields. Zero tolerance towards corruption and the fight against organised crime, with those who robbed and robbed Serbia all high on the list of SNS priorities, the ruling majority in the National Assembly and the future Serbian government. No one in Serbia has the right to rob the property of citizens and to remain unpunished for it. No criminal or tycoon must be protected and will be protected or out of the reach of the judicial authorities, because this is a prerequisite for Serbia's further development and for the future of our children. In the framework of the systematic fight that we are fighting corruption, in the context of the fight against organised crime and terrorism, we have achieved serious results, and no one is trying to challenge any outside or anyone serious from domestic political factors anymore. For the last little over two years, more than 15,000 criminal charges have been filed, of which nearly 2,000 indictments, more than 1,000 have been convicted, and hundreds of people have concluded a plea agreement. A number of proceedings have been initiated against various forms of officials, against judicial officials, against directors of public enterprises, against various executives, against individual presidents of municipalities. The prosecution of organized crime has filed a few dozen charges, when we talk about what happened. high corruption. Four special anti-corruption departments were also established in prosecutors and courts, and a special anti-corruption department was formed at the interior ministry that closely co-operates with all other systems in the anti-corruption chain. I am convinced that this struggle will be intensified in the next period, and that the results will be felt in a very close period of time. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic, has received absolute support from citizens in previous elections, and it is this citizens' support that obliges us to consistently implement the ideas, policies and programmes of the party that the citizens have recognised and what the citizens have voted for in the elections. I would like, the chairman, at the very end, just a few words about the dialogue in our society, because we as the Serbian Progressive Party have shown willingness to conduct dialogue always and in every place. We participated in political dialogue with both parliamentary and, let's say, with extraparliamentary political parties and showed in the act that we want to and that we are ready to adopt other people's proposals. We've shown willingness to reform electoral conditions and make them the best we've ever done. We reduced the censorship, which was also discussed by the head of our parliamentary group, to 3% and directly to ourselves, thus reducing the number of parliamentary mandates. But regardless, I'm proud of what we managed to do, because when we were the opposition, then the government was only working for itself, and there was this fundamental difference between us and them. Today we want to introduce more dialogues everywhere in our society, including in the National Assembly, and this will be seen and seen very quickly and will also be seen by the composition of the working bodies of the National Assembly, but also by the activities of the Assembly Committees, more significant and dynamic than ever before. The MPs will be even more active and more present in the people. More will talk to citizens everywhere and in every place, because that is what the citizens were looking for and that is why the people voted for the list of Alexander Vukic – "For our children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u81	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. SDA Sandzak MPs will not support the election of Ivica Dacic as parliament speaker. From the point of view of citizens, his choice brings us back to the 1990s, both symbolically and in fact, which is just proof that facing the past is what is necessary for this society, but honestly, seriously and factually facing the past. Anything we from the perspective of Bosniaks would have to say about Ivica Dacic as a candidate for parliament's president, he himself said in his xenophobic statements at the expense of Bosniaks and at the expense of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every time someone in this way dealt with Bosniaks and Bosnia in Belgrade, the results were genocide and other war crimes and such rhetoric, I said, and I will repeat a few more times, bringing us back to the 1990s. She so wished that one of these war crimes was committed today, October 22, 28 years ago, in the North, 17 Bosniaks, civilians, citizens of this country who took the bus to work, were kidnapped, tortured and killed just because they were Bosniaks. I repeat again that the rhetoric conducted by Ivica Dacic is returning us to the 1990s, at a time when the Bosniaks of Sandzak were victims of organized state terror. Neither the crime nor the numerous crimes against the Sandzak Bosniaks has been solved so far. And we can see that this is exactly the kind of rhetoric that's being revived today by candidates for Parliament's president. At a time when innocent victims of this crime 28 years after they have not resolved the status of civilian victims of war, when their families do not know what is going on with their remains, when they do not know who is responsible for their murder, we are discussing a candidate for parliament's president who returns that rhetoric to parliament. So, on today's special day, I'm calling and I'm gonna stick to this symbol. After this, there is really no need for us as legitimate representatives of Bosniaks to say anything about a candidate for Parliament's president. I just want to make an invitation to the other representatives of the Bosniak people in this House to deny, especially on this day, support to Ivica Dacic. At least we owe it to the victims and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u83	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u84	Thank you. I am advocating the provisions of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure relating to the dignity of the National Assembly. Dear President, I would like to draw attention to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that for the second time today, we are hearing accusations that are unsuspecting and concerning the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that make no sense. It's the right of every MP to say what he thinks, but if a messenger who speaks disrespects the dignity of the National Assembly, then I really don't know what a man should think, let alone say. Our past is as it is, and everyone in that past has a place for us as MPs of the National Assembly and people with experience can be trusted or not believe whether we are involved or not. But talking about Ivica Dacic in the context of events that were in the 1990s, in the way he spoke to the MP, is really offensive and doesn't make any sense. And to trust the MP on the words, and that examination of the past, here, today Mr. Dacic mentioned that Mr. Ugljanin was a member of the government in which Ivica Dacic was president. I didn't hear him say a word about Dacic in the context in which the National Assembly heard him today. It is a shame of the MPs at such a significant session, when the first man is elected by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to speak in such a way about this man, not to mention events, okay, it is his right, but to mention Ivica Dacic in that context does not really make sense. It is not true and it is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u85	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u86	Yes, as a proposing representative. Obviously, we need to return to the 1990s in 2020, not by the desire of candidates for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but by the desire of those who are thus trying to profit politically. So, from the point of view of the citizens of Ivica Dacic returns in the 1990s. What did Ivica Dacic say in parliament today that it could be interpreted as wanting Serbia back in the 1990s? What line is that? Pull out a stenogram, tell me which sentence did the candidate for National Assembly President Ivica Dacic return Serbia to the 1990s? On the other hand, mentioning events is a legitimate right and there is Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic absolutely right. The crime, every crime, we have said many times so far, we have adopted the Srebrenica Declaration here in Parliament and we have said that we worship all the victims and that every family deserves the truth, but I ask the question – and what about the Serbian victims? I have not heard that any of the colleagues who mentions the victims today, who mentions the crimes, have in no way mentioned any Serbian sacrifice, although I respect everything. Do the families of Serb victims deserve the truth? I do not dispute, if there were events in the '90s we should finally get to the truth and we have always advocated it, but what has Ivica Dacic encouraged today, how has Ivica Dacic encouraged today and the previous days to talk about it? It's said of BiH. In what context? Because Ivica Dacic insisted that BiH make its position clear – do you recognise or do you not recognise the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo? What does that have to do with the victims? On the other hand, in the '90s, and today is 2020, do you think you can fool citizens? You can't. In 2020, the citizens said what they think about politics and Alexander Vukic and what they think about Ivica Dacic's politics, I'm talking about the 90s. The Serbian Progressive Party is the absolute winner of Serbia's parliamentary election, and Ivica Dacic as the list holder of the SPS is a political option along with JS, which is the second-in-a-row political option on Serbia's political scene. In no way was it intended to warm up passions. On the contrary, I said that the goal is peace, stability, good neighbourly relations, reconciliation, prosperity and try to find out what is common interest in all of this, but that in this way you speak at a time that is very important for Serbian parliamentarianism, a session that is very important for Serbian parliamentarianism, when we choose Parliament's president, when we choose parliament's leadership, and you're trying to profit politically in such a cheap, cynical, hypocritical way that doesn't speak of Ivica Dacic, it's just talking about those who try to do it all the time here in parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u87	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret the sacrifices in the North. I'm sorry I lost it myself in that war. Democracy in one country is primarily valued by the laws that have national minorities in the country. I'm the one who in the '90s was trying to make those rights bigger. I was against the war. I even had a joint parliamentary club with MPs from Raska, Muslims, and later they became Bosniaks. I had a joint club at the time of the fiercest wars, just enough to show what my resistance to this war and those victims was. I'm sorry about the North. Because of Severina, Dragutin Dragicevic was sentenced to 20 years, Djordje Sevic to 15 years of age, Oliver Krsmanovic to 15 years of age, Milan Lukic was extradited to The Hague tribunal. I think they're a little punished for embarrassing the Serb family and the Serbian name. That doesn't mean that our minorities today have fewer rights. Let's remember the crimes committed by the BiH military, possibly Bosniaks, at St. Nicholas's in Josianica. 56 people were killed, out of 21 women and three children to ten years of age. No one paid for it. I pray to the Bosniaks whose voice is worth 35% more than mine, because it is some kind of positive discrimination, not to forget that fact and to demand strongly that the criminals of their name and their kin be punished in the same way that I ask that those who have already been punished be punished. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a Sarajevo story, a story that undermines BiH itself. If you say it's a Republika Srpska genocide, you're actually driving her out of BiH. I'm not making her. It doesn't even make her a Milorad Dodik whose attitudes I sometimes disagree with. It is driven by those from Sarajevo who have given themselves the right to elect a representative of the Croats and who are constantly claiming to be a Republika Srpska genocide. We can turn the story around. I can say that the genocide was committed in Srebrenica but over Serbs because 2,000 Serbs lived in Srebrenica in 1991 and 1992, and in July and the unfortunate 1995 entry of the Serb army into Srebrenica found one person of Serbian nationality, an 80-year-old Djuka. What should we say about the sunset where the judge was slaughtered? What about Naser Oric? Why sometimes they don't say that Naser Oric should be condemned as I say these should be condemned even more because they have disgraced the Serb tribe and the Serbian name? So much for that. What I'm saying is that democracy is not about the election of Mr. Dacic or the other Dacic, to the opposition to recommend an imperial product. She can't be forced out, forced. She's got to pop in. They have defined themselves for something else, and today the composition of this Assembly is chosen not only by those who voted and voted, but also by those who did not do so in one way or another, by their own free will and by the address of Dragan Gilas and Šolak. He who does not go out to the elections gives his kind of unsigned authority to those who go out to the elections to decide on his behalf whom they will transfer their sovereignty to, and so the people have decided. This composition depicts the mood of those who went to the elections, but also the mood of those who did not want to go to the elections and thus made such a composition of the National Assembly. No one is to blame except for those who recommended and who in one part were obedient. We have no problem with the opposition. We have a problem with Solakov and Gilas's business. Did I, Mr. Milicevic, warn you of that in the last two years? I also told REM there was no alleged reconciliation with the opposition. What do they want? They want to create such a media landscape that changes under pressure come from the outside, that Serbia cannot crash from the outside unless someone can help from the inside is found. They call for a kind of conflict. In conflict with ourselves in that conflict, we certainly lose, and that is why they seek bread without sowing. No bread without wheat. Today, the peasants are probably finishing a harvest of corn and trying to sow. No bread without seeds. If you want to eat delicious bread, you must thank the one who sowed the wheat. If you want to eat a ripe fruit, you have to thank whoever planted it. The election is a kind of sowing and planting. What we have planted is nothing, and with it we are going out before the people and the people before us. We must protect the people. That's why we're chosen. In particular, we must protect the poor, those who have lost their jobs, who are underpaid, etc., who have lost their dignity, without their families, etc. And it has various moral consequences. There's so much that's happened. A lot of drugs, because people didn't have a business, but this one, a lot of crime went down because of these criminals who call themselves elite. They have 24 unregistered channels, they're talking about no media freedom. I say the media in Serbia is too free. Imagine a country where you have 24 fake cross-border channels. How many times have I warned you about this? You did, I told you what you'd have in front of the congregation. You had nine cameras set up, I said it was the media that should lead to the revolution, because they otherwise cannot win power. It can be a revolution, but every revolution is proof in 2000. After that, there is no such thing as red tape and poverty that is unsustainable to see. We can't let that happen. Look how many commercials are going on those media. I was counting. In just one movie, it goes 20 minutes, it's 1,200 seconds just five euros, six thousand euros in two hours, times 30 days 180 thousand on one film alone, times 12 months, three million times 24 channels, now they've started playing Serbian commercials on Fox channels. Imagine in America going to Serbian commercials. It's a crime that REM sees silently because they whine, constantly that there's no freedom of the media, whine that Solak and Gilas would rob SBB, Total, etc. That's why there's a cry on Telecom. They asked for a boycott of the election, we don't have a problem with the opposition, we have a problem with a gang headed by Solak and Gilas. We're dealing with them. We need to deal with the mob. We should rule, we're legislators. But we must make sure that the law is implemented, that we monitor it, not that we implement it, but that we as a representative body, as a legislative body, make sure that the laws that we have passed and implemented. The Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Advertising, the Convention on Cross-border Channels, that must be respected. Otherwise, it gives birth to the mob. The media mob that's tearing down power. There must be a force of law here, not a law of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u89	The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u90	I am not John's esteemed chairman. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic is right when she says that only one who does not know much about political life can say that the job of Parliament's president will be easy. Nothing at the end of your life, if you're going to be serious and responsible is easy. But the work of Parliament's president in this session will certainly be different in the coming period. It's gonna be different because there won't be a strange man in the O.R. who likes to talk to a rock that turns out to be a cabbage stone. Who tries the flag of the state to break down the door and break into the assembly where he's an MP. There won't be a fascist pack that ripped up microphones while screaming at the president of the Assembly, who was breaking into the cabinet, twisted his hand, I guess, to show their democratic potential or to show how they see the state, how they see democracy, how they see parliament's functioning. There will also be no longtime Prime Minister of the province, known for the fact that children with developmental disturbances have been essentially kidnapped by money for them, who marked his performance in this parliament by cursing their mother to MPs on the other hand. There won't be any of those guys who were here to protect the jobs of the people now talked about by counterpart Risticevic. And that was their only task, the essential collapse of the state of Serbia, wherever they can and the struggle for the positions of their bosses, financiers, employers, call it what you will. So, when Serbia raises its dedicated industry, they start a series of nonsense in the hall of this home and a series of attacks so that the dedicated industry starts to lose step and the only result of their madness is that Serbia loses jobs it has already received in favour of some that have not received, from neighbouring Bulgaria. It's their work, it's the result of their behavior here. These people, by the people's decision, are gone in this room. I cannot accept criticism or attitudes, call it what you will, that this is a SNS party congress or that the Assembly looks like a SNS party congress for the simple reason that the SNS party congress counts more than 5,000 people, one. Two, the people decide how many people will sit and from which parties in this house. Each of us individually by rounding the number on the ballot and nothing more than that, what we want intimately, is another thing, but the people will decide whether there will be 120 SNS MPs, 20 SNS MPs, 150 SNS MPs or no SNS MPs here. We cannot be responsible for the fact that within the tycoon clan of Gilas and Jeremic there has been a struggle for supremacy, there has been a struggle for who will be the head of this organized group, so since they couldn't resolve this battle differently, they decided not to go to elections and so all others include what they're talking about with the stone, make them run out of funding funds, and that for every thing they need, and with their hand out, they come to them to share some dinar, that they share some euro for an account, for some action, for what or for this. What does that have to do with us? What did we contribute to? Their within the coalition, if it is still called a coalition, the story, their mutual capture of the vote, their mutual takeover of party personnel, their mutual takeover of the municipal boards, has led them to conclude that it is better for them not to go to the elections, because it will guarantee absolute supremacy than other political parties in the bloc. And they did what they planned, here they are not here. I thank them for that, and I sincerely want them to continue with their policies. These days they say it's a winning policy, I ask them to keep winning, to win 2022 and not go back to the election, to stay home again, because it's best for Serbia. On the other hand, and the result that the people will give them will not be very different. As far as the party model is concerned, as I recall, I learned little about it, if I'm wrong, I'd like to be corrected, it's not impossible, that there are mass political parties, and contrary to them, as I remember there are people's political parties, and the fundamental difference is that these masseuses were mainly created as left-wing political options that belonged to a large number of people, because they supported themselves from their membership fees. On the other hand, human resources are financed by tycoons, industrialists, etc. If it's some kind of SNS grudge that's a mass political party, let me tell you right now that we'll never become a tycoon party and never be financed by tycoons. Never. There are these tycoon parties, and here you can see, the personnel, the chosen, the false elites that today publishes in their newspapers how the advancers negotiate and kidnap the state land in Bacakh, Srem and Baranja. I don't know if these people know where Baranja is, I know that Baranja declared joining the Kingdom of Serbia in 1918. Unfortunately for me, after 1945, some people drew boundaries differently, so that Baranja stayed in Croatia and now I don't understand how the elite thinks to explain it. In any case, Parliament's trip is solely responsible for the people in Serbia. That's how it was and that's how it's gonna be. No one else, no strangers, no tycoons, no one else. Only the people. What is important and what I wanted to say again, Mr. Martinovic spoke of it, so important challenges are ahead of us, difficult decisions are ahead of us, very difficult times have been caused, above all, by Kovid who led to the whole world’s economy stagnating or falling. Those who can talk about stagnation are happy and these are the happy economies, mostly the fall. We are fortunate that thanks to the decisions made in the previous period, our economy is successfully struggling with what is today a challenge. So, the fight against the crown, the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, which was discussed by counterpart Drecun, for the protection of Serbia's interests in Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against crime and corruption, and finally for this evil and that monster to stand by the neck, to preserve Serbia's military neutrality as something that Serbia is proud of and jealous of and therefore strengthens our army, so we are trying to send a very clear message to anyone who would eventually try to influence Serbia's change in its course, saying it will not be easy and easy, so we are continuing reforms, so we are fighting for further economic growth. To this end, the partner must also be the Serbian parliament. Maybe someone doesn't like me calling him Serbian, but I don't know what else to call him. So it's the Assembly that has to go through reform laws, where we're going to discuss and discuss the models that are ahead of us, where we're all going to try to find the best solutions together and finally apply those solutions. As far as the candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, he is not in the O.R., but I have no doubt he will manage the microphone well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u91	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the agenda points of this session as soon as possible. It's the deadline. Dear and Dear People's MPs, before we continue our work, I ask that the National Assembly in accordance with Article 279. The Rules of Procedure shall establish the resignation of a member of the Government. You received the resignation of a member of the Government of Ivica Dacic, we received it in material, at the post of First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. On the basis of Article 153. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). The Government Act and Article 270. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly finds that Ivica Dacic resigned as First Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and stopped working in the government on the day of his resignation. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u92	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I wanted to take advantage of it for a while, but it would have been if we had agreed, colleague Risticevic, so I didn't use the right to reply, but now I want to say what I thought. But before that, as a proposing representative, just a few sentences. Allow me. A colleague of Jovanovic is absolutely right when he says it is a shame that someone in today's session says this parliament looks like a SNS congress. This parliament is a picture of the electoral will of the citizens. Whether someone liked it or not, 21st citizens said clearly what they think about political options, what they think about coalitions. The result of these elections is visible today in parliament. Any other interpretation and any other finding is a violation of dignity and a reputation for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I am trying to say is that, in spite of all this, I think that we have had one constructive debate and that this debate first and foremost confirms the willingness to preserve dignity and to preserve the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that it is a confirmation of the willingness of all MPs to come to what I have already talked about through dialogue, and these are the most qualitative legal solutions that will be in the best interest of Serbian citizens. Because, as I said, dialogue is of the utmost importance and importance, dialogue needs both the sea and the dialogue and the policy must be conducted in parliament, not on the street. There is room in parliament for those for whom citizens have assessed it in the elections. I would like to thank another colleague who supported the president's candidacy for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic. I also want to thank those colleagues who said they didn't want to and that they wouldn't vote for Ivica Dacic as a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, simply that's their legitimate right and that's democracy and it wouldn't be good if we always thought the same thing, because if everyone thought the same thing, they wouldn't think enough. Today, a fellow SNS colleague, I think he started, spoke very precisely and clearly of six principles discussed by the President of the Republic. I think it's very important and important. I think that each of us MPs should be prepared to do everything in his power to help realise these six principles, because that is, I repeat, of the utmost importance and importance for Serbia's future and for the future of each citizen Serbia. Someone said it wasn't the job of the president of parliament she used to be. I said in the opening statement that it seems to me that one part of the opposition is trying literally from the moment it was announced that Ivica Dacic will be a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, downplaying and degrade the role and function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although not realizing that this is not a third, but another function of importance, and that he will be an actor of a number of topics that are of great importance and importance. Of course, colleagues who have asked the question have no dilemma, the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will always be open to all MPs and we do not share them with MPs and MPs of the opposition and we do not share them in whether they belong to the Bosniak national minority or to any other minority. We are all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is important that colleagues who have just spoken do so. Of course we're going to launch democratic processes from a dead end. Someone said it wasn't a topic today, but I have to mention, someone said, by any chance, whether or not it was malicious, that Serbia would recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I don't know if anyone else in Serbia believes in such a finding, whether a Serbian citizen today, after what happened during the talks with President Tramp in Washington, believes in such a finding after leaving behind that famous 10 point. Is it not clear to no one that someone will pressure Serbia to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that it is a waste of time? Although months ago we had the opportunity to listen from different opposition circles, call opposition circles, that President Aleksandar Vukic would accept and recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Here, it turned out, it proved specifically in America, in a direct conversation with the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump. My colleague Rističević, you're absolutely right, you've talked about it, I've talked about it, we've talked about media freedom here in parliament, we've talked about media freedom, we've agreed a lot about how certain opposition circles see freedom of the media, and I've said so many times, you know what it looks like, you're crying about media in the media, and you're looking at the media -- if you're present in the media, then the media image is perfect, and if you're not in the media, then the media image is disastrous. Excuse me, how come you're in the media if you're boycotting the election and you're an extra-parliamentary party? Will you explain to me where that, in which European state, someone who does not participate in parliamentary elections gets media space? Just give me one example and nothing more. They are not interested in election conditions, of course, colleagues Risticevic, who are only interested in a few things, which are media, public service, REM and RTS, so that they can re-create the psychological awareness of citizens. And you're absolutely right. At the very end, I have an obligation to thank, as someone who, in the previous session, had an extremely good co-operation with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, for everything she had done in the previous two terms for parliament, for trying to establish a dialogue at all times in relation to the position and opposition, which she had an understanding of it, and yet one part of the opposition had no understanding of it, it was not your fault. It was perfectly natural and logical to accept your call at the beginning of last year, so if there are problems, we could have talked about it all here in parliament. We didn't need mentors. Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic, for your cooperation and for everything we've done together, I hope, we've managed to do in the previous period of time and I have as much as I could as your vice president. I am also taking the opportunity to thank my distinguished colleagues Marinkovic and Arsic, whom I have had excellent cooperation with, I hope that we will continue this cooperation now through the parliamentary clubs. At the very end, I am once again taking the opportunity to invite you to confirm what is already confirmed by the signatures, which is 233 signatures, to vote in favour of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to move together to realize what is crucial, which is very clear and precisely defined six principles, six key points, and the 2020-2025 programme, because this is Serbia's future. Many mind that Serbia today is economically strong, many mind that Serbia today has a clear perspective of development, but let them criticise, criticism for criticism remains without political points, and only the results are noticeable and visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u93	I am concluding the search on the proposal for a candidate for National Assembly President. Consent of the power specified in Article 9(5). Rules of Procedure, I am setting out a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly with only one candidate, and that is Ivica Dacic. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search and since it is in agreement with Article 9(5) of the Convention, Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 10(1) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of the MPs (Article 10(2)). Rules of Procedure. I propose that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote - by a call from the MPs. I am voting on the proposal that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote - by a call from the MPs. I conclude the vote: for – 217 against – two abstentions – there is no vote – 219, no vote – 10, of the 229 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has decided that the election of the president of the National Assembly is carried out by a public vote - by the call of the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by a public vote, the vote should be held by the call of the MPs, Article 10(2). Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call, and, according to that provision, the Secretary-General, or Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, shall call on the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name. Each appointed Messenger speaks the word: "for", "against" or "abstained". The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent and does not want to vote. The Secretary-General, or Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. Before we go to the vote, I remind you that according to Article 104, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, found that the National Assembly elected by a majority of the votes of all MPs by the National Assembly president, which means that a MP who received most of the votes of all MPs was elected to the National Assembly. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Ivica Dacic to be president of the National Assembly. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u94	Avramov Andrijana – za; Alavan Slobodan – za; Alexić Zagorka – za; Andrić Svetozar – za; Arsić Veroljub – za; Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – za; Acković Dragoljub – za; Bajatović Dušan – absent; Bajrami Arđend – absent; Bakarec Nebojša – za; Bandur Miloš – za; Bariš Dragan – za; Baroš Nenad – za; Bozevac Muamer – za; Božica Ana – za; Bošić Mladen – za; Branković Minčić Dragan – za; Broz Josip – za; Bulatović – za; Žažažaža – Valić – Valić – Valić – Zalja Sandra – Za; Za; Bojanić – Za; Bošković Mladen – Zaljan – Za; Za Bošković Mladen – Zalić (Dusan Bajatovic: Can I vote? ) (People's MPs of the SNS Group in voice: Can't. (Dusan Bajatovic: What can't? Can I vote? )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u95	I am informing the MPs of a little patience as the results are gathered, that we rest a little each and every one of us in their place. [[after breaks]] Since we held a vote to elect the President of the National Assembly by a call, I am finalising the vote, and I am announcing the results of the vote: of the 226 MPs who joined the vote for the National Assembly president, 225 MPs voted against – one MP, abstaining from voting – there are no such persons, zero results. Based on our vote as MPs, I find that candidate Ivica Dacic received most of the votes of all the MPs and that the National Assembly for National Assembly President has elected MP Ivica Dacic. Let me congratulate Mr. Ivica Dacic on his election as president of the National Assembly of Serbia, on your own and on his personal behalf, with a desire to achieve the results of the work better than we have these years. I guess the crown will pass, so we'll be able to do better and more. I ask the President of the National Assembly to take over the chair of the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to most sincerely thank all of you who have supported my choice of high office as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say to those who have not voted or opposed that this is the National Assembly of all citizens and all MPs and that the only thing I ask of all MPs is that we have mutual tolerance for different opinions, with respect for political differences, with a desire to work in the best interests of the future of Serbia and our citizens. I also want to thank, honestly, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the largest party, the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandr Vukic, who did not have to make such a proposal, given the election results, but respecting our common goals and the common political struggle we have had these eight years, I thank him for his proposal to be president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For every state-run politician, it is the greatest honor to be the head of the highest representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. We draw our authority here from the people's will and people's trust, and so I would like to say that our task will be to contribute to political stability and unity in Serbia, that only a united Serbia can respond to the challenges that await us and that, in accordance with this task, as one representing the National Assembly, it is to help the Assembly protect its reputation, its role, its integrity, its dignity and, of course, our best possible way of achieving our highest legislative and constitutional authority in our country. So once again, I really thank you for your great support, for signing the candidacy for my election and for voting. I want to thank Smilja Tishmi, who chaired as the oldest MP. I would especially like to point out, not because she was on my election list, because she is not a member of the SPS, she was still at the head of the Association of Children Campers from the Independent State of Croatia. I don't know if a child camper from the Ustasha camps ever presided over the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in history. She's 91 years old, and I apologize, Smiljo, which I said years ago, I may have made a little mistake, showed a lot more energy, desire and will to work in Serbia's interest not only by running the work of this Assembly in the past period, but by participating with me as foreign minister in creating the first exhibition on Ustasha camps in the UN building after World War II. She didn't have a hard time doing it at this age, and that's why I really want to thank her most sincerely for pushing this job that may have been different for her, than she did in her life, even though she did, she was an MP 60 years ago. I wasn't born then. And she was the deputy mayor of Belgrade, Djurica Jojkic. Also, I want to say once again, of course, that I have already said that I came to the Assembly in 1992 and was an MP in all the mandates of the Federal Assembly since then, and later to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For me, it's a homecoming, or a homeland, as if someone could say so. I interpret this as a great honor. You know that I was both the Prime Minister of Serbia and the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and for the first time the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. The president of the National Assembly is the highest function I have ever performed. It is a special honor for me, and I will make every effort to achieve our mandate with all of you, particularly in the interests of all Serbian citizens, and not just the parliamentary clubs that we represent. That's why I'm glad they voted for me and Broz and the King. I'm a bit of a joke, of course, but I'm gonna need time to get used to the technique, because when I was an MP, it was voted manually, and so, with that apology, let me say, an apology because I'm going to need more time to get used to this technology, we move on to the realization of the agenda. We move to item 3 of the agenda - the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia before we move to the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that he is a member of 14. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are prescribed that the National Assembly determines the number of vice presidents on the proposal of the National Assembly president. I propose that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice-presidents in this meeting. This proposal will be made known before we move to the vote on the proposed candidates. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 15. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received a proposal for six candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a proposal from the vice presidents of the National Assembly. As you have seen, National Assembly Vice-Presidents are proposed MPs: - Dr Vladimir Orlic, selected from the Election List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ - FOR OUR DEC, - Stefan Krkobic, selected from the Election List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ - FOR OUR DEC, - Radovan Tvardić, selected from the Election List ALEXANDAR ŠAPIĆ, WIND FOR SRBIJA, - Marija Jevdić, selected from the Election List IVICA DAČIĆ - The Socialist Party of Serbia, Unique Serbia - Dragan Marković Palma, - Elvira Kovač, elected from the Election List of Vojvodjan Hungarians - Istvan Pastor and - Muamer Zukorlic, elected from the Elvira Marković Palma, select from the Elvira Kovac, elected from the Election List of Law and the Right of Justice of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Makor. Since, according to Article 16(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposing representative, has the right to explain the proposal, and I would like to ask the proposing representative if he would like to explain the proposal of the Vice-President of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) Mr Martinovic, as a proposing representative, has declared that he does not want to explain the proposal. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 16(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a hearing on the proposal for candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the words of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. As I announced, before we move to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to establish the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly. I'm putting on a vote to propose that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice presidents. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that a total of 228 MPs voted for – 220, against – zero, with abstention – zero, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it has six vice presidents. We continue our work and move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly. Allow me, according to Article 16(5). Rules of Procedure, I set out a list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, in the alphabetical order of the last name. According to the proposals submitted, I am setting out the following list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1. Muamer Zukorlic, 2. Marija Jevdić, 3. Elvira Kovac, 4. Stefan Krkobic, 5. Dr. Vladimir Orlic, 6. Radovan Tvardisic. I remind you, according to Article 17(1). The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, shall the National Assembly, on a proposal from the President, decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it is voted by the call of MPs. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by a public vote, i.e. by a call from the MPs. I put this proposal to the vote and ask the MPs to press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: a total of 229 MPs are present, for – 224, against – one, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly decided, by majority, that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be made by a public vote, i.e. a call from the MPs. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly should take place by public vote, it is, in that case, Article 17(2). Rules of Procedure are prescribed that if the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by reference. In accordance with the provisions of Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure can be voted on as many candidates as the election of vice presidents and that is between candidates whose names are listed on the candidate list. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 131. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure of public voting by a call and that, in accordance with that provision, the Secretary-General, i.e. the Deputy Secretary-General, calls on the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name, the MPs who approach the vote say the full name and name of the candidates for which they vote, the President shall repeat the name and name of the MP who voted and his or her statement, or determines that he is absent or does not wish to vote, the Secretary-General, or the Deputy Secretary-General of the People's Parliament or his/her absence with his name on the list. I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 104(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to vote mostly on all MPs. With that in mind, I would like to put the motion to vote for the vice presidents of the National Assembly to be elected: 1. Muamer Zukorlic, 2. Marija Jevdić, 3. Elvira Kovac, 4. Stefan Krkobic, 5. Dr. Vladimir Orlic, 6. Radovan Tvardisic. I would ask the Secretary-General, or the Deputy Secretary-General, to make the call of the Members of the People by the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u98	Avramov Andrijana – za; Alavanja Slobodan – za; Aleksić Zagorka – za; Andrić Svetozar – za; Arsić Veroljub – za; Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – za; Aković Dragoljub – za; Bajatović Dušan – za; Bajrami Arđend – absent; Bakarec Nebojša – za; Bandur Miloš – za; Barišović Dragan – za; Baroš Nenad – za; Bačevac Muamer – za; Božica Ana – za; Božiković Mladen – za; Branković Dragan – za; Broz Josip – za; Bolatinović – za; Žažažiža – Žaža Ža – Žažaža – Žažaža – Žažaža – Žažaža – Ža – Ža – Ža – Ža – Žažić Slavenko – za; Uri dr Emese – za; Urošević Milan – za; Fehratović Jahja – absent; Fila Toma – za; Filipović Nenad – za; Filipović Sr. Za; Filipovski Dubravka – za; Fremond Arpad – za; Hodžić Mirsad – absent; Čamagić Aleksandra – za; Čaapić Ana – za; Čotrić Aleksandar – za; Šapić Aleksandar – absent; Šormaz Dragan – za; Šukalo Adam – za;
ParlaMint-RS_2020-10-22-0.u99	We'll wait just a few minutes to add up the results, or count the votes. After the vote, I conclude the vote and approach the results. The proposed candidates received the next number of votes, Muamer Zukorlic, Marija Jevdzic, Elvira Kovac, Stefan Krkobibic, and Dr Vladimir Orlic 224 votes. Radovan Tvrdisic, due to this one vote, 225. Since the candidates received most of the votes of all the MPs, I find they were elected vice presidents of the National Assembly. Let me congratulate them on their choices and ask them to take their seats next to the president of the National Assembly. I want to thank the youngest MPs for their efforts so far. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are moving to the fourth item of the agenda – a proposal for the appointment of the General Secretary of the National Assembly, in line with the agenda. As you know, which is prescribed by the highest constitutional and legal acts of our country, the first session includes the selection of all these bodies and persons and the verification of the mandate. Accordingly, you received a proposal from the president of the National Assembly to appoint Veljko Odalovic as Secretary General of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, if they wish, with a number of MPs. I am opening a hearing on the motion for candidates for the appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly. As a promoter, I do not want to explain, given that Veljko Odalovic was already the Secretary General of the National Assembly, it seems to me from 2008 to 2012. As far as I'm concerned, there are no reports. Since there are no reports, I'm asking if they want the President's word, or if they want the heads of the group, or if they want someone who hasn't yet used the law. If not, I would like to conclude the search and before the vote, I would like to remind you that, according to Article 21, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the General Secretary of the National Assembly were appointed if most of the number of MPs voted in favour of the proposal, meaning, on the same principle as the president or vice president was elected. I am voting on a proposal to appoint Veljko Odalovic as Secretary General of the National Assembly. Please plead. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing that a total of 224 MPs voted, with a vote of 217, was not voted by seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of the total number of MPs, has appointed Veljko Odalovic as Secretary General of the National Assembly. Allow me to, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate Veljak Odalovic on his appointment as Secretary General of the National Assembly. I'm asking the secretary general to take office and take his place. Congratulations, Veliko. We're moving on. 5th item of the agenda – The selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly. You have received a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I want to remind you of that old provision about how many hours you have to discuss, or discuss. I ask the parliamentary groups to apply for the discussion, if they wish to, or to apply for the word of the MPs if they so wish. I am opening a single search in accordance with Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure. Since I'm the promoter, I don't need to explain all these proposals because, as you know, all these proposals are part of a deal between MP clubs and parliamentary groups. On the basis of the already traditional ways in which the number of committees and seats belonging to committee presidents, or members of committees, political parties, or clubs, are determined, corresponds to the number of elected MPs. Accordingly, there is no need to explain it, and once again since I have not received any notice that there are any interested in the debate, I conclude the search. Before I ask if the heads or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of the law want a word? (No) Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 24. The Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly shall be decided in general by a public vote. Members and deputies of the Committee shall be elected if the majority of the total number of Members of Parliament voted in favour of the proposal for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Thank you. I'm closing the vote. The total vote was 224. The vote was 220, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, adopted a proposal for a decision by a number of MPs, in general. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare it in the day of the vote. According to these regulations of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Enis Imamovic, at a session on October 22, 2020, pointed out at 10 o'clock and 25 minutes to the violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure, and in relation to Rule 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether certain members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured and please press the corresponding key. Thank you. I conclude the vote: a total of 220 voted, three voted against – 40 did not vote 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided, most of the votes, that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Enis Imamovic, at a session on October 22, 2020, pointed out at 11 o'clock and 37 minutes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure without citing a member to whom the injury relates. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Thank you. I conclude the vote: a total of 218 voted, zero voted against – 16, 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that no injured Rules of Procedure in this case. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to immediately inform you that, in accordance with the previous agreements that we had with the SNS, it is envisaged that tomorrow it will be delivered by the parliamentary club, or the parliamentary clubs that will make the proposal, the proposal for a law on ministries and, possibly, other relevant acts, so that we can approach the formation of a new Government of the Republic of Serbia, or before that session on the choice of government, we have to hold another session at which we will decide on the Ministry Act. As we discussed, this session will most likely be held on Saturday, so I ask all MPs to keep that in mind, and in the course of tomorrow you will have more full information. I would also like to inform all members of the College that exists in the Rules of Procedure, and the College I have read makes up the presidents of Parliament clubs and vice presidents of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I will schedule a session of the College before the session of Parliament on Saturday. Thank you again for showing us your trust and closing the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. I thank you. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 155 MPs attend the session. It's over now, but it was a record from half an hour ago, about. Also, I'd like to ask you, I'd like to begin our sessions at exactly 10:00 p.m., as scheduled. That means you'll be here at exactly 10:00 p.m. so we can have a quorum to work on, because I'm not going into the O.R. until I'm informed there's a quorum. Anyway, I'd also like to say that we're going to try to set certain rules, when the break is during the day, as far as it's concerned, that you have at your disposal, that you can plan a working day. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. I would ask you, to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., to insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 212 MPs present in the hall at the moment. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there is a majority of the total number of MPs, there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Saturday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. Sixty-sixty-seven MPs of the "Alexandar Vukic – for our children" group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on ministries submitted to the National Assembly on 23 October 2020. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Thank you. A total of 214 MPs voted, for – 209, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic suggested putting the draft decision on termination of office and appointment in the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 October 2020, on an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Thank you. 214 MPs voted for – 211, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Secretary General of the National Assembly proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda for the appointment of the deputy general secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 October 2020. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. Thank you. A total of 216 MPs voted for – 213, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint, principled, uniform search be carried out on all these three points of the agenda: the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys, the Proposal for a decision on the termination of office and appointment for the RIK and a proposal for appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: a total vote – 218, for – 214, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, I would like to put the draft agenda in general on the basis of Article 93(3). It's a 15-second vote on the Rules of Procedure, so I'm waiting. Thank you. I conclude the vote: a total of 218 voted, for – 214, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2020, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Proposal for a Law on Ministrys; Proposal for a decision on termination of office and appointment in the Republic Election Commission and Proposal for appointment of Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint, principled, single search, on proposals for acts from the agenda in points one, two and three, and before opening a joint, principled and unique search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 192. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint, principled, single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Ministry, which was submitted by 167 MPs of the "Alexandar Vucic - for our children", the Proposal for a decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović and the proposal for the appointment of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly, who was submitted by the Secretary General of the National Assembly. Does the proposing representative, or the proposings, want a word? No, the suggestions are to remind Mr. Martinovic and Odalovic, they don't want a word. Do the officials of the committees want a word?
