ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73795	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Second Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the state of emergency, which is held in accordance with Article 200. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 135 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. I would like to inform you that he has reported a legitimate absence today by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Second Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency situation, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision to abolish the state of emergency, submitted by the Government, 4 May 2020 and 2. Proposal for a law on the validity of the regulations adopted by the Government during the emergency and confirmed by the National Assembly by the undersigned President of the Republic. I have proposed that, on the basis of Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure, we shall carry out a joint single search on the motion for a decision to abolish the state of emergency and a draft law on the validity of the regulations that the Government, with the sub-signation of the President of the Republic, has made during the emergency and which has been confirmed by the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 17 MPs did not vote for – 129 MPs, against – one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. I also inform you, honourable Members of the Parliament, that according to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, for the purpose of bringing in acts from the agenda of this session. Today's session is attended by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision to abolish the state of emergency and a draft law on the validity of regulations by the Government, with the signing of the President of the Republic, during the emergency and confirmed by the National Assembly. Does the prime minister's representative, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, want a word? Here you go. (National MP Bosko Obradovic whistles in a whistle. ) I give notice to the MP Bosko Obradovic. (National MP Bosko Obradovic whistles in a whistle. ) I give a second warning to the MP Bosko Obradovic. (National MP Bosko Obradovic whistles in a whistle in front of the chair. ) I take away the word of the MP Bosko Obradovic. You're off the table. A 15-minute break to ensure the National Assembly brings out an MP to whom the measure has been given. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear Members, Article 111(4). - if the MP refuses to leave the meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly will order the staff in charge of maintaining order in the building of the National Assembly to remove that MP from the session and set a break until the measure of distance is carried out. (National MP Bosko Obradovic whistles in a whistle. I'm setting a break of 20 minutes. I call upon the office responsible for maintaining order in the building to apply the measures and to escort the MPs out of the O.R. so that we can devote ourselves to the motion for a decision to abolish the state of emergency and take this measure. A 20-minute break and I'm asking you to carry out the measure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73798	Thank you. The Honorable President, honourable MPs, is very grateful that you have enabled us to work today in the interest of the citizens. The government has sent a motion to abolish the state of emergency. My exposure will be brief. I'm just going to give you a review of why we're proposing to lift the state of emergency. So, according to the profession, the Crisis Headquarters, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all conditions were created to abolish the state of emergency in Serbia, which was introduced on 15 March 2020, due to the Kovid epidemic - 19, or Coronavirus. The basic condition was that more than seven days we had a percentage below 5% of the infected compared to the total test. And that condition is, with all the happiness fulfilled, thanks to all those restrictive measures, all that discipline, all the pawning and health care workers and all the others. So we have this basic condition fulfilled. Since April 28th, we are below 5%. Then, on April 28th, we had 4.0%, so the percentage of positive, or infected compared to the total, on April 29th also 4%, on April 30th 4.25%, on May 1st 3.31%), on May 2.93%, on May 4, 2.04% and on May 5th, and yesterday, 2.49%, and today we'll see at 15.00 hours, but up to this point, it's about 1.8%, so below 2%. In addition, for seven days we have seen a significant reduction in the daily number of active cases, and besides this, it has finally met all six criteria of the World Health Organization that have been delivered to the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia and when these six criteria have been met by the World Health Organization need to be phased out in the event of an epidemic in a Member State. One, the evidence shows that the transfer of Kovid - 19 has been controlled, which we have fulfilled for more than seven days. Under two, public health and health systems have enough capacity to identify, isolate, test and treat all cases, as well as to monitor and place contacts in quarantine, which has been the case in the Republic of Serbia since the first day, and has never changed, thanks to all the measures that we have all taken together and respected. Under three, the risks of the epidemic are reduced to a minimum, in areas of great vulnerability, such as institutions for long-term care and collective centres. Under four, preventive measures are set up in places with physical distance, with the setting of washing and disinfection tools and respiratory hygiene and potential thermal screening. Under five, the management of the risk of exporting or exporting infections from communities with high transfer risk. We don't even have it anymore today. So we don't even have these little hotspots. And under six, local communities take part in the transition to softer measures. So we have three basic conditions fulfilled. I think it is our responsibility to propose that you be removed from the state of emergency, I think that this is the most responsible treatment for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is important that the state of emergency in the Republic of Serbia does not remain in force for a day longer than it is necessary and that Serbia, its economy, all of our citizens are returning slowly, as much to normal life as we have said, and as we have said, what will be our new normality is life and work with social distance measures, physical distances, precautions and prevention measures, masks, enhanced hygiene. So all you need to do is find the vaccine for Kovid - 19. It is important that we now go back to economic growth, economic recovery, it is important that we take some of the chances that we are given, given that Serbia is more ready than many other countries in Europe and the world have welcomed this crisis, both health and economic. As a result, our growth in the first quarter was currently estimated at 5%, it will likely be slightly above 5%, while we have an economic downturn in both the EU and the euro area and the world. So it is important and the proposal is for Serbia to start returning to normal, to put an end to the state of emergency. We have all the preconditions and it would be irresponsible and it would be an abuse if we were to extend the state of emergency one day longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73799	Thank you. The word is Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73800	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. First Prime Minister, Prime Minister, President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the Prime Minister spoke briefly, and I will only put out very briefly the views of the SVM parliamentary group. As I said last week, when the National Assembly confirmed the decision to introduce a state of emergency, I would like to reiterate that the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were timely, justified and proportionate. Serbia is ready to meet the epidemic and that is why we are in a situation that after 50 days we can end the state of emergency. It takes citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know that not all countries are in this situation, that there are countries where governments have decided to extend the state of emergency, that emergency measures remain in force until July or in some countries until later. It's certainly a good thing we came into a situation that we could slowly get out of this crisis. The first step towards this is to eliminate the state of emergency because there are no more reasons and conditions for the state of emergency, because the danger is not such a character that they are in danger of the survival of the state and the people. As regards the draft law on the validity of the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the signing of the President of the Republic during the emergency situation, it is important to say that, together with the state of emergency, all those regulations which meant the organisation of certain human and minority rights are abolished, because human and minority rights can be restricted exclusively during the emergency or wartime status under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and therefore cannot remain and these restrictions of human rights cannot remain in force. They remain in force in some regulation concerning the measure, the government's economic measures, above all those measures that enable the payment of those 100 euros to citizens, measures that create conditions to help businesses, entrepreneurs, agricultural producers. I would like to say again what I said last week, to ask citizens, businessmen, entrepreneurs, and agricultural producers to use those opportunities that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made possible to maintain their business, so that they can develop their agricultural land. At the same time, I would like to appeal again to the government and ask all the competent authorities to do everything and to punish all those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have violated the government's measures, because the vast majority of those measures were extremely difficult to respect, and simply on the basis of the principle of justice, so it must be. There were extremely restrictive measures both during the Catholic Easter and during the Orthodox Easter and today at Djurdjevdan, the vast majority of citizens respected these measures and all those who should not be punished under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. He would have two questions for the Prime Minister, or for the first Deputy Prime Minister. The first applies, because we are slowly entering the normalisation of life, and the normalisation of life assumes that crossing the borders of the Republic of Serbia is important, especially in the border areas, the municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, and I would also like to thank the government for solving the problem of certain categories of the Republic of Serbia, above all, I think of those who process the country on the other side of the border and those who have a job on the other side of the border and are allowed in a 50km band to cross the border. But they ask other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when will it be possible to cross the border without determining the mandatory quarantine that was justified during the emergency? Of course, none of these are slow, but they are extremely difficult living situations and dramas in the case of certain citizens, especially in border municipalities, it happens that some people receive certain therapies on the other side of the border, it happens that families are separated, it happens that for some other reasons, not just businesses, they need that border to cross. Well, I'd ask a question, when can citizens expect to cross the most normal, with respect for certain measures, but without quarantine limits? The second question, and I really don't want to politicise it, and the SVM doesn't belong to parties that have politicised it, but migrants re-emerge. I spoke of migrants in this National Assembly on several occasions and asked the authorities to ensure the peace and security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I was told last night by citizens with information and photographs that migrants were heading back to certain settlements in the border belt in municipalities and populated towns in northern Bačka and northern Banat last night when it was still in effect, when the Serbian Army was still guarding reception centres. I would pray, appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do everything to ensure that after returning life to some normal flows, citizens are safe and peaceful and as far as the presence of migrants is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73801	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73802	Thank you. I thank you for your support, and I also thank you for understanding that all the necessary conditions have been met, and that this is extremely important for all of our citizens and that today seems to be a big and important day, that we have positive news for our citizens today. I'm sorry that this meeting of the National Assembly had to start the way it started because I really think that all our citizens are looking forward to an end to the state of emergency. It was therefore responsible to do so on the first day possible, which does not mean that the government of the Republic of Serbia will not work on this. We're not even going to end the crisis headquarters. Crisis headquarters will continue to work, we will continue to test equal and increasing numbers of citizens to ensure full security for all of our citizens to prevent the return of the epidemic, that we do not have that second wave, or if that other wave comes eventually in the fall, that we are fully prepared. We really think that the state of emergency has no reason to exist more in the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that the highest percentage of our citizens, if not all, are really looking forward to today's day and that they are looking forward to the support of both you MPs and the vote to abolish the state of emergency. As for two topics, entering the country. We've talked about this before. I expect that either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, so on Friday, the crisis staff has the next session, we met yesterday, and the agreement is that for the next session of the Crisis Headquarters we have exactly certain measures under which we will let people enter the Republic of Serbia without having to stay in quarantine for 14 days. We'll be out on Friday or Monday with a clear recommendation. The only thing we are now thinking about is whether it will be proof that the person entering the Republic of Serbia is not infected, whether it will be a 24-hour PCR test, so a negative PCR test, or whether we will be doing PCR or rapid border tests in the Republic of Serbia. We've already considered how we can do it in the fastest possible way, so as soon as possible, or Friday or Monday, we'll figure this out, and we'll let it go again for the purpose of introducing what kind of new normality. So, people won't be able to just walk in, they'll have to have a test either from their country or we'll do tests, but we'll allow people to enter the Republic of Serbia. As far as migrants are concerned, today will be held in government proper meetings, let's see how we can do it again and because it's a new normality, so also because we're going to have to follow these precautions. How will we treat migrants? Of course, human, human, but with all precautions and prevention. So, you'll have information tomorrow on what additional emergency measures will be, I'd say, in order to preserve public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73803	Thank you. The word is sought by Ivica Dacic, foreign minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73804	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, since Mr Pastor has asked a question about travel, we, as you know, have made decisions, regulations and other regulations concerning movement, in this case and crossing the state border. The government has adopted a supplement to this regulation, including at the request of the Hungarian Foreign Ministry, and we have concluded this. This applies not only to Hungary, but also to all surrounding countries. This means that, as far as we're concerned, everyone who lives in that small border belt, and usually a small border belt is about 50 km, everyone living in that belt, and they have a country on the other side of the border or working on the other side of the border, means the possibility of crossing the state border without these restrictions, or self-insulation, isolation and everything else. But that's our decision. Only Hungary has left so far in the application of all that. I mean, we're talking to Bulgaria now. Maybe tomorrow and Bulgaria will make it happen. With Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was quite difficult, which should otherwise go very easily, because there are a large number of people living on the other side and not only Serbs, but also Muslims, or Bosniaks... (Vojislav Seselj: It's all Serbs, Dacic, but you didn't learn in time. All right, well, you're from that neighborhood over there... In any case, we are open to the possibility of making more bilateral arrangements, and that is Croatia, Northern Macedonia, Romania and we will end it. However, this second question remains, which you have asked, which is the crossing of the state border. It's not just our question. So we can also open our borders, but now the situation is in international and legal and political traffic, so to speak, there is no free border crossing regime anywhere. All countries are looking for certain certificates and guarantees, not only of the health type, but of the possibility of entering that country at all. So you cannot enter a country, such as an EU member state, without having any permission to work or stay, or having a special guarantee from the ministry that you are coming here for something special. So, in the map of the road made by the EU, the opening of borders does not fall to the first degree. That means that even some of the countries don't plan it before June. We'll follow that as it goes. Of course, when it comes to the health system, those who do so will assess what measures someone needs to apply when entering the country, or whether they will remain that measure of self - isolation and within what time. It's been 28 days and 14 days, but that measure is certainly applied everywhere. So there is no country where you can enter without going into quarantine or self-insulation. So these things aren't just up to us and we're gonna follow what's going on. Now that I've taken the floor, I'd just like to add to what the prime minister was saying, that we, within all these activities that we've been doing, because you know that at the time of the Corona and the pandemic and the role of the Foreign Ministry, were specific and the entire foreign policy consisted practically of helping overcome all the difficulties that exist, and above all, helping people to travel, to return. As you spoke in the last session of parliament on this, we failed, but we allowed more than 15,000 people in an organised way, with the organised assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, in this communication we had one working group, or crisis headquarters, which was within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which agreed with the cabinets of the President and Prime Minister and in agreements with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Traffic addressed all these outstanding issues. There were 37 humanitarian flights, where it was transported, if they were added, meaning humanitarian flights organised by Er Serbia, or paid by the Serbian government, if these were added by other countries for their citizens, and they helped to transport our citizens, when the programme that the EU also implemented for the return of its citizens from some remote destinations was added, and there were also examples that some companies organised charter flights to return workers who worked abroad, so there were more than 7,000 people who were sent back on the plane. However, the government has estimated, since there is no need for these humanitarian flights anymore, because no one is trapped at the airport anymore, we have estimated that this should be interrupted and that Er Serbia should return to regular activities as soon as possible. As I understand it, it's already coming out of my domain now, but from what I understand, Er Serbia will soon begin to fly where these airports are open in the world. Some airports were open all the time. I think it was Frankfurt, Budapest, and now Vienna, so there will be these regular lines. However, further, now related to the other thing, we have made it possible and organized to cross the border through cars or organised transport such as buses. I'm going to repeat here that no one can get through a country, they won't let it, unless there's a guarantee from our ministry, or our country, that they'll be admitted to the country. So, the government hired, practically the same number as the car, or bus, and it continues every day. But now this activity, what Balint asked, is done in another direction. That means there are now people who want to go to those countries. It is also possible, but with organised assistance from the government of the Republic of Serbia and our ministry, to agree with these countries the transit line, the route, so that they can even go through all these obstacles to where they want to go. Second, we didn't charge anyone anything. Most countries have been identified as charging tickets. We didn't charge any tickets. I have to tell you, it was different. We sent three planes to Malta. Now I see from the media that there's a request for a fourth plane. We've stopped it, but I also want to tell you that the government of Malta is organizing a flight and is ready to organize a flight, but that flight cost 220 euros and our people won't pay for it. They expect us to send for free, and it's all right while it worked, and we should help, but we're not a travel agency, we can't function that way anymore, but we've shown responsibility to this problem that existed and we've solved it. I also want to say that with great satisfaction, when it comes to some other issues, I want to commend our approach which, although many are now criticizing our relationship with some countries that are our traditional friends, and now Brussels is often being criticised for all this. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia is now participating in the EU summit – the Western Balkans, unfortunately, today all summits and all international meetings take place through video conferences. We participated, for example, in the Donor Conference, which was also held through a video conference, the Donorial Conference for Global Response to Coronavirus, including the search for a safe and effective vaccine, for a safe and effective treatment, i.e. therapy, medications, and, of course, for the assistance of each other and the solidarity that exists between countries. I said this because we donated two million euros, so Serbia. That's what I'm saying because it's twice as much as Croatia, which is the EU's chairman, not to mention some other countries now. So, Estonia, Latvia and Bulgaria donated 100,000 euros, Romania 200,000 euros, Malta 400,000 euros, the Visegrad Group, are Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland at 750,000 euros. Other Western Balkan countries did not participate at all, and the countries I was talking about received billions and billions from the EU through various funds, and are now investing 100,000 euros. All right, let's not get involved in their affairs right now, I don't think that this has shown that they're smarter, but that we have shown that we are seriously accessing this problem and that we want one real answer to stop this pandemic, and that means a scientific response to how to stop all these problems that exist as soon as possible. Life won't be back to normal so soon. All countries estimate that in the coming year, two more of these so-called mares will continue. social distance, which means that we all have to get used to how all kinds of activities are going to work in these conditions and make it work. So I have to say that if we're in a situation today to end the state of emergency and draw the line, the state of emergency was an imminent response to the crisis caused by this vicious virus and pandemic. More than half of the EU member states have imposed a state of emergency. Also, Serbia has shown that it has leadership that can run the so-called so-called leadership. crisis management, i.e. to manage the country in the most difficult conditions. I would also like to commend this as a priority for both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister who have proposed various measures that are not popular and that we have had to implement. Today when we draw the line, our result is also when it comes to the mortality rate far below this average which each of you can calculate if you look at the number of infected and the number of deaths. We return to normal activities, we return, among other things, to the election campaign. We have agreed at a meeting with the president and prime minister, as representatives of political parties, and this has already been adopted by the government, to facilitate the process of collecting signatures and certification of signatures, so that as many parties as possible can participate in the elections. That's why the election's waiting for us. I think the people are the best political judge. That is why I really cannot understand such events as they are today, as Bosko Obradovic did today. I can only take that as a final performance, because with this kind of policy, this kind of destructive behavior will certainly turn out to be that he really whistled his show today and to welcome him, I don't think he's going to join the assembly with this kind of act. As far as we're concerned, we're going further on about this crisis and in general, politically speaking, there's plenty of time for the election, and here you have seen today, that's what the Prime Minister just showed me, that it's been announced, that some professor said that the President of the Republic should, as they said, refrain from the campaign, and should not even vote, in their opinion. Wait, now it's not only important that Vucic participates not in the campaign, but that he can't even vote now, and that it's a reflection of democracy. To tell you the truth, I've never done that before, you know, 30 years of politics, I've never heard such statements that in such a way someone refers to the function of the President of the Republic. It's simple because everyone knows, after all, and what it will be and which party has support and which politician. I won't answer again unless there are any more questions to be asked in the end. I don't understand the opposition protesting at today's session. Well, I guess everyone's looking forward to eliminating the state of emergency. Unless someone thinks it's gonna take another term of office. I wouldn't mind it myself, but it's still better if it's lifted. Mr. Pastor said at that meeting with the presidents of the parties that he thinks the opposition should suggest that the state of emergency should be extended, as he said, in fact, to postpone the election for four years, so that everything stays the way it is. That would be the most appropriate thing for someone. Imagine now that we have demands that the elections be postponed in the fall. How to postpone elections in the fall, some special law would have to be passed, Lex specialis, would have to extend the state of emergency, and so on. Whenever there are elections, the result will be about the same, which is that we will win. When I say win, I mean the ruling coalition, and maybe some more from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73805	The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73806	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister, foreign ministers, you know, Dimitri Ljotic said we needed fighters, not voters. It is today, sir, if I may say so, Bosko Obradovic and showed, that through this incident, he is actually once again confirming that he is looking for a way to reach power and privilege without a choice. I would like to congratulate, first of all, the presidents of the National Assembly in the way she reacted, but also to all the MPs in one dignified way that they responded to such an incident. Otherwise, such incidents, which are only sought and aimed at getting media attention and some cheap political points, are exactly the way to react. To return to what is the theme of today's assembly session. We believe that Serbia has achieved extraordinary results in the fight against the negative effects of the virus. State leadership, headed by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, has done a whole health profession a serious and important job. The results of this job are visible and recognizable and thanks to these results, we have managed to get through this phase. But in the next phase, unfortunately, Corona will still be present in our lives. State leadership, as the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister said, has also shown that it has the ability and willingness and knowledge to manage the crisis and manage crisis situations. As I was saying a few days ago, it reacted quickly, reacting far faster than some countries. Have we been very often resented that some of the measures introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been harsh, and then some EU countries have used exactly the same measures, because what can be so strict if you have the price of human life? On the one hand you have the price of human life, on the other hand you have, as they say, some excessive measures, well, I guess in such circumstances you always choose to preserve human life. It's impossible for you to have 100%, as I said a few days ago, it's impossible to have 100% freedom of movement and to have the opportunity to preserve 100% of human lives in these circumstances. What is important and what has shown this period behind us - the system works when it is the hardest, and we have, as the Prime Minister said in the opening statement, good economic results and good economic indicators. He managed to avoid the worst scenario that happened in some countries, unfortunately, such as Italy and Spain, precisely thanks to the rigorous and rigorous measures introduced by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that this period has been difficult for a number of citizens, and it is completely understandable to us, but it is important that, and I am convinced that citizens understand this, this was a struggle for human lives. We should always remember those who died, express our condolences to the families of the deceased during this period, but we should also always remember that and remember how many human lives have been preserved. It is logical that there was also intolerance, logically there was fear, because fear is a natural phenomenon, but this was a struggle for Serbia's future, this was a struggle for Serbia's life. In such circumstances and in such a situation, you will never be able to fully satisfy anyone, but it is an important outcome, and the outcome is positive and that is what is essential. Thank you very much for the disciplined, responsible and serious conduct of our citizens, above all, with all due respect to all citizens, but above all, I am referring to the older population. Serbia has shown that when it is solid and unique that it is strongest, Serbia is always strong when it is unique. As the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has said, epidemiological conditions have been met to end the state of emergency. Just because an emergency is lifted doesn't mean that some measures will be put out of force, it's simply not logical, it's not natural. What does that mean? This again requires a high degree of our personal responsibility and responsibilities for citizens in the coming period, just so there is no spread of the pandemic. The degree of personal responsibility is therefore needed, but what I would like to point out once again is that both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the overall health system in the period behind us, which was not easy at all, is very difficult. Circumstances, new circumstances, a new situation, we don't know what they're up against and what we're up against have shown their willingness to make difficult decisions in a difficult time period and what's fundamentally important, to be with their people when it's difficult. A very often question has been raised by individual opposition political parties, not all, I say, by certain opposition political parties, the issue of responsibility. I ask the question – what is the responsibility of the President, the Government, of all ministers, if not when it is difficult for them to be with their people? Criticism has always been and there has been, whatever has been done would have been criticised by the opposition, if the president had worked from home, if the government had closed the building and had not functioned, waited for the state of emergency to end, we would have criticism again. Those who tried to profit politically during this pandemic only, in fact, best speak of themselves, speak of their moral, political, and human character. It's inhumane, it's hypocritical and it's immoral and I don't have another word to say for that kind of behavior anymore. We have a new situation of trying political profit. In 20 hours, instead of all of us going out and, if nothing else, at least applauding the heroes of Serbia, health workers, first of all, and all those who participated and who contributed to the system in very difficult circumstances, we have political leeches that happened at 20.05 hours and tried and tried to make political profits. Now, imagine what the responsibility of opposition politicians is, from one part of the opposition, the most important thing for them right now is who patented it, who patented the invention of banging into pots? It took a high degree of intelligence to patent something like that. But I am fully convinced, one part of the citizens does not beat up for political reasons, a small part of the citizens are pounding for political reasons and it is absolutely not disputed, Serbia is a free country and everyone has the right to protest, it is the legitimate right of every citizen, to thus express their position that there was a political nature, any other nature, until it threatens the right of others, until it endangers the functioning of the state and as long as it is in accordance with the law. A small number, I'm completely convinced of that by the citizens of the sherpas for political reasons. One part of the bat because it probably doesn't understand the measures yet, thinks the measures are too harsh even though it was the only responsible and serious approach, one part out of fear, and fear is a natural phenomenon and it certainly needs to be understood. And that small part, it's probably pounding for political reasons. These quasi are the leaders of the opposition who think it's their political support, but let them live in error. On the other hand, if they're banging for political reasons. They say they're banging against dictatorship. If they're pounding for political reasons and supporting those quasi politicians and quacking the leaders of the opposition, then wait for what they're pounding against and what they're banging against. They're pounding for a boycott? Well, democracy is being held in Serbia in the elections and only the elections can change Serbia's political course, nothing else. I don't know a different way, the street certainly doesn't. The 2000 political past will never return to Serbia again. But I say let them live in error. When you don't have a policy, when you have no political ideas, when you don't have a program, then you try to get through incidents like this today to get media attention and try to profit politically. The best response to that kind of behavior Thursday was given to the opposition by Serbian citizens, pensioners who walked when they decided to stage some sort of protest outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is nothing more we need to say than what the citizens themselves have at that moment told these representatives of the opposition. I want to express great satisfaction when it comes to our health care system. I think our health system has given the best possible answer to the situation in which we have found ourselves, that our health system has shown both the vitality and speed of adaptation and the willingness and the expertise and the ability, that Serbia has a large number of health experts. That's right, we did raise salaries to health workers. Today, the full justification for investment in health infrastructure has been confirmed. President, I think that in the next period of time, we should think about raising our salaries to healthcare professionals more, to keep the experts in Serbia, and to invest even more precisely in health infrastructure, taught by the experience that I hope is behind us. The military and the police have been responsible, serious and committed to doing their job. They've introduced one psychological security among the citizens. The diplomacy, Mr. Dacic, I'm speaking to you as foreign minister, has shown that it's not just politics, that the purpose is actually to protect the citizens of your country. That's what the Foreign Ministry, along with the President of the Republic, has shown. That's what citizens know when the pandemic was declared beyond the borders of our country. So the virus doesn't know the state's borders. And it's good that it's always appealed to community, it's good that it's always been appealed to the joint action, the need for joint action, and the support. This period has shown that when it's hard we can rely on two basic things, two essential things. The first thing is their own resources. When I say my own resources, among other things, everything I've talked about, I mean agriculture, I mean farmers, because we're agrarian country, agrarian state. Because if it wasn't for farmers, and they're heroes today, if it wasn't for them, there wouldn't be supplies. The other thing is what you were talking about, Mr. Dacic, and these are traditionally friendly-oriented states. Thanks to foreign policy, thanks to government policy, the foreign ministry, the president of the Republic, Serbia has strengthened its international reputation and image. Serbia has now become a secure, reliable and stable partner and thanks to this Serbia has received support and assistance in the previous period of time. I wouldn't single anyone out. It's true that we expected some to react far faster than when they responded, but not to criticise, so that I wouldn't be misread, I just want to give thanks to everyone. Great gratitude, of course, and to journalists, who in one difficult time period, difficult circumstances, have really done their job professionally. I am sorry that they went through one torture by one part of the opposition, that during this difficult period they had to listen again to qualifications to share them on those who are journalists, those who are not journalists, those who are similar and unsuitable, instead of having great respect for people who, under difficult circumstances, are professionally and professionally doing their job. Because, I'm sorry, the information in the days behind us for the citizens of Serbia was of paramount importance and importance. We're going on where you left off, like you said. I think three things are essential. The first thing is a high degree of personal responsibility. We must continue to act responsibly, seriously, disciplined, rationally, to respect the recommendations of the profession, to preserve lives. The other thing is the economy, to preserve the Serbian economy. Serbia has never been more economically stable and stronger. We need to preserve the fiscal achievements that we have achieved in the previous time period thanks to the reform course of the Government of Serbia, to use the benefits from all of this in the period ahead, to accept all that are incentives that can enable growth and development. Here, the building is on its way. It started with the infrastructure. There's no economics without infrastructure development, and that's very good. The measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have just been directed towards the most vulnerable categories. So, to preserve the level of employment, to preserve Serbia's economy, especially the private sector that is the future and to preserve the existence and standard of living of citizens. They say Wolf and the government don't understand the economy. Well, it's a good thing there's a difference between us and that part of the opposition. Because for us, the ultimate goal is to strengthen Serbia's economy and to keep Serbia financially stable and strong, not to find a way to reach one-off and personal wealth. The third thing that matters is the election. That's where we fully agree. Our position is - there is no delay in choice. It's very important that the election be held as soon as possible. We've been listening to proposals from individual opposition MPs. First, they said during the pandemic that the government was using the pandemic to delay the elections to achieve political goals. And then they advocated a postponement of the election. And they're all up for a boycott. That's not very clear to me. For months, we were deceived, both by ourselves and the public, by farce, by some electoral conditions, by electoral demands, although they knew very well that the only thing left to them as a desperate and losing move was a boycott and nothing else, showing themselves as Europeans, patriots, Democrats. They are neither Europeans nor patriots, nor Democrats. Calling on friends from the European Parliament, well, here, both Mrs Fajon and Mr Bilchik found it appropriate a few days ago to tell us that Parliament should function. A journalist asked me - how do you comment? I said - I do not feel absolutely the need to comment, but I am glad that both Mr Bilchik and Mrs Fajon finally realized that there is a parliament in Serbia, as the highest body of the legislative authority, and that no moment of the talks we have had for months had reason to lead in hotel lobbys, but precisely in the institutions of the system, right in parliament. Thank them for thinking of Serbia, but we will continue to work in the best interests of our citizens. And finally, just a few more things. We feel sorry for every child in Serbia, I must say. We feel sorry for every child in Serbia. That's what we talked about more than once. But children and tears become part of a political campaign. I think we have to deal with the cause of everything that's been going on since the beginning. From the very beginning, we have been saying that the lack of political power, the lack of political influence, leads to the most primitive possible behaviour and that this makes more limits for the political vocabulary. When you have no idea, when you don't have a program, when you don't have people who are guaranteed to realize that program, then use incidents. Who used the kids first? Who used patents first? I talked about it a few months ago here in parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these are photographs. These photos, here you are, Mr. Dacic, with your son, and here is the President of the Republic with his son, unfortunately, these photographs have not been taken and have not been taken by representatives of the ruling coalition. This was done by someone else. Well, don't expect pity today because your children haven't been called in a moment. Politicians are expected solutions. When you entered politics, you didn't ask your children. Citizens expect solutions from politicians, not pity. If you wanted to change something, then you should have said - Bosko Obradovic, give an apology to the president of the National Assembly for physically hitting on her, give an apology for physically hitting on Pink TV journalists, give an apology for physically hitting the chairman of the Administrative Board. Sergei Trifunovic, make an apology the way you spoke to the pensioners. Well, then we'd be different from the others. Now, don't try to cause pity on the citizens, because it doesn't go through anymore, that political fog doesn't go through. As for vaccination, Mr. Dacic, we're against politicization, as you said, whole stories. The vaccine must be internationally verified. The vaccine has to be generally accepted, effective and safe, and that's no conspiracy theory, that's life. At the very end, just a few more seconds. I have a few questions. Do they, Mr Dacic, the EU, have you just talked about, do they have the EU and the UN, I am glad that the Prime Minister participated in a donor conference and that Serbia has invested two million euros in the vaccine, we are proud of that, indeed, but do the EU and the UN have a unique approach where to go on? What's the road? Which way should we go? Because, as I said, the crown will be present in the next phase of our lives. Next thing you know, will Serbia's foreign policy change after the pandemic, and how will all of this work on a global scale? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73807	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73808	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. First Prime Minister, we are gathered to discuss the abolition of the state of emergency that has been introduced in order to preserve, as far as I understand, the health of citizens and the security of Serbia as a state, so as not to experience some of the disastrous scenarios of our close countries, such as Italy, Spain and others, which number tens of thousands of deaths. However, this state of emergency in Serbia has clearly proved to be something that has managed to preserve many human lives and not allow the capacities of health institutions to be overloaded, the health system to crack and thus to come into a position for people to die without any possibility of being helped. So the state of emergency has, in a certain sense, produced results, because, as I understand it, a tragic figure of 200 deceased from the crown, which I saw today as the latest, is a number that is terrible, of course, because it's terrible to talk about people as numbers. However, compared to 25 thousand or more now in Italy, or 20 and more thousands in Spain, and even thousands in Sweden, who tried to unmistakably, counting on citizens' awareness, achieve some kind of self-immunization of the population, has proved to be something that relates to human lives. In that sense, I support that the state of emergency has been introduced and I ask, therefore, a clear question - are the conditions for the state of emergency to be completed, is the virus defeated? We've heard from the Prime Minister that, according to the data available, the number of people affected by the number of infected falls, but will that be the case, and when this type is interrupted, I have to say, extremely restrictive measures relating to the population? On the other hand, however, there are serious objections to the government's work on the implementation of the state of emergency itself. I'll tell you what he's working on right now. So, on March 24, this year, the state of emergency was already in effect, I will read to you a document submitted to the police: “As I returned from work on March 24th at the entrance to the Serbbran, I was visited by a black BMW of Belgrade plates, civil, slowed down, stopped me from the road, came out two boys with boys, showed badges that look like gendarmes, as far as I could tell, with calls to get out of the car. There was another car behind me. One of my faces came up to me, handcuffed me, said I was arrested, and got into their car, the BMW stamps. There were three of them in the car, two front, one with me back, who asked me if I knew why I was arrested. When I said I don't know what he took out the printscreen of my Facebook announcements and said I was calling for the collapse of the constitutional order. He hit me with a cry for a state of emergency so people don't get sick, and I call for an insurgency. What I said wasn't my intention. The car turned towards Turkey before the bridge in Srbobran. The guy who was sitting back said it wouldn't happen again, so there wouldn't be any injuries next time, and I almost dodged a bullet. We stopped in front of Turkey, got out of the car, they untied my handcuffs, put the key to my car in my pocket, said I wasn't turning 60 seconds and left." The same day was reported to the criminal police in Novi Sad, a conversation with the inspector, gave a statement, but I haven't received any feedback since. Marko Lutkic, a member of the LSD Vojvodina Board. The announcement, therefore, was this: "The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the possibility of restrictions on certain rights, but does not foresee the possibility of full abolition done with persons over 65 years of age. Prisoners in closed KPZ departments have two hours a day to come out, and in Serbia, pensioners three hours a week, as someone said - all of this is one of Serbia's darkest legal episodes in the 21st century. “ Was that why a man was arrested without the police being able to determine who arrested him until today? When I called the authorities over a month ago to ask what happened, the answer was, we're still watching the cameras. That was a month and a half ago. Of course, this is an isolated case. I didn't want to make any kind of politicization out of it, because, you know, when the unskilled takes a hammer in his hand, everything looks like a nail, so I understand that some people from the, I guess, security services, and probably not, but in any case representing themselves as someone from the security service, they thought it was their time to be human defenders before the infection. But what surprised me, when action was launched a few days ago that, suddenly overnight, on the roofs of buildings in a number of towns in Serbia, baklads were held, monitoring the release of e-mails of various offensive messages in the name of a citizen of this country. Again – one citizen of this country. On the question of the police -- why didn't they legitimize them, the answer is -- they had orderly operating passes during curfew. That's true, maybe, but what I don't understand... It takes three things to move during curfew, which is: a ID card, a time pass and a certified document by an employer, which is why it is necessary for this person to move in the course of police hours. So the police had to look for all these three documents and find out from this third one who the employers were the ones who organized all of this. So far, however, we have not received any answer on the subject. We didn't get an answer as to how it is possible, when made, in my opinion, that an extremely wise decision by the Government to prevent gatherings, not to spread the infection, to keep a two-metre social distance, then to come into a position that during religious holidays part of the SPC Claire inaths, organising liturgies with Communion, and not only not to be punished, but even those who participated in this, in this case, very unhygienic act are not being brought into quarantine to avoid being infected. It wasn't done, it was immediately politicized into the coordinate system, I don't know what kind of hate for, I don't know, SPC or something like that. If you want to make democratic Serbia, and I so understand you at the beginning of your mandate, the Honorable Prime Minister, then you must know that it is simply not possible to build a democratic state where people are not equal under the law. If you want to create a united Serbia, then you can't make it, if you don't have the equality of citizens in front of the Constitution and the law, and you can't wear a coat or a cheerleader uniform to be a vest that defends against the law, which defends against everything that applies to others. Because then we come to the question, if for the purposes of pure propaganda we can get permission to move during curfew, then the question is whether those who adhere to the law in this country turn out to be naive, is this disease even real or not, and what is it really about? That is why, the united democratic Serbia as the goal we all hope for can't be achieved by banging into the sherps, and, by the way, be said as a small curiosm, for the first time, the sherpa has been introduced into political practice in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, somewhere in late 1988 in Pristina, but it wasn't from a protest that had the political background of this type, but because it was pounding into empty sherpas as showing that people were hungry. I unfortunately think that banging into the pots, the empty pots will be much more than now, precisely because the pots will be empty, because this kind of impact on the economy that this pandemic has done, can't be overcome, you know that much better than I do, overnight. He will insist on making many legal changes that will facilitate the position of the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, stop treating domestic entrepreneurs as the money of this society, and put citizens' equality first priority in the country's rules of conduct. That's one option. The other option is that Corona teaches us that it is not so and then this parliament that has not made a decision to introduce the state of emergency, but it is another story that we could say, therefore, that this Parliament is in a position to become useless, to serve the exhibitionist experiences that we saw at the beginning of the session, rather than for people who have been sent by citizens to represent their interests, to say what they have, to hear what others think and to find the best solution for all citizens. If this parliament doesn't serve it, if there's going to be a scream on the street who's a thief, and who is -- I'm not going to use another definition that's used by another name, then we're going to get people to judge. The court of the people is called lynch, and it's a total disintegration of the rule of law and you know it well. That's why, there's only one thing I don't understand. How will we organise elections that will be legitimate in conditions where we are not equal and we are not even equal to the law when a citizen of this country can be publicly lynched by unnamed groups of unknown origin? And I will end up with the following wisdom that is not mine, but it is very accurate: “When those who cry out in the street who is a thief, and who is not and who are organized by the pride, there is a crocodile who hopes to eat him last. ” Thank you, nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73809	The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73810	Thank you. Okay, we agree that the state of emergency has yielded results in terms of preserving, saving human lives, which I think is the most important thing for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can and will come up with these other political issues, but it seems to me that behind us two months is the worst crisis since World War II. I am pleased that thanks to the rapid reaction of the state, our citizens have not seen these shortages, nor the terrible scenes of mass graves, the collapse of the health system, and that at this point, many of us may not have acted as if from this perspective these two months were the most terrible crisis after World War II work in the whole world, although it works in the largest number of European countries and EU member states. After all, both in the United States and some other countries. I think we've shown that at the most difficult times we can do the best work and I'm happy about it. Dr. Conn spoke several times, and I will call today to say that he seemed to have a rapid state reaction, and in addition to that, a phenomenal reaction to the expertise of our infectors, epidemiologists, our doctors and nurses, technicians, all health workers and many other factors in society, that when we look at the fight against Kovid – 19 and in time behind us we will not be ashamed and I do not think we are ashamed. Are the conditions for the removal of emergency status met? As I said in my very brief opening statement, I think the conditions for the abolition of the emergency are fully met. Is the virus defeated? I don't think we can say that the virus has been completely defeated, but we're on more than the right path and I think we're at the end of it and we're gonna be able to say that the virus has been defeated in a few days. Do those two things go together? I think it would be an abuse of state of emergency if they asked as Government to extend the state of emergency until we declared absolute victory over the virus. Because I think at this point no one in the world, nor does WHO know exactly what they're facing, they don't know if there's going to be another wave or there's not going to be another wave, but I still think that some kind of emergency measures can be extended without an emergency, absolutely. That's how it's gonna be, but that's just the state of emergency, that kind of ban on movement, that's what the emergency situation is carrying with it, is it necessary at this point to extend? No, I don't think it takes a single day. As I say, I think it would be an abuse to ask for an additional extension of the state of emergency. So the state of emergency had its purpose and it fulfilled its purpose. I think it's time to lift it now, but certainly additional measures, caution will be needed and we will continue to do extended testing, the crisis headquarters will continue to operate. We will continue to monitor the situation from day to day, from hour to hour, but I absolutely think the state of emergency has fulfilled its purpose, that we have met all the conditions that the WHO has given to end the state of emergency as such, and of course we continue to fight it. You gave an example of who, unfortunately, I have no information and I asked my team to look into it. I just got word that there's been a report, that the footage was taken from the cameras, that the investigation was ongoing and that it wasn't police vehicles. We'll keep working on it. Was there a mistake during the state of emergency, was there a government error during the fight against Kovid - 19? Sure, no doubt at all. I said the last time, last week when I was in the congregation, I didn't come here to say we were innocent, I didn't come here to say we were sinless. It was a mistake, but we did our best. We worked really literally day and night. Every infected, every sick one we've followed, every death case we've survived, and we survive as if it were our own, as if someone from our family. I really feel personal responsibility, I'm the Prime Minister, you can trust me, you can not trust me, that's right. I wake up and lie down with how many new infected and how many new deceaseds we have. We've done our best, there's been mistakes, there's been mistakes all over the world, there's a new situation nobody's used to. But all the mistakes we've made, which we may not even know about right now, we'll examine all the mistakes and learn from them. Was this the darkest time in Serbia? No, away from that, away from that. I'm proud of how we acted during this state of emergency, and I'm proud that every day we had a press conference where all the media who wanted to ask questions up to one point when there was really no, and a lot of media asked me if it was safe at all, ever since they could ask questions by email, I think, but in most days everyone was invited, everyone was present, and the press conferences lasted and for more than an hour as long as it took, we gave citizens all the information checked out, right, we were open to questions, we didn't use it for political promotion, mostly the profession talked. So, I'm proud of how we pushed through, really, really hard for two months. We can go back to what it was, say, the state of emergency declared in 2003 and what freedoms were then suspended or completely abolished, I'll tell you only a couple, when we compare this emergency and this emergency. So then the police had the right to bring in any person and keep in the official rooms for up to 30 days without the right to defend themselves. At that time, the director of the BIA, the Security Information Agency, could have opened any correspondence. It deviated from the principle of non-violence of the secret letter and any other means of disclosure without a decision of the competent court. At that time, an authorised official was allowed to enter the other person’s apartment and premises without the court’s decision and there was no need for the presence of witnesses. The right to strike has been abolished, not suspended, but the right to strike has been abolished and a political union and other action aimed at disrupting and preventing the application of measures during an emergency without precise formulation, therefore, with a wide scope for abuses. Public information and disseminating of the press and other information on the reasons for the declaration of state of emergency and the application of the emergency measure has been prohibited. The ad hoc personal composition of the judiciary was changed, etc. So, no, I don't think we've seen any of this at all fortunately at the time of this emergency and that the only emergency intensity was to protect public health and that at no time in any way have we broken it by bringing some, by adopting some measures, regulations or orders in any way. Were there any individual incidents? It will certainly be investigated and we are open to it, but in addition to this, I think that at really not at any single moment, not in one single million seconds have the government or other authorities in any way abused this state of emergency and that the bans have been designed to save human lives, to prevent the spread of the infection. You say, now on these political issues, that it is not possible to create a democratic Serbia in which not everyone is equal. I fully agree with you, and that is why several times during this state of emergency I have addressed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pointing to incredible hypocrisy, indeed unimaginable hypocrisy by some political groups and by some, I would say, I don't know, experts, analysts and by some media. That hypocrite, I think we could see it at the most yesterday and the day before. The day before yesterday, we had tears, tears, regrets, not just one man who seemed to have abused my own family for political gain by saying that someone attacked his children. His children have never been mentioned by anyone else's luck. I am proud to be a member of the party, a member of the government and a ruling coalition that has never attacked the children of its opponents. Never mentioned them in a single sentence, but we saw an otter of how terrible it was to attack someone's children, or even to call for protests and gatherings at a time of banning movement without a protection mask, without a distance just to make some incident where the provocation was found, now it's not even false news, it's for the column – it didn't happen. That's not fake news anymore. The attack on Mr. Gilas' children didn't happen. But, well, it was used for various other political activities. But we saw the crying, the moaning, the fainting of the work of the public, and then the day after that, you have the complete abuse of the photograph of the son, the older son of President Alexander Vukic, the publication of a photograph that has nothing to do with the text with which it was published, the insinuation of something that is in no way, not that it cannot be proved, but which does not prove anything. Bringing the president's son into immediate danger by imputing him to be part of some clan and all that day after these tears and pay, while the whole text, you know how he advertises, by announcing a new picture of President Vukic's son. That's how you advertise the whole text. Suddenly, we don't have any reaction and we're getting sick of all these people calling for no child attack, normality, don't do that. No, it's all allowed. An open hunt for the children of Alexander Vukic in Serbia is unfortunately allowed. During our state of emergency, we had an invitation to the murder of Alexander Vukic. If you don't believe me, do you want me to quote you? But you know what this is about. It's really not fair, if we're talking about normal democratic Serbia now, that we're acting crazy about that kind of thing. So, at the invitation, to lynch his children, and all the little Vulcans, that they must not leave Serbia, that they should not flee and that if they escape they should be caught. Has anyone convicted her? Did you judge? Has anyone convicted her? Did someone who cried and nailed a conviction like that yesterday? No, I don't. Yeah, I agree with you, you can't make normal Serbia like that. I say, starting with me, I'm proud of never mentioning anyone's children, and I don't know if anyone from the government or the SNS is. On the other hand, I'd like to hear you cry about the non-existent attack the other day that they said one single word yesterday, because I think it would be a real step towards normalising Serbia. One citizen of this country is publicly lynched. Unless you were referring to Alexander Vukic, who was publicly lynched every day, then I don't know who you thought he was publicly lynched. We had an amazing text today on one of the media where the professor of law school, what Mr. Dacic mentioned, just to let you know what it was about, Professor. Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, Marko Pavlovic says... You know, first it was for Alexander Vukic not to be allowed to participate in the campaign, so the election list must not bear his name, which nothing before was allowed in Serbia's past. I think that Boris Tadic has always been allowed, that there has never been any pay and moaning that it is wrong and is not democratic. So it was completely legitimate. Well, today we have come to the fact that not only can Alexander Vukic not only participate in the elections, that it is not democratic, but that man cannot even vote in these elections, that he cannot vote in the country's elections, the man who is the president of the Republic of Serbia, says - Vukic cannot participate in the elections, except to vote, and he doesn't need that either. So, Alexander Vukic, I think that in this country it is perfectly allowed to abolish and the right to vote, it seems to me the basic civil right of an individual in our society. It is indeed a new normality in the Republic of Serbia. So, I totally agree with you, but I wish we didn't have that kind of hypocrisy. I don't know how it's possible that Alexander Vukic doesn't even have the right to vote in the election today. So, what? Let's lock him up somewhere, so he doesn't have the right to appear on TV, he doesn't have the right to participate in the election, he doesn't have the right to vote. His children have no rights, no rights to any protection, no right to condemn when someone directly puts their lives in danger, both directly and indirectly. Well, wait, come on, here, I invite you to establish normality in Serbia. Here, let's start with those who are banging into those pots, who have lifted applause for doctors and medical staff. What, is it possible that we as a state cannot unite in one, and we are united in one during this emergency crisis, this emergency situation, we are all united in one thing, something that didn't happen in the past, and that applause is for doctors, health workers and all those who are on the front line, applause at 2:00 p.m. We all got together, and then somebody had to abuse it politically, by getting on that round of applause at 20.05 in order to hit the pots. Why not 9:00? Why do you abuse that applause? Here, let's get out of this. Then, when someone else answers that he doesn't like someone banging in his apartment over while he's sleeping, he or she, while they're putting the kids to sleep, it's disastrous what other people are doing to you. Now these other people don't have enough rights like these people who have politically used applause for healthcare workers. I think it's completely insane. I will never agree with such normality in the Republic of Serbia, and I will always fight. I'm going to fight hypocrisy, fight false news, and I'm going to fight this new level right now, and that's the section -- it didn't happen. The attack on the children of Dragan Gilas, fortunately and so to remain in this society, not to cross those lines, did not happen and do not politically abuse it. So it's not fake news anymore, it's under the heading – it never happened. Now that we see all of this and put it on one scale, that the alleged attack for crying and tears is, and that the direct attack and endangerment of President Alexander Vukic's son is not for tears, and it's not for judgment, when we come to someone for no reason, nothing is caused to violate the curfew, as the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia and others do, only to cause a political incident, and on the other hand we cannot react to any other restrictions, when we have that Alexander Vukic no longer has the right to vote in this country and that kind of hypocrisy, then I think we can conclude that there is a certain group of politicians in the Republic of Serbia, above all those around the Alliance for Serbia, that there is no longer a vote in the Republic of Serbia citizens first and second order. They are citizens of the front row, who are allowed everything, and everyone else is second-class citizens, third or fourth-row citizens, since they are not allowed anything. Their children can be legitimate targets, it's not for judgment and it's not for tears. They must not participate in the elections, they must not vote. They can't be gathered. So nothing's allowed. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we treat all citizens the same way as those who gather during the curfew will suffer the same consequences regardless of who they politically support or what they do, because they violate the laws of the Republic of Serbia or the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to protect public health. That's right. There are no citizens of first and second order for us. I think the citizens recognize that. I also think that citizens recognize that for some others there are first, second, third and fourth-row citizens, and only they are citizens of the first order. Finally, for empty pots, since I've paid off, I just want to say there won't be any empty pots. We had a growth in the first quarter of something above 5%. We're fighting for the second quarter by the end of this year. You have also seen that the IMF and the World Bank say that Serbia will be the smallest economic downturn this year and the fastest economic growth in 2021, but we need to be careful. After all, one of the reasons why we have to go as quickly as possible to relax the measures, as soon as the conditions are obtained, and now they've won, is so that those pots aren't empty. After all, our package of economic support measures and help and our economy and our citizens is one of the six largest in the world, so I believe we'll fight it. We've shown that we can deal with the crisis. We saved the country from a secure bankruptcy about seven years ago, so I believe it's going to be a good situation now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73811	Right on line, MP Nenad Canak, up to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73812	It won't take me even two minutes. I would only ask you, Madam Prime Minister, to answer my question where are the Minister of Health and the Minister of Police, why aren't they here now to answer questions, because they would, I believe, be much more in matter, since you can't know everything? The other thing, as far as the kids are concerned, I absolutely agree with you that no child should wear a deed to who his father or mother is, but I haven't talked about children for a moment. I was talking about organising an attack on a Serbian citizen, a Serbian citizen. So that's what I was talking about and I was saying it was happening during curfew. That's what people who have a license to do during curfew are doing, and it's obviously not a job that's socially beneficial. That's why I asked you all this. And once again, just a request. Please, please don't compare the state of emergency in 2003 and this, because you'll be in a position to say in the end that this time there were 200 dead, and then only one. These are things I can't compare.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73813	I thought there were a little more shots fired in some ditch and ditch. The Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73814	You know, two emergency situations can be compared in terms of endangering, suspending or limiting human rights and freedom. Of course, emergency situations have been introduced for various reasons, so they cannot be compared to other things, but they can compare how abused or not to restrict human rights and freedoms. I think when you compare these two emergency situations, they are really incomparable. We're never on that and we wouldn't suspend any human rights or freedoms. As for everything else, I don't know how we can even talk about the public link of a citizen of this country, and yet I think you think of Mr. Gilas without talking about the daily lynch. He was lynched, I suppose, because someone was playing a song called "Jilas Thieves" or ran: "Gilas thieves". And we're not talking about the day-to-day, day-to-day scandal for Alexander Wolfie, not to talk about everything now. Don't act crazy, really don't act crazy, because it won't get us into normal or democratic Serbia. I mean, because citizens see all this, they see this hypocrisy. If someone is lynched in this country, it is the President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic, every day, every day, all with his family, all with his children, who are no longer children, have no right, no matter, who are invited to a single show in one media murder. No one reacted. I don't want to tell you that the red line is for me, I don't want to tell you about my personal experiences. People, one of the leaders of the opposition who cried about the attack on the children of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Gilas himself, Mr. Sergei Trifunovic, said the worst things about my child, about us all here, the scariest things. And then he has the right to go out tomorrow and talk to the public, like a decent man, to appeal to protect someone's children. A man insulted my child when that child was three hours old, three hours old. It's never been seen, I mean not in Serbia, but in the world. So, he had fat jokes on me, my kid, my family, when that kid wasn't the only day old. So why, if you want normal Serbia, don't talk about it? Why don't you condemn that man? Why don't you let him out of the political life of that species? Why do you even let such things happen, get away from it? So these people have no right to talk about these things. I think we should all agree on that together, and that's it, and go ahead and build normal Serbia. That's where I'll end up. Indeed, I want to talk about this, I can talk for hours, but don't, please, talk about a citizen who's publicly lynched, when we have the daily lynching of Alexander Vukic and his entire family, until today on a single media that says to himself that he's objective, professional, I don't know how, he respects all the degrees of professionalism, he calls on it, indirectly, because they've given room for an interview with one man who says that Aleksandar Vukic doesn't even have the right to vote in the Republic of Serbia. And by doing so, his last civil right is lifted, which every citizen of this country has. I hope we don't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73815	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Vojislav Seselj: How can I not? So who mentioned you? (Vojislav Seselj: Prime Minister. She didn't mention you once. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go. (Vojislav Seselj: I have a replica, she thought of me. Wait, Arsic, what you don't listen to when the Prime Minister says, that's your problem. I'm entitled to two minutes. Is that a problem now? Or wear me as Boška Obradovica. Give me two minutes of replica, at least I don't abuse it. Here, Palma agrees. My friend Markovic, I'm sorry. Right on line, up to two minutes, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't have to assure you that I never abuse this right of my own. Here, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic listed what the Serbian government was doing in 2003 at a time of emergency, and the worst thing she did not mention. The then government committed a double homicide in a mob way. First, two citizens were regularly arrested, perhaps based, and perhaps without a reasonable doubt, were involved in the previous criminal act. The two citizens were heard at the police station under beatings, and then ministers decided to be liquidated and were shot in the head by police officers and it was never prosecuted, never by responsible ministers brought to court. It's the worst thing that happened in 2003. Well, they killed the Prime Minister, it happens in other countries. But that the government kills citizens, well, that's what's unbearable. We've had Prime Ministers and kings and such and such before, but the government has not killed in such a brutal and unscrupulous way, as far as I know. She didn't kill to directly use police officers to order them, and so on. If in some mob way, it's cool, some of the governments in the past, come on, that's another thing. This was so brutal that it's amazing that it hasn't been processed today. Here, I talked for less than two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73817	I thank you for that, too. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73818	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to congratulate the citizens of Serbia on those who celebrate Djurdevdan today happy fame and remind those who once respected tradition, and I am one of them, that we went to the grass on May 5th, so it's said to me, and on May 5th, when we were little children, we were bathed by mothers in grasslands. Isn't that right, Vojo? (Vojislav Seselj: I went to the orange on Jurdjevdan, and we were picking first Polish flowers, and we were swimming on Saturdays. On Saturdays and on holidays. There was a lot of expensive electricity back then, and now thanks to... (Vojislav Seselj: No, we cooked water on the stove of coal. I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Unity of Serbia has supported the state of emergency and, of course, we will support the end of the state of emergency, for known reasons, because this virus, so-called. Corona has done great damage to the citizens of Serbia, especially to those families whose loved ones have been killed. But we need to do statistics, but let's say -- if 200 people died of the crown, where those people lived. So over 60 and some people who died of the crown were in nursing homes. If we look at it now, that the virus was brought into the home, or homes, that our statistics based on the number of inhabitants, when we look at some other countries, the measures we've introduced have given us a certain result. I want to tell you that we need to do some statistics, but not statistics, every day we watch 111,000 citizens tested, 9,677 citizens were positive, and now that we look at 9,677 positive citizens on the test, 200 died, 51 on the respirator, 1,723 cured citizens. Where are the others? These 1,855 are located in some institutions. When all that is added together, a huge number of people are missing. Where are they? What do we do every day to deal with numbers from the beginning? This, in a way, scares the citizens, when we look at that number and devalue what was called and calls an emergency, that we have saved a large number of Serbian citizens' lives. I often look at other countries, and I can tell you freely that we beat them in this. Although this was not for the competition, but when we look at some countries that have the same number of inhabitants, some countries that are economically powerful, some countries that were in a health sense much stronger than Serbia, that these countries have much more than those who died from Serbia. Maybe at first I should have said, about this incident. It brings me back to the time of 2000, when they destroyed state symbols. This touch that caught this flag and made us 200 and something made fools, blew that whistle without saying anything, that there was no program. What is his program – be smart and act crazy. It will certainly be the slogan of this gentleman and this party. Serbian citizens expected each of us to do some public work, not just a politician, but an actor, a athlete, and especially a politician to do something in an emergency and during a state of emergency, and when the state of emergency ended, to give some work report. I don't know what they were doing, except they kept threatening the children of Alexander Wolfie. And that someone is crying, and that crying very well knows that no one has mentioned his children and that the president of Serbia, we can freely conclude, is a endangered face in Serbia. I don't agree with the prime minister, she says - everyone's quiet. Where are your institutions? Should the institutions react to that? The institutions to arrest these men who threaten children. That's not even Italians, the biggest mobsters from Sicily worked. Who are you feeling sorry for? Why are you here? You're law enforcement, people. We have the law, you enforce the law. This gentleman, so it's not enough to punish with 3,000 dinars because he blew into a whistle and was thrown into the Rules of Procedure. But what does it mean to tear down the symbols, to knock down the flag, that these security guys, really, they barely threw him out? He was barely thrown out by people, culturally. I know, Vojislav Seselj, when he, I won't say he was making a problem, when he was fighting for his programme at the time, he was cultural, he wasn't fighting security, but every one of us in parliament then, we were both Zarko and I, we knew why Mr. Vojislav Seselj was worth it. There was injustice over him. (Vojislav Seselj: You were on my side? I was. I even defended you once because you weren't here and there wasn't a Wolf. She was Natasha. Right, Natasha? I did not defend in physical terms, but I said – wait, wait, people. But the second time was then, people. The second time was then, this time today, Serbia has a result. Serbia after this crown will be a country where foreigners will come, as you now have children and who want to go on vacation somewhere to look at the country where it is the least infected. Surely they will not go to Italy, Spain, and even Germany, but will come to Serbia. Furthermore, this transit through Serbia is very important. Now those citizens who once didn't have to go through Serbia will have to go through, spend some money and be filled with the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we of Unity Serbia have been monitoring and, of course, taking part in this. We were at the president's when he introduced a state of emergency and we were the day before yesterday, where there were a large number of political parties, at that meeting, those who wanted to go to the elections. What they're looking for, they're asking to cut the number of signatures, that it doesn't take 10,000 signatures to gather to go to the polls, but 5,000. Wait, then what are we supposed to do that gathered 10,000 signatures? Then they're double arches. It was a little short for President Vukic, and she was also the prime minister, to give in. Wait, guys, to please them? Here, you've met there in a way that, we've had to provide notes, we've submitted lists, and you know that in an 80,000 residents you have two notaries, and you have to collect 10,000 signatures, and other parties. How are those two notaries gonna do their job? Now the state has caved, so the signatures can also be certified by local self-government, or by local self-government. And that's what they were given. You're working against the law. You, the Prime Minister, are working against the law. What law does that say? You're gonna do this, and now you're gonna give the opposition this. Why is that? Corona's not ordered. We didn't create the Crown. Corona caught the whole world. Furthermore, when it comes to the campaign, the campaign says that the gatherings are returned to a closed and open area to hold the myths. They couldn't wait for it to happen. I don't know if you got it on that date. Why? Because they don't have a lot of people. They're looking for media, and what you're going to talk about on those media. Well, I guess I'm going to say first what I've been doing for four years, what I'm going to do, what my program is, and then the third point being or the third point being, I don't know what I'm going to call it, what the government was doing, the government and the president of the state. Apparently, they only know one message to send and think that Serbian citizens forget what happened seven, eight years ago and that they live in Serbia today. It's never been such an economic measure, ever. I've had a chance to hear from businessmen who didn't support this government, they didn't support Wolfic or Dacic, but they say, well done, here's 30 thousand dinars per employee. To them, a large number of families appeared to me that allowed their children to return from the countries where they were before the crowns. The government and resolute Minister Ivica Dacic, who was not in the previous session, participated, so I mention him and he was not in the past or on this either, and he was perhaps Minister Djordjevic, who was on the run all the time, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy did his job well. I have to tell you that responsibility for nursing homes or the gerontological centres must have whoever the director was. I called the director in Jagodina and I said, "Listen, make two teams for 15 days, sleep in a home, then in 15 days, another team." That's how it's done. And not that there's no one with Coronavirus, but no one complained about the disease at all. Less dying, less looking for specialist doctors. That isolation helped them a lot. In the next period of time, we have to, as doctors say, relax a little of the messages that are being sent to the public, so that these blankets and grandmothers still can't see their grandchildren, because we're scaring them -- run, don't go there. And he doesn't know who's more afraid, is he a grandfather and a grandmother, is he a son and a daughter or a grandson and a grandson? I listened to Dr. Nestorovic this morning who is a little specific but is much more professional than me and all of us, where he says we don't mention that second wave anymore. Because if we're talking about the second, third and fourth waves, we're mentally done. The virus's weakened, that's what you saw. The prevention introduced by the Serbian government was done maximum and the protection was very high. Now we need to see how we are going to open our border to those who want to come to Serbia. Let's get ahead of ourselves, let's get ahead of ourselves based on the data we have, and let's say -- here, you see, from your countries, the crown came to Serbia, and that's true, that I'm not speaking now from which countries, we have so many dead, that they're told that there were so many deaths in the homes and that we see that there are particularly some permission for the entry of interested investors. Today we have a minimum of ten investors who would come to Serbia to make a contract and start building factories, but simply shut down their borders and our borders. There should be no privilege, but a higher force with an interest that is related to Serbia and we should say, here I am, for example, waiting for a German, where we have all agreed, only to sign a contract, to produce parts for the BMW for the German factory and for the screws of some products. He says, "I will." How am I supposed to get there? Our citizens, there are those who have a habit of going to Greece, we cannot stop it, to see that Greece is a little more tolerated towards our citizens. If Serbia's families and citizens take their own risks and say, "I'm going to Paraly, I'm going to Halkidiki, or I don't know where, in Athens, to create an opportunity for these families to go to those countries." Because I am sure that this year the Serbs, if they go beyond the borders of our country, will be Greece. We also have good relations with the Greek government and should not be subject to our laws or their laws in general, but simply to build a graduation, a criterion that can come tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, etc. When we look at everything, good work is done. What do we do now? How can we help those hard - to - live agricultural producers? We need to see what these agricultural producers produce in the next period of time. They don't have statistics. Is it pig meat, lamb, calf or already I don't know which, but the information should be that way during the diary, what is it that is asked of goods in the world, what is it that the stock market asks for most? An ordinary man doesn't follow. It's supposed to be news in our diary. If we're still watching RTS, where he's just talking about the crown, if you believe me, I caught myself coughing even though I'm not coughing, because I've been watching for five days. I said-- I'm not looking at it anymore. Let's look at the report and know what we're supposed to do, what's called life, what's called a commitment, what's called a consumer basket. Let me tell you, no one's tax-free. The deadline has been moved, but the deadline will come, and he needs to make double money in some period of time to pay for what he won't pay in May, June and July. This should help these people, small, medium and large companies fighting. The programme should be offered, for example, missing, a programme for Serb gaskers who are still here. And let's say -- you, who are experts and have worked in some factory that is branded in Europe and the world, offers you the Government of the Republic of Serbia such a subsidy per employee, stay here. You need to do that already yesterday, because a lot of these people are thinking about coming back, what to do there, whether they're going to be fired from work or they're going to be reduced wages, etc. You know, only in Serbia the wages haven't been cut. In all other countries they have been reduced and the announcement is that they will be reduced. And other countries are scaring the citizens that there will be a disaster in five or six months. Serbia does not frighten its citizens. It doesn't scare them because it has a reserve, because the budget was domestic, which was spent as much as it had and the priorities were known. In order for an economically powerful state to survive, or some economic operator, or individual host, you must know what your priorities are, where you're going to spend money. If we hadn't spent money on clinical centres, on hospitals, on equipment, we'd have a few tens of thousands dead. But in time, prevention was done, and a large number of politicians said, "What do they waste now, what do I care about Nis?" How do you care about Nis? The one from Nis, from some village near Nis, by the time he gets to Belgrade, he will die as an emergency. It will be quicker to reach the Clinical Center in Nis or Kragujevac or Novi Sad. It's supposed to be our theme. And to call on young women to marry this country to have a future. Not the crown, the crown, running away from the scrawny old man. And we're gonna be scrawny old men once in a while. (Vojislav Seselj: The more young Albanians we bring in. I'm not for Albanian women, I'm for Serbian women. Vojislav Seselj: I am. The best women are Albanian women, so far turned out to be all the strangers we've brought. There he is, and now my brother Ivica has come. I was talking about you, you weren't there. Of course, I commended the entire government. Let me ask you a quick question. Mr. Dacic, let's see how to make it possible for investors to come, for example. Germany, Austria, even from Italy, Serbia, not to wait for the general decision to open the border, but to say - if that man wants to come, he can come the day after tomorrow, he needs it, that and that. Serbia is now the most interesting destination in the world, the most interesting destination in the world. We used to be, because we had the best conditions, and subsidies based on the value of the investment and on the number of workers and geographical positions and highways. And let's see, Mr. Dacic, given that a large number of your colleagues and ministers are hearing from you every day, how to make criteria not to wait and those countries generally apply to each other, for example. from Germany, if he wants to cross the border of Germany or come to Serbia, etc? That's what I wanted to ask you. The government and the president of the state have a high score of JS for what we've been doing. And we'll watch you win the election when we get out. We're a special list and we're fighting with the program. And that's the only way this Serbia can progress. The program to fight. The programme, the work reports, not the force struggle, to bring down Serbian state symbols, to enter the RTS saw, to beat grandparents on terraces, etc. Is that what grandparents are for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73819	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic has evoked memories of times when Serbian radicals were carried out from the National Assembly. Although his comparison may seem relevant, the differences are enormous. For example, when I was brought up by at least six police officers, three or four were enough for Boška. I did not want to tear up the Serbian flag along the way, but I always treated it with the utmost respect, but most importantly, we Serbian radicals defended democracy, the rights of the MPs, and for that reason we were removed, because they took away our word against the law, etc. I just asked Boška Obradovića – Bosko, what are your demands? Everyone heard that, I guess, counting on him to tell me what his demands were, so maybe we back him up, and he turned around and told everyone he didn't have any demands, he'd post-exposure, he came here to play, to seduce anarchy. That's what we're always different from these players. What makes us the most irrevocable and the current government of Serbia, which we resent most, I have talked in the National Assembly so many times in various televisions, in various newspapers about these crimes committed by the regime in 2003 in a state of emergency, killing it with the shots of senior police officers Dusan Spasojevic and Milet Lukovic Kum, after being arrested and heard. You're all quiet, and everybody knows, all the ministers in the government and the President of the Republic and all the high-ranking state officials that I'm absolutely right, that I'm telling the truth. You're waiting for obsolescence to go unpunished for the leaders of the last regime. If God doesn't let the publishers of that last regime come back to power, they have the experience that killings can go unpunished, and who will interfere with these killings? You should, until the date of limitations has passed, for October 5th is already close to passing, at the end of this year, and in 2003... Is this law changed after 2003 or earlier, so it's a 25-year-old age? You should know, Martinovic, it was 20 before. (Alexander Martinovic: After. After. So 20 years from now and all that was in the state of emergency in 2003. You can't let that happen. You are responsible to the nation and you are responsible for the history of this silence, for this passivity, for this inactivity. You must prosecute all those who are guilty of the law, who committed the most serious crimes, even if they were ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73821	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73822	Just a few things. As for respect for the Serbian flag, I think it is important that we talk about it today a little, just one two sentences, because this is still the highest national home and we talk to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Respect for the Serbian flag is something Mr. Obradovic still needs to learn. In at least two cases, we've seen absolute disrespect for this one of the most important national symbols. Once he tried to break into the Serbian Parliament where he was a MP. There are a number of citizens who gave him the mandate to sit here and defend their views. Instead, he took the flag and took the flag to the door of the National Assembly, as if the flag were a stick. Today he grabbed the flag to prevent what was ultimately the president of the National Assembly, so that we could continue to work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not here for us, but for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If someone wants to postpone the session because he thinks that he can postpone the session of the National Assembly as one, it must not, of course, be allowed. He will return to the flag as a tool, showing no respect for this national symbol. So the appeal to learn to respect the flag as a national symbol. Because that's what people died for, that's what our ancestors died for, the flag is respected and not taken into the hands of a stick. As for me complaining or not complaining, and whom I complain about is that some people are calling on the link between Alexander Vukic and his children, so, with respect, I can agree with the MP who spoke, the principles of sharing powers that we really respect, we have to respect the independence of the judiciary and respect him and we never interfered in it. You remember, probably, when this current coalition, which is in power, came to power that there was no initiative, nor did the National Assembly replace people who had performed any independent functions until then, nor did the Citizens' Protectors, nor did the Commissioners protect information from public importance, nor did judges and prosecutors. It has fully respected itself, and this ruling coalition seems to have given me a homework and a lesson to democracy, to all those who are invited to this democracy more than we are. So, the judiciary is independent and, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot pass laws, we can propose laws, but the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, must bring them, we also cannot launch processes and condemn people, however much they think they deserve it. Why don't the judiciary do their job in that sense and the D.A.'s office? That's a question for all of us. We represent different branches of power, but I agree with you. So why someone like that? Milovan Brkic, who said, quotes: "Do citizens have the natural right to kill a dictator? Absolutely citizens have the right to kill the dictator and Alexander Vukic will surely go that way. He'll end up this year. His life will end this year." That's the story of March 31st, 2020, and at a time of emergency and combating coronaryvirus. He says: “It is important that none of his people flee from the earth, nor the little Vulcan, nor Daniel, nor the militia, that they escape into the white world. If they escape, we must look for them, we must send people, etc." Why is that man still out there? It's not the government. I have to say, unfortunately or fortunately, but it's not up to us, but to people who are competent to fight a man like this, who directly calls for the murder of the President of the Republic and threatens his children, it can't be more direct... It's an attack on children, all those who cried silently the day before, and today they'll be quiet, when I remind them, they'll be quiet again. I call them now, I appeal, condemn, say it isn't, but how will they say it isn't when those of this same Milovan Brkic take information to attack the government, when what he stands out they repeat here in the halls of the congregation. It's an attack, and the government can't arrest that man or bring him to justice, because there's a judiciary. But, so here we can all go together, now that I've reminded them, we can all condemn this together. Just to see if they'll find themselves crying and condemning each other. I can bet they won't, but they'll talk good about that hypocrisy and that they exist in their heads of the citizens of the first and second order. They're citizens of the front row, and I guess we're all second-class citizens, except for Alexander Vukic and his family, they're not third-class citizens or fourth-class citizens. He's a man who shouldn't vote in this country if you ask them. And it's public, as of today and publicly, they say. As far as travel abroad is concerned, we will, as I said, allow foreigners to enter the Republic of Serbia. We'll go out on Friday or Monday with measures to ensure further protection of public health. As for the journey of our citizens, of course, and it will be possible, but once again, appeal to me as Prime Minister, please stay for the next few months, stay in Serbia this summer, stay in your country and support our tourism, support our hotel facilities, let's all fight together for our hosts, our hotels, our family businesses. I think Serbia is beautiful, has something to offer and please stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73823	Thank you. The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73824	Thank you, President. The Prime Minister has already said something about this topic that Dragan Markovic has launched. I would just add that even now without giving in, we have the possibility that foreigners can come, enter our country, because there is a commission at the government of the Republic of Serbia that approves the entry of foreigners. So if there's anyone, anyone, for economic or business or political reasons, who wants to come, it's still allowed. Also, if someone wants to travel abroad, as I said earlier, it is possible by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by their ministries, those countries where they travel, that there are special permits to cross borders in these cases and such examples have been so far. So if there are investors in Mr. Markovic or someone who wants to come, he can do it right away, not waiting for a drop in these measures. Just to add, I just read that Bosko Obradovic said this is his protest, because it is not the time for elections, it is time for rebellion. Let me tell you one thing, as far as their demands are concerned, they've always pointed out that an emergency should be lifted. Now that the state of emergency is lifted, they are opposed to abolishing the state of emergency because every opposition in the world is seeking elections. We're the only ones who have a share of the opposition with us who's actually running away from the election. And why is he running away from the election? Because he knows that the result of these elections will be devastating for them. And today's behaviour here in the National Assembly shows, not only that there are double standards, but that there are no standards, that the objective of obstruction of Parliament's work is obstruction at the end of all the efforts of the government and the president who have been in this period of the fight against the pandemic. You remember how many calls for disrespect, how many attacks, gatherings, and when it's forbidden, attacks on people who respected those measures and so on. I also don't want to talk about double standards, because standards aren't the same here. You know, when someone complains that someone attacked his children, and nobody in power has ever mentioned the children of some opposition leaders, and that the same or the next day you already have an attack on the president's son or other people's families, they're not double standards. It's an indication that there is no standard for Alexander Wolf. It means that it's possible to threaten him, the family, the most sacred thing that should exist is family, children and so on. So I can only understand that these are one of the last sessions of the National Assembly ahead of the elections. As you know, the president said the elections would be on June 21st and certainly that many of those who want to participate in the elections, and I would like to, and I think you from the SNS would like to love and can't wait for them to go to the election, too, because we would beat them all together with Corona. Just once again, I want to thank the state leadership that successfully led the country at its most difficult times, health workers and all those who have supported these difficult measures that have saved human lives. Look at that, take a surface view of how many people in the world are infected, how many died. I tried to calculate two, three days ago, and I calculated that based on those figures that 7% of mortality is at the world level. In Serbia, if I followed the presidents well, because I'm not part of this crisis staff, but I think Dr. Kisic said it was less than 2% of the mortality in us. You see that's a big difference and how many human lives are saved. So, along with this truly invitation to all of you to support our proposals regarding the abolition of the state of emergency... Yes, the president has a chart for the region here, where he says that the mortality rate in Serbia is 2.07%, in Montenegro 2.47%, in Albania 3.78%, in Croatia 3.93%, BiH 4.66%, Bulgaria 4.62%, Northern Macedonia 5.64%, Romania 5.98%, Slovenia 6.78%, Hungary 11.84%. The other day I was counting for Great Britain, it was 15%. This is the best indication that the measures implemented were useful above all and were successfully implemented. They couldn't be implemented if we didn't have leadership that cared about those measures and everything that was done at the time of the pandemic. So even today's decision is in some way not only a decision to end the state of emergency, but also to give recognition for the results that have been achieved in the fight against the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73825	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73826	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing today on the agenda we have an opportunity to discuss the decision to abolish the state of emergency in the Republic of Serbia. I will not use the word of the deceased from the pietate – excellently, I will see that I do not use a word good, because even if only one man in Serbia has passed away from Kovid and it is too and must be respected, respected and taken care of by the emotions of their loved ones, and all of us who have lost some acquaintances, friends, some good people we have had the opportunity to meet or lose the opportunity to meet them. But what must be said must be said that the state of Serbia and its leadership reacted in a timely, responsible, quick and efficient manner. It is not only the leadership that we are talking today about eliminating the state of emergency, I believe that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have respected the measures that have been recommended, which have been made by the Government and I will allow myself as a layman something that I do not like to play with and comment on, which is that I am sure that we would have talked about this earlier, that there would probably be a decision on the agenda to abolish the state of emergency or today we would have much better results, much fewer dead, much fewer infected, much fewer people in hospitals, that one part, fortunately small, irresponsible, irresponsible people, did not try all the forces to make the citizens of Serbia bitter and to extend what we had to accept in the fight against this unknown. We were honored that we were against our citizens who returned from abroad, that we were allegedly angry. That's not true. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia are welcome in their queen at all times. All the reasons why they came here, I don't want to bid, but it's one logical, probably psychologists can explain that move better than I do. They came to Serbia from countries where we envied at the level of medical services, at least what we were presented and photographed. Fortunately, they came to Serbia, and they didn't stay where they went to make money, where we were convinced that medicine was at a better level than in the Republic of Serbia. We were rightly angry with those who are constantly in the Republic of Serbia, but rightly angry with those who have returned, and did not respect the measures of self-insulation and quarantine isolation, because it is an irresponsibility that certainly extended the duration of the emergency. You know, making a decision about introducing a state of emergency in the event of a war is simple. Someone attacked you, and then you have no choice, the only thing you have to do is respect the procedure and make that decision. To make a decision to introduce a state of emergency at the time of the pandemic Kovida-19 is a very responsible and serious move, but I must say, first of all, it was brave and good that it proved to be one of the most effective medications to contain this pandemic. I wouldn't want too much on the economy, but I wouldn't want to think about what would happen today if the country were led by those who led the Republic of Serbia during the economic crisis in 2009. They didn't find it appropriate to help anyone with any pay, no taxes and contributions, no help, nothing, just take everything they could, buy a million vaccines, throw them away and barely admit they did it. No time should be measured against them, but neither should they be our rapper and baseline to assess what is well done and what is not. And it's very difficult to isolate in this entire system, which had to be transformed from regular to completely different modes of work. Is that the Serbian Army? Of course. Is that the Home Office? Of course. Whether it is the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, because at no time did electricity production stop in the Republic of Serbia, because if God didn't give it up, we would all be respirators, hospitals wouldn't have anything to power up to. Responsibilities at every level. Of course, when you change your walking system in a short time, mistakes happen. The mistakes were far less, because at this point the most responsible team, representing the state, was listening to the profession. Many had objections to the various comments of the profession, they did not like it, but it was the profession that gave its opinion. The opinion was very difficult to give, and the decision was even harder to make. We in Serbia have learned to fight the invisible. We shot down F-117 and F-16 etc, but we knew something about them. About Kovid-19, at a time when he knocked on Serbia's door and entered Serbia, and the World Health Organization knew almost nothing, so that his experience summarised in one place, which our experts could take to the table, shows that the choice of staff, its diversity, its different approach to this problem only allowed for the correct, quick and appropriate decisions to be made. We live in a country where truth is most important, and the truth is that in Serbia, without any compensation, under the exact same conditions, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the title, knowledge, property, family tree and vine, had the opportunity to heal in the same way. Even those who have encountered circumstances in Serbia have been treated as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without obligation to make up for something. This isn't happening for no reason. Serbia is a country where fascism will never find suitable soil and that is why Serbia has always been on the right side, able to identify every real enemy and respond in the right way. It's hard to express gratitude here to anyone, but it's health care professionals who really have suffered an extraordinary blow directly. Many of them paid their responsibilities at work, paid their pledges to those most valuable, paid their lives. That has to be respected. There must be a way for these people to remain forever marked. It is up to the President of the Republic of Serbia to do a serious and difficult job in as short a time as possible after this serious battle and to assign as one who is the only one authorised under the Constitution the medals of the bravest, most responsible, but to assign the same medals to the countries that first came to Serbia to help regardless of the amount, volume and type of equipment they have brought to us. Dear citizens, unfortunately in the Republic of Serbia, the law does not apply to all the same. What I'm about to say turned my attention to is that it's not even politically smart at all, that it's going to be a conviction on social networks, that it's going to be difficult for anyone, but simply we from the Socialist Movement are not hiding behind anything and what we think is just and just, and especially when we're convinced that it's true we are. The Constitution itself of the Republic of Serbia is making one serious discrimination. The only man who can't formally get a medal is the President of the Republic, because this is a country in which, according to its legal norms, it is the President of the Republic who can exclusively decide on the award of medals. What we think from the Socialist Movement is that Alexander Vukic, taking responsibility for himself, standing on top of the team as a serious and responsible leader, absolutely deserved a medal. We'll be ugly, we'll be on Twitter, but believe me, I don't care about Twitter. I don't care about their hate. I want all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be equal. In order not to turn out to be a layman, that is the only reason why we have not formally initiated the procedure to award the President of the Republic a medal. There is time, and we will correct those regulations when they are quieter and better times. It's not the only example that the law doesn't apply to everything. Why isn't the law applied to politicians as well as to ordinary citizens? If the prosecution had responded in time, even if it had fallen into RTS, we would not be obliged to endure this disgrace in the Serbian Parliament today. This is a disgrace to this home. Whoever did this doesn't know what shame is, and may he forgive himself, if he even knows what he's done. That's why I absolutely ask and expect, primarily politicians who have violated curfew, deliberately provoking in front of this house, to be convicted, advertised guilty, and if they deserve some things to go to jail. To tell you the truth, I'm tired of looking at a common, small man, who may have committed some kind of a misdemeanor at a time of emergency and by accident, could no longer control the burden of all this burden that we all suffer from order on our shoulders, made a failure, if he had to fly his head, I can't say hello to the big thieves without taking off his hats. There's been a lot in Serbia. Then they must either amnesty or pardon all those who are far more responsible, who are guilty because many have committed crimes in Serbia during the state of emergency because they have called them, called on them, provoked them to go out on the street to defy their own health, their own state, to extend this emergency without measure and without need, if they do not respond, then no one should answer. We've gone far and wide in front of the Twitters, in front of hate, in front of the truth, to write whatever they want, to say that I'm politically incorrect, that I'm half-tronic, that we're like this, that we don't touch me. They simply don't deserve it, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve the judiciary to take its tools into their hands once and do what was required to do a year ago and change days ago. It can't be tolerated anymore. We've had enough of our hats in front of Gilas and similar thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73827	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many different controversys have passed, events in the last month and a half that should now be commented, because there was no space, the Assembly did not sit. Of course, no one could have expected, no country in the world could have been prepared to face this kind of epidemic, or pandemic. No one could welcome it properly, to organize it, because nothing knew about it. In any case, somehow, it seems that not only did the whole Coronal virus situation be underestimated, but it first came to an irresponsible and irresponsible approach. So we had the opportunity to watch a press conference that talked about the funniest virus that only exists on the Internet and the recommendations to travel north to Italy, or Milan. It looked like an episode from the "Top List of Supernationalists", where a field trip to the heart of the virus is organized. Very soon after that, we came from the funniest virus to the longest curfew, when things got out of hand, or when we faced that danger. I can't say, nor do Serbian radicals claim that the measures taken were unnecessary, bad, etc. We could see in the whole world what measures had been taken. It was not very different from Serbia. What's good is that the key factor in all of this was actually people whose profession, or profession, was the epidemic of these infectious diseases. But it felt like there wasn't enough responsibility in the approach. Then the state of emergency was introduced in an anti-constitutional manner, i.e. the volunteering of the executive authority, with the free evaluation of the representatives of the state summit, the Assembly was suspended. There was no need for that, and that is one major anomaly in all of this, because it has completely suspended the principle of rule of law that should be a general thing that is respected even in times like these and crises as the crisis of the coronary epidemic of the virus. So, legal norms, legal institutions, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are older than any government, any executive government, and the people who exercise executive power are transient and they are obliged to do as it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's something that needs to be changed, to change the undemocratic consciousness in the understanding of law enforcement and decision-making. We also had several irresponsible reactions from your cabinet members, Mrs. Brnabic. First, what may be the most pointless, is the announcement by Minister of Health Zlatibor Lončar that, if necessary, Serbia will make a vaccine against the crown of the virus. What do you say to such a claim by the health minister in Serbia? Is this responsible, and do you need one man in such a place as an elder of the Ministry of Health who is able to make such irresponsible statements? After that - we'll help China, we're ready to help China if they ask us to. Could that statement have shown an irresponsible approach to our relationship with the People’s Republic of China? We saw what help we got from them when we needed it most. Is it all right that way that we make fun of them? It's the Minister of Health. The second thing that's been a difficult scandal in all of this is the minister of education's behavior. So, as the epidemic spread across Serbia, so have many questions, not only the protection of the elderly and the pensioners, but also the children. There was no clear answer to all this, whether schools would be closed or not. We've seen some school principals interrupt school classes just for the sake of fear of student safety. The Minister of Education announced that all those who did so would be punished, and at the same time the minister of education shuts down his private school for fear of spreading the virus among children. Isn't that the ultimate hypocrisy? As if children who go to private schools are more valuable and are cared for more than those who go to public schools. What kind of message is he sending from the post of Minister of Education? Of course, everything has stopped in Serbia in these months and a half. That was justified, because of all the measures that were taken. All interests have stopped, except for one and only, and these are public executioners. We have seen the recommendations of the Chamber and the Ministry of Justice, etc., but we have seen that the perpetrators, or some of them, have not stopped with the executions and have even made statements that they are only recommendations, or guidelines, that the perpetrators are not obliged to respect them because they do not write anything, that is precisely what Goran Veselinović, a public enforcer, said, and that he is not obliged to do so. So the government of the Republic of Serbia could have abolished, that is, shut down all institutions, all private companies that could not work remotely except public executioners. Are they then more privileged or stronger than the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is that another argument more to finally discuss their position in Serbia? Why are they so important to us, especially that they behaved so arrogantly during the time of the epidemic and the state of emergency? So we've heard a lot about the economic measures that will be taken, so to speak. The rain of steam, or money, falls from the sky, then we compared the American model in giving 100 euros to every full-time citizen in Serbia. The American model predicts that every full-time U.S. citizen who receives less than $75,000 on an annual basis gets $1,200, and every minor, or child, gets $500, and in Serbia, all full-time citizens are 100 euros, and underage citizens get nothing. There is no social access when the aid is paid. So that's different from the U.S. model. Here can one who has five salaries and the governor of the National Bank who has 5,000 euros and various officials in the state administration who have huge salaries, for Serbian conditions, as well as privates who are the richest to have the same 100 euros as those who are the poorest, or the unemployed who receive social assistance, and then pensioners with the lowest incomes, so those who receive the minimum wage, etc. Why was it not considered to be the most helpful to those who were most vulnerable, not to put them all in the same basket, as if they were all in the same position? Secondly, we have heard that it will be worth it to all of Serbia's adult citizens because it is a way to boost demand, to make less concrete citizens feel the consequences of our economic downturn, or recession, and that it would be good to bring it. And then we saw because of some tycoon that it wasn't really for all the citizens of Serbia, it was only for those who wanted it. So what is the objective of this measure of government? Is the goal of raising demand or is it the goal of fulfilling desires? If the goal is to boost the demand, then it should be worth it to everyone, not to wait for anyone to apply. Insufficiently thought-out measure and socially irresponsible. We have warned that the economic policy of the Serbian government has been inherited since Mladjan Dinkic, so favouring foreign investors who receive free land in Serbia, all possible permits free of charge and to all of that minimum of 10,000, and we have seen that there can be 15 and 20 and 70,000 euros per job subsidies from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are paid out of the budget and, therefore, foreign investors come to Serbia, do not invest anything, extract extra profit, and the Serbian government pays salaries to workers in these companies, which are often minimal, i.e. 30,000 dinars. Now for all of this, therefore, for one such bad economic policy, a minimum wage should be paid for all workers in advance for three months. Is it now seen how wrong this policy was for Serbia and how much will the government actually have to allocate money for the salaries it has already paid through the subsidy programme? And there's no choice, because if he won't do it, those strangers who came here didn't invest anything, it's very easy for them to just walk away and leave all those workers on the street. It was bided with the number of fired. Do we know how many were fired in private enterprises that received government subsidies? What number is that? Is that six thousand, 12 grand? Various numbers are mentioned in public. How can they fire any worker if they have a subsidy program? So they keep what they're supposed to get in the workplace that way. What they care about is our citizens and our economic growth, how much growth we're going to grow, whether we're going to be first, second, third, 50th, etc., they're going to make a profit. And we, if we didn't realize now how devastating that is, I'm afraid we'll never understand, giving so much of the generous to the foreign subsidies. Therefore, not only are they privileged in relation to domestic businesses, but domestic businesses are not competitive on the parent market, which is abnormal. We'll be first or in the first three percent growth. Man cannot help but compare to another state summit, which at the time of another economic crisis said that the economic crisis is, in fact, a developmental opportunity for Serbia. We saw what it looked like after a few years alone. Most fired workers, most closed companies, salaries at never less levels, etc. Isn't it possible this megalomania that we're flying and saying that we're going to be the first to be unnecessary? Why should we be first, and how do we know that, except what the finance minister tells us – I guarantee you? Let's see what we're going to do now, how best to resolve the consequences of what's going to happen, not for us to think about the future, that we're going to be the first, even if that's true, and it's not. If our growth is an economic growth, for example 4%, it is perhaps a billion euros, and the growth of Germany is 1%, it is 50 billion euros, then we are the first, and the Germans are behind us. That's our reckoning. Let's see what we're going to do right now right after the state of emergency is lifted, how we're going to help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia first and compete in these illusions of our economic development to leave for some quieter times. The issue of European integration has also come to a serious consideration. On a concrete case, we have seen countries like Serbia pass through, so they are for the Brussels administration of a third-world country, not only because of the ban on exporting medical equipment, but also the overall attitude towards our interests and needs. But what to say about the EU in 2020, when and in a country which is the founder of the EU, which is Italy, the Italians are massingly removing the EU flags not only from private buildings and houses, but also from state institutions, because they are disappointed because the EU has not helped them, or has not helped them as much as it should, and the greatest aid has arrived from China and Russia, as well as Serbia. It turned out to be our sincere friends and partners. So, the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, they're the only ones we can rely on in times of crisis. So perhaps we should thank each other in such a way that we no longer question the diplomatic status of members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. We saw that we were blackmailed by the Brussels administration not to do this, because it does not suit Serbia's path to the EU. What is Serbia's path to the EU? What can we look for after all this, and what can we get? Also, to become the key partner of the People's Republic of China in the group 16+1 and in the project "Train and Road". In that sense, I also welcome the fact that the Serbian minister of diplomacy was the first to visit his Chinese counterpart during the Chinese epidemic. It is a great gesture, but with this should continue and it should be our external political priorities, not that we can always rely on our friends in times of crisis, and when the crisis is not present then we meet all foreign dictatorships, or dictatorships from abroad that are not in our interest, as the issue of European integration is not in our interest. That's, I guess, after all this, clear. It is necessary, of course, to return to normal flows as soon as possible, and then to consider all these issues, because these issues are of the utmost importance for Serbia's future. Of course, and a question for migrants. We have seen here an unfounded attack on Serbs, or citizens of Serbia, who have returned from abroad, massively, to their queen. We saw dissatisfaction about it, by the state summit, and at the same time, months ago, no one in Serbia knows how many migrants are illegally entering Serbia on a daily basis, where they are staying, what they are doing. Citizens, primarily smaller places in the north of Vojvodina, that is, in northern Serbia and on the entire migrant route, are justifiably concerned about the large number of unpunished crimes committed by these migrants in Serbia, and on the other hand, Serbian citizens, under the Constitution, are welcomed here with great dissatisfaction. Isn't that why we need to take ourselves a little more seriously and change our approach to the whole issue? These are some of the most important things that should be discussed, and that things that are absolutely against the interests of our citizens may no longer be a matter of priority. Unless this teaches us that it is important to strengthen the national institutions of the state, health, education, MUP, military, etc., we can risk having a similar situation repeated with an even worse outcome. So, not to fulfill the dictatorships from abroad, but to strengthen our country and co-operation, or partnership with our sincere friends on the foreign political agenda. I remind you that we heard from the President of the Republic that Serbia was setting up health tenders to make EU companies better off on them. What's come back to us now, after all that, if that's true? So we went so far as to set up health tenders, and we didn't get anything now, when that health care was our biggest support.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73829	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73830	Thank you, President. Dear citizens and citizens, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and, of course, Prime Minister and First Vice President, I would like to say first of all that, unlike my other colleagues and colleagues from the United Democratic Serbia, I will look more at a part of the citizens who, perhaps, are the most angry in our country and not just in our country. I'm certainly going to underline that I think it's a good thing that it was a state of emergency, which is also a ban, as a result of the introduction of that state of emergency, because yesterday I had a chance to walk around the city and I saw that people had already quite relaxed themselves. Of course, I don't blame the citizens, it's a huge responsibility on people who have been texting citizens all along, who have often been dissuasive. People are confused, in doubt about whether liturgy will be allowed on Sunday at Easter or not, and that puzzled people and maybe somewhere, a guide to being irresponsible at times. But, yes, this should have been introduced anyway, because I'm almost certain that our health system didn't happen, and it, above all, was made by people, like every system, which is someone's mother, someone's sister, sister, sister, father, brothers, etc., that system would certainly have collapsed and, of course, along with the people who work in it. Otherwise, I'm a pessimistic person by nature, and there's a president and I have a similar feature, and we don't have many, though, but, well, that's one of the same. Honestly, my prediction, when all this started, was that in about two or three weeks, literally, we would have an apocalyptic picture in our health system and that they would stop responding and come to work and that, looking at images from Spain, Italy, we would experience a similar fate. Fortunately for me, it has proved to be in this very institutionalised state, which some people have once again destroyed, perhaps all of us together contributed to a greater or less, yet it has proved to be that some sort of toughness or resistance or resolution that characterizes us as a people, and, above all, humor in the most difficult situations, and what makes us look like a people, I really believe in it, but at the end of the whole awkward and every situation makes us winners of everything and everything, so I hope Kovida-19. Yet, in the 21st century, this pandemic has shown us one thing that can be said a terrible thing and not only in Serbia to care for the whole world, and although we are in the 21st century where human rights have never been spoken of again, we have a situation that we will probably never reach that level as a human species that everyone's life is equally important. I don't know how much you've been tracking the reports of the world's media, probably like everyone else, there's even been information that some states in America have recommended that people with disabilities or some person with mental disabilities, that they don't actually spend respirators on people like that. It is really very stressful to live with that thought, that if it comes to the fact that some selection has to be carried out, there is no clear criterion other than that disability that you will fall out in that selection of providing health care. Wanting to encourage few people to be responsible, because where our responsibility begins, where our freedom ends, where our freedom ends, does our freedom endanger someone else, and then someone else won't be a priority because someone else wasn't responsible, asked the question, when would you have to choose which of these three people you're going to put on a respirator, which is, say, a woman with a disability who's a scientist and is on the trail to produce a vaccine for Kovid-19 or a millionaire man who's supposed to finance that research, or a young homeless man who has the greatest chance to survive? We'll never serve who we choose, probably different people than different thoughts would give priority to one or the other or the third. Medicine has its priorities, which is that the chance is given to one who has the greatest chance of survival. It's a good thing we didn't find ourselves as a country in that situation to conduct a selection that has a greater right to life than anyone else. But it's not good that we're not, I'm talking about our country now, and of course there are much more developed desires that have had similar challenges, we haven't taken all that we can do to create measures, that through the institutions, through the resolutions that are responsible for a particular category of citizens, we do certain other things in the country to take appropriate steps in emergency situations, to which, among other things, we are bound by recommendations from conferences where we actually made recommendations for crisis situations for different countries. But we, leading to some maybe pulsism and some charades and some other things, I have to subdue those stadiums, there's been a lot of discussion when the budget for this year was adopted, and we haven't actually done the essential thing, to actually improve and prevent the poor health of our citizens. I'd be dishonest if I said no one paid any attention to the population of people with disabilities during this pandemic, but it was definitely not systematically and done in a meaningful and structured way. I'll say why not, I really think I should point out what I've done and who I've taken action with. In fact, on March 11th, before the introduction of a state of emergency at all, I addressed the Regulatory Body for electronic media with one request to make a recommendation to all televisions with national frequencies to start notifying our deaf fellow citizens, who use sign language, which is what it is. This population of people, for a month there was a story about Kovid on the news, so, modestly, they didn't know what it was about. Two days later all televisions with national frequencies had a translation, they still have it today. I also thank you for the rapid reaction of REM and all the TVs. But then what? We will put an end to the state of emergency, and these elections will pass, too, when television has the obligation to have a translation and then more translations won't be and our deaf citizens won't know again what's going on in their country, region, abroad. Then, together with the Coalition for Virtue and the Serbian Philanthropic Forum, we created a set of recommendations to the government. The government actually adopted most of these recommendations. But few of those government regulations were too late. For example, the decision that children with developmental disorders and autism can move on certain times when curfew was only made on April 13th, so that people with disabilities can move along with one person, was only made on April 20th. The Regulation on social protection institutions, or homes, was adopted on 10 April. So it was pretty late. In my deep opinion, the link that was most scheduled here is the Ministry of Labour, because there is a resolution in that ministry for the protection of disabled persons, and that portfolio should have prepared all these recommendations within two days, delivered to the government and adopted by the Government. We have only experienced from this portfolio that a "communite viber group" has been formed for allegedly informing people with disabilities about the course of pandemics and measures, but it is the one-way group, where only administrators can respect and the others can only read. I was a member of that group for three days. I barely made it, and I left her, because it wasn't a citizen intelligence group, but it was, frankly, a promotion group, not even a SNS, but more of a president of the state. We were always on that group when the president spoke, where he spoke, where he was visiting. It's okay, but, you know what, they're not people with disabilities, they're unspeakable and illiterate. We follow the news, we follow the media, so we know when who's hosting. I was hoping that it would be a group where people will really be specific about the movement of personal assistants, about transportation, about the possibility of a personal assistant visiting a disabled person during curfew, because someone needs support when, I don't know, they need to transfer the bed, the toilet, etc. However, this "communite viber group" has not served anything and many have been unkind about it. I want to point out and, frankly, I don't care how it's going to be understood, it's very important that you presidents recognized the importance of this country working more on accessibility when it comes to people with disabilities. The government's working group is formed and people tell me -- you're in the government of Ana Brnabic. Of course, I say it is not the government of Ana Brnabic, that it is the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll do the same as our doctors, who were there all the time talking to people at the conferences, who also failed, only in the fifth week Professor Kon mentioned people with disabilities and informed them, because they literally called me, in fear that one of them would end up at the Fair, because there are no conditions at the Fair, because of the toilets or everything. I'm just going to do a little dyspression here. It happened that a man who used a wheelchair, a graduate architect from Serbia, went to a interview in Germany for doctoral studies for an interview and happened there when it all started. They were all brought here by plane and he was without an assistant then, because you on the plane normally have that support, and he's staying at the Military High School, I think, at Partizan Stadium. He couldn't go into the bathroom for four days, because that high school doesn't have an affordable toilet. You called him, apologized, etc. I actually find it very patriotic of this guy that he didn't raise any negative public campaigns, but we asked him to be productive, and he designed it, because the architect, an assembly-detonating toilet for people with disabilities who can be transported from these temporary hospitals, in case we need it. I thank him this time. For me, it's a truly top patriotic act, far greater patriotism than torches, whistles, and even sherps. As for the sherpas, I'll look back at that we've also seen what it's like when you can't move, when you don't have a ride. These are all the things that all the citizens were missing and made them somehow likely to show this rebellion by banging into those pots. Believe me, for people with disabilities, this quarantine maltene applies throughout their lives. And I wonder what it's supposed to be pounding into for someone to hear this population? Because, watch out, the transport will still miss people with disabilities and when they start regular lines, because they can't get into it. The presence of cafes, restaurants, therefore, everything that every man lacks, is also lacking in persons with disabilities, except that they will continue to miss after the emergency has been lifted. To go back, it's nice of you to recognize the importance of working on it. I, as a citizen of this country who wants to live in a country that is progressing in every sense and which is European-oriented and therefore I am part of, frankly, a united democratic Serbia, because we are really a group of people who advocate that we all and the conventions and standards that we take from the West apply here for the better life of our citizens, I will always be on the side of the people and the state and make my contribution to the extent that I can do it when someone calls me. But the question is, what happens when someone isn't interested in it tomorrow or I'm not here or you're not there? It is not good to personalize things, to privatise things, as it was not good or favoring whether we were only thanks or most thanks to the president, we managed somehow to deal with this much better than many others. Well, I mean, countries in the region fought, and they have other presidents. So we have to believe in the system and develop a system and framework in which we will continue to operate, not to rely on individual relationships, on individual people and, once again, to underline, the Ministry of Labour, which, so can be said for decades back, serves mainly for some promotions. It's not a popular ministry. It's a ministry where you have labor strikes, you have war veterans, people with disabilities, the Roma population, people who are socially endangered, etc. It is terribly difficult and any reform in the area of social protection is terribly difficult and difficult. And it really has to be done by professional and dedicated people, of course, and all the other resistors. I only have one question for Minister Dacic before I finish. Some of our citizens who have residence permits in Malta have happened here. They have an invitation from the Maltese government to come back to work, who wants to work. But there wasn't much communication that these planes that were going to get our citizens to get rid of those people who wanted to go there, are they going to be realized soon? There's about 50 people out there doing business and these jobs are still waiting for them. Will there be a chance for them to return there soon? Furthermore, the rest and other topics of my colleague from the UDS will be spoken of more. I really wanted to put in an accent, because I feel like I have a duty, like someone who represents, first of all, a sensitive population of citizens, to give some kind of insight that the others didn't give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73831	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73832	I just want to thank you once again for helping us during the emergency and to draw attention to the problems and challenges faced by people with disabilities. I said we weren't sinless, we weren't even sinless in this crisis, we were wrong, anyone who did and sinned, especially under these circumstances. You're right, and I admit really my mistake and I take all the responsibility for myself because we're a little bit, not only about people with disabilities, but generally vulnerable groups, we later remembered that we're particularly involved in this topic and we help and we support these people. Thank you for putting political differences aside and for helping the Government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, not me, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as you said correctly, as you should, I think, is talking in a normal democratic society, as I hope we are. Thank you for putting those differences aside and for working together in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'm taking on the mistake that we got involved for the vulnerable population a little later, because, as you say, that's the situation all over the world, because we've been focusing on the majority population, but I'm staying ready, open, here, to keep working on improving the position of people with disabilities and all the other minority groups, however they are, in whatever area. I hope, after all, that you too will give a good example of how political differences can be put aside in the public's best interests. We all need to be here because of the greater interest of citizens and our country. Thank you so much for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73833	Thank you. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73834	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here today because Serbia has shown responsibility, sacrifice, seriousness and patriotism, high speed in the fight against the coronaryvirus. We reacted quickly in an unexpected situation, and I am very proud of our country. We have shown that we are ready for surprises, that we are ready when it is difficult, and we have shown that the reforms that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been carrying out since 2012 have produced fruit and that, finally, today, it is not only a dead letter on paper, but that we have a powerful state with powerful friendly ties built by Aleksandar Vukic, and that is certainly to be respected. I know we've talked about this a number of times here, but I also have to thank the Republic of China for more than 15 planes, the Russian Federation, the Emirates, the EU and all those who helped us at these difficult times, even though they themselves were at the same time. I am even more proud of our citizens who have helped the profession in one way, to say, selfless way, to enable the pandemic to be as relaxed as possible, to enable our health system to endure. They say we don't have experts, that they've all left the country, they say the system kind of expelled them, and then I wonder who all those people we applaud every night, who are those who care about us 24 hours, who are those who made the difficult decisions, took responsibility for the health of millions of Serbian citizens and advised us how we should behave and the government of the Republic of Serbia to get through the best and save the most human lives. So we showed that today we have a health system that has endured more than many systems in Europe, in those countries that my colleague said we have often envied. The army played a big part. They've been telling the two-thousands what the army wants us to do, we want to live in peace, we have friends, we don't need enemies, and we know very well what it means when you have to be friends with the enemy. That means you sold out. Serbia is not for sale. Serbia will never be for sale, and we have shown it with the army we have today, we have shown it with an army headed by Alexander Vulin, who recognized the need for an emergency, and it has proved to be a very brave but true solution. At a high speed of 7,000 soldiers, not medical personnel, they went out on the ground, trained a hospital staff in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, across Serbia. The army was fully available to Serbian citizens, which could not have been two thousand, when it was completely destroyed and dissolved. They say we didn't respond well to the crisis. They say we could have done much better, because the economy will be completely destroyed. Our human lives don't have a price. We take care of the little man, the worker, the peasant, the pensioners, because that's just who we are. This isn't a fascist state. It's not like this is the two thousand years when the profit was in charge and the robbery privatisations took place to put as much money in our pockets as possible. This is still another time: when Aleksandar Vukic does not allow workers to be fired, this is a time when there are reliefs for all businesses and the private sector so that all people stay in their jobs and we can all get through this crisis together. I want to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, doctors. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73835	The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73836	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will address you directly. This is not a speech, and I have no questions for the government, nor for the assembly majority who allowed the dictatorship to be introduced into Serbia, to endanger all human rights, to endanger your freedom, to humble yourself, to endanger your dignity and who have made this whole circus just for the sake of the election. Today, two members of the CID said... One said the virus was in Serbia as early as December. At the time, we had neither a ban on city traffic nor the closure of healthy people by house. We didn't have this circus with masks and theatre plays, and then that virus wasn't dangerous and it wasn't that contagious. Also, we have another member of the Crisis Staff, Nestorovic, who said that in Serbia, probably 50 times more infected than was discovered, 50 times. He's throwing a completely different light at this virus. The virus was obviously used to take freedom, destroy democracy and control people. This is not only in Serbia, but also in the world contexts. In Serbia, the worst case of it is. The virus isn't that dangerous. What we've discovered is that between 50 and 100 times more people are infected, which means that the virus's mortality is somewhere at 0.1%. It's at the level of all other viruses, colds and flus everywhere in the world. The virus appears to be more contagious than others and therefore it is necessary to protect old and sick people. Other important statistics we already know are the average years of the dead, about 80. It is a risk group – old and sick people with impaired immunity. These men's intimidations, the type of virus is worse than the plague, killing everyone around, are designed only for the government to, on the one hand, delay the election and prepare for the next and continue to scrambling citizens and the goal is your freedom and our freedom. What they're not telling you, what should be the headlines of the newspaper is half the dead in all the countries of Europe, that's tens of thousands of dead, half died in nursing homes. Half. In Serbia, a quarter of all died, respected citizens are in one nursing home, the Gerantological Centre in Nis. A quarter, every fourth, each day in Serbia dies at least 250 people. In cold and flu seasons, you're up to 350 people. Today, yesterday, every day. They made this virus a plague to achieve their political goals and to take your freedom and dignity. That's all they did. So, instead of protecting the old and the sick, so that the virus doesn't get into our hospitals, among medical personnel, into the gerontological centers, to the centers of the old, because there's mortality, there people die, that's our grandparents and blankets that were supposed to protect. What did they do? Closed a healthy nation in house arrest, kidnapped your freedom, destroyed your democracy. This is a dictatorship they're conducting. Instead of doing their job, they did this other thing because they needed it. They didn't save any lives. So, with their irresponsibility and the crisis staff and the government with all the crazy measures they've taken, they haven't actually done the main thing, and that's to protect the old and the sick. It's in nursing homes. What were we supposed to do? This is not what I have to tell you today, this is what we said on March 15th when they broke the Constitution and imposed a state of emergency against the Constitution, just for election. So this is what I've been telling you from the beginning, it was meant to protect the old and the sick, to introduce human isolation. What does that mean? Do not force people into houses, introduce a curfew, but allow them to, say, during the day, have an hour or two each day that stores can normally buy, that they can keep their distance from others and thus protect themselves from the virus. This madness they've committed has ruined the domestic economy. Who's going to profit? Banks and foreign global corporations making Serbia a land of cheap labour. Who's gonna pay the price? Citizens, domestic economy, entrepreneurs, family and small and medium-sized enterprises, agricultural holdings. They've trampled your dignity, they've trampled our pride, they're harassing us. This is a dictatorship and this is once again unfortunately a struggle for democracy. All the followers who talk about it today, from Seselj through others, about how the coup was carried out, have no right to do so. They've been silent for 44 days, the entire opposition. Shame on you all together! I won't wait for any replicas since they usually don't give us replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73837	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73838	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we are again after a few days in the same place with a similar theme. This time, the state of emergency, the abolition of the state of emergency, the return to new normality in Serbia, as much as possible in all spheres of life, with the strict adherence to the measures prescribed by epidemiologists, medical professions and all those who have cared day and night about our health, the safety of citizens, to get through this difficult story as far as possible with a smaller number of victims. And I can't, without mentioning the applause again at 2:00, and I wish that applause didn't last 20, 30 seconds, as long as it seems to me to last, at least what I hear in Belgrade. Multiply the shifts of these medics, experts, epidemiologists who worked for days, weeks, for almost two months. I'm talking about medics, but we don't need to forget the police, the MPs, the military, the utility workers, so all those who helped us bridge this difficult period. You'll say that you've heard this many, many times, but we need to repeat it many times, as long as that way of thinking, reasoning doesn't become our way of acting, that even after we're done, we're still grateful to these people, that we still have a special way of treating them and that we appreciate what they've done in this period. Those people are one of us. All those people who were separated from their families, who were at great risk, and I think for a long, long time we should mention all those who contributed in this way. Of course, special medals will be rewarded by those who have made a special contribution to this difficult struggle, and we must support it in a warm way. This kind of gratitude and this kind of response of society should actually be a lesson to younger generations who will only read and learn about this severe epidemic, the pandemic that has hit the world. They need a lesson, and we're gonna show them how they treated that lesson, how they taught them. This respect for someone who has done a great benefit to society on their own, it is something that we should learn, because especially fellow oppositionists, especially those who have abused this whole story, like Boška Obradovic during today, do not seem to know what respect for the sacrifice that people who have taken care of us these two months mean. This way of political abuse, where Bosko Obradovic, at any cost, makes a truly circuser of himself, does not allow the session of parliament to continue, means only one thing – for the sake of my personal interest and choices that I want to maintain whenever I want, you will keep the state of emergency endlessly until I tell you or my finances abroad. Notice, in Serbia, there is indeed an active, extremely aggressive group of people who are funded by imported money, with incredible media support indeed machinery. Those who followed the real developments these days and in parliament could see that indeed the journalists "N1" were so aggressively, after 15, 20 minutes, holding SNS MPs questioning them until they said what they wanted to say. I asked at one point to have a separate conversation or simply to write a reply that they wanted me to answer, because the situation turned into a continuous repeat issue, until I correct my answer in such a way that it is acceptable to the journalists "N1". That kind of violence and aggression I've never experienced, and here I've only been doing politics for 12 years, eight years intensely in parliament. I think indeed one part of the opposition that is extremely aggressive, which for the sake of personal interest tramples everything in society as something that is not touched, so here are the last days and children are the subject, they've all trampled, these people are serving a new way of behavior. As much as we wish that as someone with responsibility for the exercise of power in Serbia, he is aware that we need to calm the tensions, that we are those who are unreasonable, angry and boast, insist on their way, we are the ones who have to put the story back on track, ask him to sit down, talk, insist on dialogue, exchange arguments. We're you. And we're doing our job. I'll tell you now as vice president of the SNS what it is that our members' reactions are. You know there's about 700,000 of us in Serbia. Do you think it was pleasant for our members and our sympathisers, and there we are, to listen to pans and thumps and whistles from night to night? If there are those who deserve it among us, there are probably millions of people with sympathies and more, including our votes won in the elections, you think we've been comfortable? I, my colleagues here in parliament, government members, Serbian President and many, many SNS officials worked day and night, trying to extract the state, the economy, finance, culturally, in all possible ways from the minus we were at the moment we took responsibility for the exercise of power. And I was wondering, did I deserve these sherpas? Did I deserve this noise? Then some neighbors said to me, "Well, it's not for you, it's not for people like you, like the people you mentioned, this is our protest, because we want to get out of the house, we're sick of it." Let's think about what the sherpas were for? To get out of the home, that people are no longer in a situation to put up with such strict measures or something else. And get back to the members of the SNS as they felt. They asked, let us answer, let us not sit like mice in houses, and keep silent, and listen to the sherps, but these are not sherpees to us. The fact that several people said it was directed against the ruling majority, it was a lie and political abuse, and that's why we responded with noise, so Djukanovic went out on his terrace, not onto the roof of the building, on his own terrace and spoke for our members of the SNS. Guys, we had to answer, to show you that we won't keep quiet, because I know these sherpas aren't responsible for us, honestly, dedicated, I want better Serbia, the Serbia our children will live in, that they're looking forward to, that they're getting jobs, that they're born, that we're the first in the economy, sport, culture, economy, and that's why there's a papasian of applause for doctors, from the paws, from the noise that came after that. Where are we going this way? How is this going to end? If we need a big reset, and we'll be led up to the reset by some fatal big event, fatal for someone or something. I think that's where we're talking about the moment where we're serious, committed, where we're calming down the tension in society, where calling for a dialogue for all political life participants, we want to make a deal like we did about continuing choices, to see how people think, what it is that are smart proposals. Of course not all of us are the smartest and most capable people in the SNS, of course we need more smart proposals, as we have so far sat down, dialogue, we talk, we consider the argument. In front of us, it is said, 45 days by June 21st that I don't count on how much it is in the day, in those weeks we have to be serious, we can't let aggression prevail, it can be an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, don't compete, it doesn't matter who ends up winning, it loses Serbia. He's losing Serbia because smart people spend their time hitting pots. There are smart people who need to sit down, give their brains, their ability, their activity for other purposes and spend it. So I also call for reason, for agreement, for dialogue. I think that's what Serbian citizens expect of us at a time when we still count over two hundred victims of Kovid. I think just because we didn't have a few tens of thousands of deaths, because we didn't have Italian, Spanish, Swedish script and that number of victims that we ignored somewhere, we went back to living political life, conflicts, circuses like what Bosko Obradovic performed during the beginning of today's session. If Bosko did not hear, I would have told him that I had members of the Court across Serbia who are ashamed of him, the Dvori were imagined differently, not as a circus performance. I know that Gilas serves him daily what it is he has to say, perform, act, play, but this time he's gone too far. We need both Davery and all those who do not want to go to the election right now, because we are a modern democratic society in which the political will is expressed by rounding up the number on the ballot, your favorite, your political agenda, the idea is your children's future. If you continue to decide that the future of your children is to be achieved on the street by beating, threatening, insulting other people's children, wanting misfortune and harm to someone else, there is no good to anyone. I have to say, I want to talk like a mother. There are many of us here, and I think many of the women, mothers, will not favor, and it is the fathers who are to speak today, but all of you speak from your parents' shoes today, what is it that you want for your children, what kind of Serbia you want, and where will these conflicts and this boycott that you insist on bringing you in? Will your children be happier or just some foreigners, with lots of foreign money, convince you that with many foreign media, the more chaos in Serbia means more happiness for your children. Listen only to that sentence – as much chaos brings as much happiness to my children. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. The money that comes into your accounts will also be spent to make chaos in Serbia, while Serbia's days run away and we miss the chance of progress. That's my message, maybe pathetic colleagues who don't want to go to the polls, maybe you don't like it, but I want the best of this country, I want the best of our children, I want us not to forget these victims, I want us to be one of the countries that will be proud of what she ordered, now, much more respirators than we have proven to need. I'll always defend that mistake that we made, because we were afraid of the Italian scripts that were the least of the problems that the maltenes didn't have enough respirators, because now they didn't have enough room or trucks to take the dead. We seem to have forgotten, I can see it from you, because people in Belgrade don't wear gloves or masks. I don't have at this point to make better people hear me and we're already going back to everyday life. We need to get back to this new normality that requires new rules, respect and this campaign that awaits us will be with a lot of attention, with a lot of care, with respect for the advice of epidemiologists, the new normality is something that awaits us. But let's all be part of the new normality on Serbia's political scene, in Serbia's political life. The abolition of the state of emergency is something we need at this point, the profession said, as Prime Minister Brnabic said today, and it is up to us as the ruling majority to support this idea, because all the data and facts that have been provided to us just as they point out. Let it honor all those who abuse this situation for political struggle. Children, as I said, should not be touched by what their parents say or do in politics, and time will show who played with their family and children, to honor them. We're expected by extremely active campaign days. Activists and members, SNS supporters, we prepare in haste. We'll talk about the details of our campaign by eliminating the state of emergency. It is up to us to explain to the citizens why we did all this, and it is up to you to explain the shame of your behaviour, I mean first of all the Alliance for Serbia, which you really push Serbia among the last lines in this part of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73839	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73840	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, today I want to take this opportunity to thank the people who have been doing their job all along, who have been brave, who have been sacrificed and who have made it possible for all of us to survive this virus, to survive the state of emergency in as many normal conditions as possible. I thank the doctors, so the heroes, I thank the sellers, the shop salesmen who did all the time, I thank the cops, the communal services, the press, all those who did their job. So these people are real heroes. Today, when we end the state of emergency, I guess we should do some recapitulation and hear how and what happened during the emergency, to the greatest extent about how the measures were introduced, what was the effect of these measures and what the balance, let me say, of the victims of Corona. Unfortunately, there is no present in the Assembly of that report. Once again, the government is avoiding talking about it in front of the cameras, or in front of the citizens. There has been no written report since February when the crisis headquarters was formed, from that press conference when the advice was that it could go to Milan to this day. We need that report, that report has to be discussed, not for us to know what it was, but for all of us to be able to figure out what the mistakes were, so that these mistakes don't happen again. Corona's still among us, the virus hasn't stopped. Yesterday there were 100 new people, today there are new patients, and tomorrow there will be new ones. We need to analyze the mistakes in order to prepare for the second wave. Don't take the second wave lightly, as you easily understood in February the moon of Koron coming to us. Are we ready for the second wave? Do we have everything that is necessary and how citizens should behave? There's not a word about it today. We also showed you the last time that it was better to discuss measures in front of parliament, to have an expert team, to come to epidemiologists, that we could ask questions as citizens what we don't understand. If we had discussed this, we would all know the reasons for introducing certain measures and would have accepted them more easily. You've brought measures behind closed doors, decided at the Federation Palace and announced at a press conference. What did you say? Since physical contact must be reduced, we are closing Serbia and turning it into a barracks. All over 65 years are sitting in an apartment for a month and a half and they can't get out. Why, people? Why isn't there any humanity in the decisions you make? Because you don't care how it affects the citizens. If you'd thought about the consequences for the pensioners if they sat in their apartment for a month and a half on their immunity... What does that mean they can't move? What kind of diseases do these people usually have? What fear does that cause them, uncertainty? People don't know, what if one of the pensioners gets sick, not from Corona, how do they get health care? How can he achieve that health care because they can't get out of the apartment? Why couldn't it have been an hour a day for those people to walk? Why did you have to measure to sit for four days, eighty hours in quarantine, all of you? Well, we could walk every day for an hour. You, having seen that minority, which is less than 1%, violates the measures, then you have made a decision to put all 99% in jail. Well, it can't be because of 1% of us who are both responsible and disciplined, most citizens can suffer. That's not normal. There's a way to stop it, if people are in parks and if they're grilling, and they're not allowed to do it. They need to be punished. Those who organize torches should be punished. They can't walk in curfew. Anyone who walked during curfew must be punished, not that we put up with it on days and days of curfew. What hurts the most is that today this government doesn't have a plan. You, Prime Minister, are here alone today. Where's Djordjevic? Where is Djordjevic to explain how Corona entered the Gerontology Center after five weeks? Who's responsible for this? She didn't come in at the beginning when no one knew what she was and what this virus was like? Corona enters the Gerontological Center after five weeks and finally, we don't know how many dead in that Nish center, 40, 50. You didn't even give us that in your report. Where's his responsibility, and why isn't he here today? What happened to Minister Sarčević? Is he missing? He's gone. It's May 6th, kids don't know how they're going to take a high school enrollment exam. Nobody knows that. Is that gonna be online? It was an attempt, so it failed. How are the kids gonna get into high school? How are students going to get into college? Where are those exams going to be organised? Do you realize that these exams are due in June of the month? We have a month until then. They don't know what to learn, how to learn, where to learn, where to lay, and what to lay. So you have no plan for the future and you haven't explained it to the citizens. You may make a decision behind closed doors, but the citizens don't know about it. No one knows how to go to a doctor today if they need to, unbound by Corona. Are the waiting rooms full? How will the previews be scheduled? How do they know our senior citizens are going to be checked out? Who do you want to hear from? Is there gonna be 100 of them in the waiting room, and everyone's gonna get infected? You had a situation during the state of emergency where you say - four days you're all sitting down, and then there's a crowd in front of the store. If you had allowed an hour for a man to go to a store, it was in other countries, in countries where they couldn't move citizens, but they could have gone from house to store. If anyone can just go to the store every day, then you don't have a rush in front of the store. There's a hundred people standing in that line, those hundred people being infected by each other. They were making noises for no reason. Therefore, it was not disputed whether an emergency was needed, it was not disputed whether measures were needed, but the government had to make further efforts to enable these measures to be acceptable for the realisation of all citizens without suffering their health status. So you have to devote yourself to what's coming. I think this government is incompetent, that it can't organise it, and that's why it has to change power. You can't lead us through the second wave of Corona, because you didn't offer us any plan today May 6th. There's no plan by the government. You can't think of that. Understand the uncertainty among the citizens of what lies ahead. Not just health care, not just education, everything else, economics. Are we gonna lose our jobs or not, or are we gonna cut the pay or not? We've seen, three billion is a deficit. Where did we get those three billion? How do we get in charge? Give us a plan. Let's discuss this plan. Where are those experts who proposed measures today to explain everything that's been going on? There's no one here, you sit alone. You haven't filed a report, you've been talking for five minutes about how the state of emergency should be lifted. Yeah, and what's next? Where are your recommendations tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73841	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73842	Thank you. I can only conclude that you are a very uninformed man. Let me ask you, where have you lived the last two months? In Serbia? If you respected the measures, and I believe it is, and thank you for that, you could watch TV, monitor the means of public information. If it were, and with the fence, if you weren't just a politician right now, but you're being honest, you wouldn't be asking these questions. Why? Because most of your questions about measures are why they are adopted, how they are implemented, what with other citizens and all of this, these are the same questions and the answers are given during daily press conferences, first in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then in the Palace of Serbia where it was possible to provide safer conditions, or physical distance, every day. I repeat, every day there was a press conference where either the ministers were present, but mostly the profession, once the President of the Republic and once myself. These press conferences took several hours to answer all questions. The questions were asked by all media, so portals and electronic media, printed media, all media, radio stations. I think people are amazed at how many media and journalists there are when they see who's asking all the questions at these press conferences. Just because we wanted to show one extraordinary transparency and give answers to all the questions that anyone could possibly have. In parallel, we have made several alternative ways of communication with both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Crisis Headquarters. One of them, for example, is a Viber platform for younger people, where people could ask all the questions and get all the information, or get all the answers. In that sense, I must say that you, who have been in power for over a decade -- as you communicate with the public in times of crisis, how the media are treated in times of emergency and how citizens are informed. I'll remind you once again that at a time when you were responsible for this state and at a time when you introduced a state of emergency, and this state of emergency was introduced by V.D. President of the Republic, that the media was banned. No one dared, God forbid, to criticize, or to give any information without conveying word to the official information coming from the government. Now, compare this and compare daily press conferences, daily, every day of the state of emergency, where all journalists, all the media and the full opportunity, were invited, given the opportunity to ask questions, which they used, which is why these conferences lasted so long. How were the measures introduced? For those who have lived in the Republic of Serbia for the past two months or for a little while longer or who have stayed in the Republic of Serbia and who have been following public information means, more than a thousand times have been able to hear that the measures have been introduced by the profession, which we as the Government of the Republic of Serbia have listened to and fully supported, along with the fence that all responsibility is on us. The responsibility for the mistakes, the mistakes that were made, the sinless ones we are not, and the being who does and makes mistakes is on us. The waist is maximum. As I am proud of the transparency and way of communicating with the media and with citizens during the emergency, I am proud that we have not made any political decisions, but that we have listened to the profession. What's the balance, what's the score? I thank you again for that question. We talked about it last week when I was here and when I was with the ministers, when we were reporting about how we fought, what we did, why we did and what the results were. You know about these results, and I believe you asked me to, I suppose, commend us. But thank you for giving me one more chance to speak to the citizens of Serbia. So I think all of us together should be proud of these results, although, as the honourable MP said earlier, we can't say even when we have one single victim that the results are excellent. But our mortality is one of the smallest in the world and the smallest in this part of Europe, as Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic said. As of yesterday, the death rate in the Republic of Serbia is 2.07%. In this part of Europe, everyone has more mortality. In addition, our health system did not kneel, our health system remained on its feet, our health system, thanks to all the measures that we have implemented by listening to the profession, and to this day remains able to provide adequate care for each individual citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't miss the respirators, we didn't miss the drugs, we didn't miss the protective equipment. And today, the Republic of Serbia is one of the best equipped countries in Europe, if not in the world, as regards medicines, the availability of respirators and protective equipment. Now, that's all the balance and that's all the result. Preparations for the second wave, and we talked about it last week, already started an epidemiological study yesterday, and we agreed with the crisis staff profession. This epidemiological study is working and will be published by the International Medical Faculty of the University of Belgrade, indeed by our best experts and researchers. In addition, we also have institutes – the Institute for the Application of Nuclear Energy, which produces our domestic Eliza test on antibodies. We have much, much richer countries that have come to us, small Serbia, brave Serbia, the smart Serbia, Serbia that creates, to help them with Eliza's tests, antibody tests. The material has already arrived at the Institute for the Application of Nuclear Energy (INEP) and in less than 30 days we will have mass production of our antibodies tests. On the other hand, we have the Institute of Molecular Genetics dealing with the creation of now genetic biobanks in order to be ready to explore who possibly in the Republic of Serbia can, who is more individually resistant to such and similar viruses, who is less, that if there is a second wave, and that individual analysis of our population we have, so that we can evaluate, say, than medical staff who is on the front line, who comes later, also with the military, police, etc. We also have a whole series of other things, while, let me tell you, since you are not informed, I don't know how, I don't suppose you follow the means of information, and that the medicine that is treated primarily for the treatment of coronaryvirus, i.e. for the treatment of coronaryvirus – chlorokin, we also have enough for the treatment of patients who use chlorokin – lupus and other diseases, and for the current number of patients concerning the 19 and possibly another wave, because at this point we have more than enough needs for 42,000 people. We were as ready as one country could be ready for this pandemic before the first identified case in Serbia appears and we are ready for a possible second phase, if there is such a need again in Serbia. I'm sure you don't trust the government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't know what it's based on, except for some personal, personal preferences. I'm not particularly sorry about that, but I think it's your loss. You're talking about the election. I believe in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can very, very well assess what they did and how they did. I believe you will gain huge trust from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that you have put trust in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as I have not put my trust in you, because they have also seen citizens of the Republic of Serbia struggled with some crisis situations for more than a decade in power. Let's say, that's when the pandemic of H1N1 when the Republic of Serbia had 137 deceased. Today, if you look at what the World Health Organization says, the World Health Organization says that Kovid-19 is more than 10 times the virus and that more than 10 times the mortality of H1N1. We're ten times as dead as we are, we won't have them, we're lucky we won't be, even close. If you're talking about balance and results, well, here, we can compare these two things based on the completely objective parameters of the World Health Organization. Kovid-19 is more than 10 times more deadly than H1N1. On today we have 200 deceased by Kovid-19, then we had 137. I believe that you've been able to hand over this crisis phenomenally, except that this, all together, as a society, we've had a handlover or we've managed it more than 10 times better. I also saw, I am sure the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, your more than phenomenal response to the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009, when around 600,000 people were out of work. I believe that's when you turned your eyes. Since you've been busy turning your eyes, you haven't been able to try to reduce that number of jobs. But good, so I'm sure you're putting trust in the citizens, that all citizens still remember how well you manage the crises. And as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problem, as someone who works and in the interests of the citizens and I try to work in the interests of all citizens, whether they support the political option represented by the government, at the end of the day, whether I represent or not, and above all because you are a national MP, certainly, in every sense, above me, who I am here, the representative of the executive government. So I'm willing to give you the whole material, press clipping, media clipping, in response to all the questions you've asked me to see that the answer to all these questions is communicable on a daily basis, multiple times during this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73843	Thank you, Prime Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73844	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, that all speakers at the National Assembly session must respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and perhaps under dignity, the statement of truth, or falsehood in the National Parliament. We listen here at the last session and on this data that is not exactly based on the truth, and we boast that we are the most organised country that has the best approach to solving this crisis and Serbia is said to be the first to be convincing in the whole Balkans and in this part of Europe...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73845	I'll let you go to...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73846	I'm sorry, I've got to get the data out.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73847	I'll give you the opportunity to state, but you're aware, as a long-standing and experienced MP, that you're misusing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister didn't insult anyone. She didn't hurt you. She didn't say anything wrong. Nenad Konstantinovic will be entitled to the replica, as it belongs to him under the Rules of Procedure, but don't abuse the Rules of Procedure now. Here, finish it, it's no problem. I don't want to create any tension, to prevent you from speaking, but you know you're abusers, and for the sake of the citizens, that's what I'm trying to say. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73848	So if someone's making a lie, then he insults the dignity of all of us. The truth is, we've been through the best in this crisis, because if we want to measure normal parameters, the number of people infected in all countries in the environment is much smaller. So, according to the number of infected, Serbia is 10 places away from 12 Balkan countries, including Austria, Hungary and Slovenia. By the number of deaths, we were in ninth place. By the percent, or the number of deaths per million inhabitants, we are 11 out of 12 places, and only by the number of deaths we are in 6 out of 12 places, per million inhabitants. So that's not true what you're saying, you're speaking the right dictionary. On the other hand, would you please explain to me how it is possible that when a 100-euro aid is given to full-age citizens of Serbia we have 5.5 million full-time citizens, and RIK said yesterday that we have 6.7 million full-time voters? What difference does 1.2 million people make? From where, please? How did this grow in a week, 1.2 million full-time citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73849	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day that I hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Milan Lapčević: Yes. Thank you. The right to replica now has a National MP, Marija Obradovic, and after that, the right to the replica of Parliamentarian Neca Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73850	Again, the same story continues as before, the total confusion of the people who follow this transmission and our discussion, but before I say anything, I want to thank Prime Minister Brnabic for his patience to repeat for the thousandth time all this information you have been talking about and from the very beginning of the epidemic. It takes a lot of strength and energy, especially the nerves, to repeat the same thing for a thousand times, but it's very important, and it's now part of your work and all of us who support your work, to repeat many times what the real information is, credible, from the institutions in which they are taken care, in which people are being treated, by doctors, epidemiologists, crisis staff. That's the most important thing, repeat it many times. I understand the opposition will keep saying things that are not true. Issuing at this difficult moment to lead people astray, insisting that these moves were not human, that they were without any need, that they were harassed by the population. I don't see what the point is. If that's how you think you get the political points, I think this latest research, and that's what different research houses have shown, shows that tactics aren't good for you. It is common that, this has shown practice so far, that people who run the country at difficult times, especially if they advocate what the president of Serbia and the Serbian government are doing, that their ratings are growing, because people value, love and stand behind those people who fight for their lives. I'll do it again, just spit, jargonically speaking, on us, but we've kept you alive, not me, the mistake, the people who led this difficult crisis with us and fought at this point, they saved lives. We saved you, now, go ahead, so let's make that spit your expression of gratitude for this difficult struggle that we all fought, and for those who ran the crisis headquarters, both of us, and for us who stayed in homes and didn't spread the epidemic any further, that is to say, to prevent it from spreading. Another very important piece of information when we talk about how public disinformation is at this point, and I really urge citizens to resist that impression, that is, that challenge to be misinformed, because in the coming days there will be waves and waves of false information about how someone is not well enough, seriously, committed and responsiblely doing his job. We'll fight it all over, in every place, and repeat it a million times if we need what we've done, what are the figures that prove it. According to latest information from the Ministry of the Interior, the last seven to ten days have been brought in and fined I'm done. [[President: Just bring the end, please, replica.]] Incarcerated and written criminal penalties for about 120 people. So it's not true that no one's punishing anyone, that the curfew is being broken the way they want it to be. People have been brought in. And don't say yes, you only did that to people who are different from you. That's not true. People of a different political definition have been arrested, people who have sat down. Arresting is a very strong word. (President: Thank you. Then I must give Mr. Konstantinovic four minutes. I agree, if anyone asks me anything, because I think there will still be replicas. But it is mentioned that only one side is punished. That's not true. The people who sat on the steps of the congregation, who first opened the story, solemnly, followed the answers and punished all those who broke. Of course, not the people who were in their apartment buildings, that's a different story. But there are people who, at that time, were in violation around 20.30, and they were also punished. So it's not true what's said.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73851	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. Right on line, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73852	The Prime Minister didn't understand me. I don't think the Prime Minister understands her role either, and she doesn't understand the role of the Assembly. So politics doesn't communicate with citizens by bringing some measure behind closed doors, so you announce it at a press conference. It communicates with people and explains in the place envisaged, which is the Serbian Parliament. And it was supposed to be done in parliament. A report is being discussed in parliament. It is impossible, it is simply impossible that you came today and did not report to the MPs. You haven't answered any of my questions. Who's to blame for those 40, 50 and how many people died at the Gerontology Center in Nis? How come Corona gets in on the fifth week? How can our citizens, who are over 65, sit in an apartment for a month and a half, get health care when they can't get out of the apartment? Well, it's not just emergencies. People have some therapy. People have other diseases. They need a doctor. How do they schedule, where to schedule, in what way? Why didn't you explain that? What day is the entrance exam? What day is it for high school? What day is it for college? How's he doing? Where? Do we have distance measures or not? Where's that gonna be? Nobody knows that. No one knows that because you and those suggestions didn't come here today, that's what we're all talking about. If we'd all talked about it, it would've been more humane. How come it didn't occur to you that these people who sat in their apartment for a month and a half could walk for an hour or two? There's no rush if you make extra effort. You failed. You didn't bother. You have been told by epidemiologists that we should prevent contacts, but then it was up to you to prevent contacts by making pensioners sit in their apartment for a month and a half. Why didn't you make an application, like there are in other countries, and don't make it now, not for another wave, so people can sign up and say, yes, I've been walking for an hour now, or I can click and go to the store. The police are here, they're gonna stop him, the man signed up to go to the store. Anyone could go to the store when it suits him and there's no traffic. That's how you put the citizens at risk. Standing in line of 50 people endangers citizens. Why didn't you come up with a plan for us to live tomorrow? How's the public transport people doing? Do they have to wear masks? Today you represent the situation as if from today, Corona is gone. People don't wear masks. No one explained to them that they should wear masks, that they should wear gloves. Consider punishment for one who doesn't wear masks and gloves, if that's a way to protect ourselves. I guarantee you most, not most, but 99% will respect that. One percent who doesn't respect the curfew, which organizes the torch, punish them. You answered me by competing with someone. It's not your role here today, when we talk about abolishing the state of emergency, to compete with someone who was five or ten years ago. And what you said, you're just wrong. But it's not our theme competition. The theme is to explain to the citizens how they're going to live, give them all the information, calm them down and show them you have a plan. You didn't show that you had a plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73853	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73854	You wouldn't understand the plan if I gave it to you in a sketch, not in writing. I understand politics, or, well, I don't have much experience, but it seems to me that over the past few years I've learned and understood something, surely that every day there's going to be learning to understand, I understand the need for you to attack the government and that because the opposition is so casual and completely irresponsible you're making some suggestions, you say it could have been like this, like that. You're not carrying any responsibility. But I really thought you'd keep a minimum of personal responsibility where we don't say things by heart here, we don't talk nonsense. I guess we're talking about some essential things, we're serious people, citizens are looking at us, we have a responsibility to them. How do citizens go to doctors during Kovid - 19? Wait, MP, where do I start answering that? Well, not all hospitals are Kovid hospitals! Not all homes of health were homes of health that only dealt with Kovid. There were particularly certain, especially disigned Kovid infirmarys. All the other homes of health were doing their job. All the other medical workers were doing their job. All the other systems, phone appointments, e-mails, and all the rest of them remain to deal with these cases. I'm really wondering where you lived? Who do you know? Here, I have in my family people who have continued to heal themselves from their primary chronic diseases during this previous two months during the emergency and combating Coronavirus. They had no idea how to get to the doctor, how to schedule a home of health. I understand, believe me, completely astounded, I'm speaking to you in no way. I understand politics, but this nonsense, because you don't have anything meaningful to transfer me, I can't understand. It's irresponsible to me. It's really irresponsible for me. I think you and I look funny in front of the citizens because we're talking about things that aren't even a subject. I don't know if it's possible that you really live in Serbia and that in the last two months you don't know anyone who went to a doctor for some disease that isn't the crown? In that sense, you are, indeed, either unique in everything or you abuse such serious subjects for political purposes, which is one irresponsibleness, and another irresponsibleness, in fact, another commendation for all of our work is that you really have nothing to blame us for, but since you are an opposition, you have to, so let me think of whatever it is. This was reckless for you, because all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know someone who has continued to be treated during these two months. So, I believe they'll understand to what extent you're irresponsible and irresponsible. Elderly to walk for an hour. See, that sounds fantastic. You're not the first to call and suggest. You're one of many. There were such appeals. And whenever there were such appeals, primarily via Twitter, because it's a way of communicating with citizens and with the government of many, unfortunately, political groups. Those who are more honest said -- we don't know what the profession thinks about it, we haven't asked anyone professionally, we don't know if it's safe, but we think it would be a good idea. Okay, I think that would be politically opportune. I think a lot of citizens would say hello. I think that would give me a political reward, which I believe you're trying at this point, but that would be extremely irresponsible. This would be extremely irresponsible because the older citizens, who were the most vulnerable population, would be much more exposed, would become more infected and have much greater mortality. We were able to put two things on each individual day of this struggle. We've never put on one side how much something political is good, politically opportunized, how popular something is going to be on the other side of what the risk to human lives is and then to measure it. We say, in, this is very political opportunism, there's some risk of human lives, but it's really politically tempting, people will love us, we'll get more votes, it'll be good, if someone dies, what to do. We never did it. Never. Always, always at every moment during this struggle, we put human life and one single human life in the first single, uncircumcised place. We knew that many of these things, many of these measures would be criticised in the way you are criticizing them today and that everyone would just wait for this to go away to attack us if the measures were too restrictive, you could let people walk around, why you were just closing up over 65 years old in the house, they would survive anyway. No, no, sir, a lot of them wouldn't. It would be politically opportune, but it would cost us our lives. We'd have a blood tax, or a toll on human lives, as Dr. Srdja Jankovic put it. No, I don't. If you brought me back again for two months earlier, I'd say no again. Yeah, I understand it was hard, it was necessary, we were saving people's lives, and that unbearable irresponsibility, so maybe they could walk for an hour. Have you spent any time with a doctor, have you checked with an epidemiologist, an infectologist, with some professional face, would you give your reputation to see, if that would cause the deaths of those older citizens, who would be guilty? We were responsible for those lives and preserved them. As for homes for old, gerontological centers, it was extremely difficult for me to get Kovid into some gerontological centers. I knew it was inevitable. It happened in all countries, just like it did for medical institutions. It's just that some things are impossible to prevent. We've done so much, we're not 100%. It was extremely difficult when it happened, especially at the Gerontological Center of Nis. Can you prevent every human abuse, every human nonsense, every mistake? No, and you also know you can't. I said, and it's not just that director of that gerontological center that's guilty, although he's the most guilty, and he's gonna take the biggest responsibility. It is also the fault of those who insisted on entering to see their parents, some of them health workers. It's also the ones who insisted that their parents let them out of that gerontological center to see them, because they came back from abroad and didn't see their parents for long. It's everybody's fault. Is there a responsibility of the government, of the ministry? I'm not running away from it. It's about people's lives. I'm not running away from it. If there is a responsibility of the ministry, there is, above all, my responsibility as Prime Minister. I think we did everything in our power, everything in human power to prevent it, to give clear instructions, clear binding instructions, to explain them. I'm not running away from that either. After all, the citizens will be wondering about all that. I know how much I fought. I know how much President Wolfie fought. I know how much we all fought together, and I expect, indeed, from the citizens, in the end, to give judgment about this fight and our pawnage. Finally, come on, thank you for talking about the app on the click right now, thank you for remembering some software, some applications that facilitate the lives of citizens, maybe electronic administrations. Do not speak to me about applications on click and how it can be fixed because, while you were responsible for this country and for the quality of life of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, a copy of the parent book was not obtained by clicking, but by paying bus drivers to bring a copy of the birth certificate from the middle where you were born. We didn't have any simplest electronic service. Why? Because you don't care how hard or easy it is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live, how hard or easy it is for them to reach the services provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government and all of us together, and today, after all we've done, on the click they can mostly get almost everything, we haven't finished that job, we still have a lot of work to do, but minimum can get seven million more services from the house, on the click, but while you were responsible and while you were at their service, and when you haven't even managed to introduce a POS terminal to pay someone in line with a payment card, so they don't get out of that line, go to the post office and the bank, and then wait for order again. Thank you for remembering the apps on the click. We've been taking care of it for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73855	Thank you. The right to replica has a National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, a direct address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73856	Dear Prime Minister, in the first sentence, you managed to say how stupid I am. It's a good thing you insulted me, but you've offended all the citizens who think the way the UDS thinks and all the citizens who want to ask these questions, but they can't ask them because you're hiding and you won't file a report, so this is a unique opportunity to ask you some questions. Responsibilities are certainly in power and cannot be responsible for those who cannot decide and who is not in power. I think it's clear to the citizens that what we're saying is right. You're not able to talk, probably, and that's why you're holding a 15-minute monologue, and you're not going to let us discuss topics. You're talking about how you invented apps. You didn't make them up. The world has developed long before Serbia, and in this respect we are behind the world. I hope we catch up with him. It didn't occur to you to take advantage of what you can and to make life easier for the citizens through these applications. It didn't occur to you. It didn't occur to you to stop the crowds from happening and that people were standing in line and at risk of being infected. It didn't occur to you, and that's why you didn't do it, and you're not doing it today, and that second wave is coming. They say the epidemiologists will come. You don't tell the citizens that you're going to develop it. You don't really think about ordinary people's lives at all. I think you're completely separated from reality. What kind of therapy, when they can't get out of the apartment? How do I go to the doctor? What, call an ambulance? How do they get out of the apartment? You haven't given them a chance out of your apartment in a month and a half. Everyone would have died if they could have walked for a month. Are you considering the consequences these people had, their immunity, now? So the measures needed to be introduced. It's a difficult situation, but you have to think about what it takes for citizens to survive in a human way? So don't talk about not being able to walk pets for three weeks, and then after three weeks they can walk twice a day. They could have been twice a day from the first day; you had no idea, for you did not do it. They told you - distance, you made a decision as if we were all in the army and made a barracks of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73857	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73858	I'm not really in politics long enough to understand that kind of shame at all. Are you telling me about Serbia being late for the world in the implementation of e-Government? If you were to tell me about it, you who failed to transfer the parent's books into electronic form, but it was all in paper? That you have a face, a personal, a personal one to tell me that Serbia is late? So where were you? So where were you? What was difficult to arrange for the parent's books to be transferred into electronic form, to connect the databases and not ask citizens at all, as we did? So where were you? I don't understand you, really. You're telling me about apps, so one thing didn't exist electronically. So have enough, indeed, to be honest enough with one another. Well, here's the thing. So tell me you didn't do anything at all. There's no one, one, one minimal thing. But the good thing about it is that it really speaks more of what you said and that all citizens know when the electronics administration started, so it's not. And thank you for speaking so openly, because when you say something like that they see your credibility in many other things that you claim here. All the rest of this, so what you're saying is that the dialysis hasn't continued, well, of course it's continued. Emergency operations continued. All operations other than those needed for life have been abolished. Dialysis continued, treatment continued, chemotherapy continued, radiation continued. People kept living and of course they could go to the doctor. And even during curfew, people could leave and have a doctor's appointment. Of course they could have gone to the doctor. That you don't understand what's been going on in the last two months, that you have such a privileged life that you don't understand how an ordinary citizen lives, whether he can go on dialysis or not. Can she go to the doctor or can't? Only 11,000 people have been examined on VMA. Every day, about 300 patients were dialysisd. Today, in military school, they passed a graduation exam. Next week's admission to the Military Academy. The kids were getting into kindergarten, you know why? Well, that's because we've released an electronic kindergarten service. For school, too. So where do you live? You told me something else I wanted to answer, I apologize now, I'll remember, and I'll answer you, but really believe me, I'm amazed by the shame you're telling me things like this. But, well, I believe the citizens will know they appreciate both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73859	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word is Nenad Konstantinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73860	So, since in this replica you've brought a few insults to my account personally and at the expense of the citizens, I don't think we can talk like that, or continue to talk. Of course, citizens will assess who's right. What is certain is that you have shown now that you have no answers to these questions and that you have no plan at all how citizens should behave and how they should live and how they will overcome this crisis. I don't think that's right, not to say it's a shame for the Prime Minister to address the MPs and the citizens of this country in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73861	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73862	Yeah, I remembered, I'm sorry. Another amazing example of this, I really don't know where you live, under any circumstances, but apparently much more privileged than any other citizen of this country or most of the other citizens of this country. So you resented me for walking dogs, pets. How is it possible that after three weeks they could walk on certain times, and before that, they couldn't walk? Really? They could always walk. The only difference was that before it was not that much of a movement ban, so when we introduced a longer movement ban, then we're special times. Before that, they could walk at any moment, except during curfew, which was only at night. Guys, where do you live? Sir, MP, please tell me where you live, what world do you live in? If you have pets, who's walking your pets? How do you not know how people are normal, ordinary people, citizens go to doctors every day? How come you don't know the basics of a normal citizen's life? How do you fight for their rights? By not fighting for their rights, but for the rights of some privileged who, like you probably don't know when to go to the store, or when to walk pets, or when to go to a doctor, or how to make appointments with a doctor. Since none of this has changed, I wonder how did you know how to make an appointment with a doctor by now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73863	Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's move on with the debate. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73864	Dear Vice-President of the RS, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia faced one of the most difficult and dangerous monsters in Serbia's recent history, with Kovid – 19. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, proposed certain activities to prevent Kovid – 19 in February. That's what our political opponents know, and they pretend they don't. Noting the danger for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, and unable to meet the NS RS, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the President of the NS RS, Mrs Maja Gojkovic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, have declared the state of emergency in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the people's MPs, however, is part of the leader of opposition political parties and groups, part so-called. journalists, analysts, charlatans, certain so-called intellectuals and so on. self-proclaimed elites, he urged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to boycott the crisis staff and the government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against Kovid – 19, so that as many of our citizens as possible are dead and infected and accused of it by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic and the current government, which the human mind cannot comprehend. These same opposition men attacked the ugliest and most ground-based way our heroes, health workers, our militia, our Serbia Army, our Crisis Headquarters, our educational workers and all those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who stood on the defensive of the country in battle for their citizens and the state of Serbia. It is not necessary, honourable citizens, to surprise you, because in our past, unfortunately, there have been constantly those who were on the other side of the defenders of the country, such as these individual leaders of the opposition parties today. I'll just mention one piece and try to be precise, and I invite them to deny me whether it's true what I'm going to say or not. One of them is Dragan Gilas in Serbia, and in Europe Dragan Gilas, because there are two passports, there he is ashamed to say that Gilas, a people known as the Gjiki Mafia, is. He attacked Dr. Kona and his fellow health workers over a proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to fight Kovida-19, who proposed his crisis staff, because he wanted Serbia to have as many patients and dead as possible. He attacked him because Dr. Kon loves his people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and his country and because he stressed the importance of healthcare workers, the importance of the state of Serbia and the president of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, in the fight against Kovida-19. On 16 April, Mr. 2020, Gilas, quoted me as saying: "I am shocked by what Dr. Kon said, Doctor, what is happening to you, you said that without the support of the government and President Vukic, we would personally be in a catastrophic situation. What kind of support are you talking about for this government? What did this government do? Who do you support? “, ” finished the quote. I invite you, Mr. Gilas, in Serbia, and in Europe, Mr. Gilas, to deny whether or not it is true, whether you have said this or not. Gilas is otherwise constantly working against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Remember, respected citizens, when Djiki, 13 August 2009, and I often pointed out that in this high house, in a conversation with the US Embassy of Belgrade's emissary, Jennifer Bras, I quote: "I am in favour of the arrest of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija. “, ” finished the quote. I repeat once again, the last part -- and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija, finished the quote. Is it true or not, Mr. Gilas, and in Europe, Gilas, deny this publicly wherever you want, on whatever television you want, and you can do it on your "N1 CIA"? Furthermore, if Gilasu didn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, his proposal that pensioners go at the same time for an hour, at the same time, watch out for a walk, which he would like to send to the cemetery across the Republic of Serbia, watch out for an hour, but at the same time in the course of the epidemic. That Gilasu does not care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, shows that in December 2019 he wrote to Manfred Weber, the head of the European People's Party's Parliament group, in which he expressed his dissatisfaction with Weber's praises, on behalf of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and asked him, quote: "Do you know what country you were in? “, ” finished the quote. Mr. Gilasu, shame. Is that how you talk about your country? You always had Serbian citizens as the last hole in the play. You pray to say, in the name of any MP, of any member of the government, or even of the president of the state, but to defile his country, it was not in the history of Serbia, but in this part of the opposition circles. Is it true that this is true and that Điki said he would not help the citizens of Serbia from those of his 619m euros that he estranged from the citizens of Serbia at the time of the fight against Kovida-19 and the state of Serbia, but rather from UNICEF, because I quote: "I don't trust the state," the quote concluded. I quote, "I don't trust the state," finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister, honourable MPs, can you believe that this was said by Dragan Gilas? He may have mistrust in me, in you, but in his country, that human mind cannot comprehend. A Greek philosopher, when he was persuaded to flee from prison, says - I will not, I will obey the laws of my country, because I respect it. How do you respect the laws of your country? How long do you keep to your country? Did you see him moaning, crying and threatening when his cameraman through the video to tell you he can. In advance, he prepared an operation to attack the children. Responsibly... He played on video that he was shaken, because his children were scared when they heard the chanting, Gilas the thieves. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, have been calling for years for the murder, rape and arrest of Vucic's children, and would now be representing himself as victims. Replace thesis. In doing so, I underline, no one in power has ever mentioned Gilas's children and anyone's children in this country. I'm responsible for that, if it is, let them come to this high house freely and deny it. Dragan Gilas called on April 28th, believe it or not, in 2020, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to boycott the ban on movement during the first seasons and thus, for who knows which time, showed that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia do not mean anything to him, unfortunately, but nothing at all. It's Dragan Gilas, and he could still talk for hours, but we're moving on. Believe it or not, and is joined by his academician Dusan Teodorovic, called the earthquake. Why? Let me remind you, because when the name of President Alexander Vukic is mentioned, he shakes his head like this and then the citizens ask me – is that the academic who shakes his head with hatred, etc. He was visiting the "N1 CIA", on March 11, 2020, fiercely attacked medical professionals and health workers only because they love their people and the state of Serbia. Then he said, believe it or not, but I will give a quote: "I don't trust medical experts if they are Dr Branimir Nestorovic, he is not an expert in medical science. “, a finished quote, which is a notorious lie. Can you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believe this is said by a professor, a regular professor of the Faculty and academician of the Serbian Nuka Academy? He attacked Dr. Nestorovic. You know why? Just because he loves his country and got in front of the lines in the fight against Kovida-19. Dr. Nestorovic did not escape, as did academic Todorovic during the bombing and his country and left and returned when the battle was over. This respected academician Dusan Todorovic, the moral gromada, attacked a brilliant actor in 13.10.2009, you remember, Nenada Jezdić, just because Jezdić expressed love for his father's success, because he played a role in opening the highway "Milos Veliki" and added, quote: "I will never buy his, otherwise, excellent rakija". It's a finished quote. Do you, respected Serbian Academy of Science and Professors of the University, believe this is pronounced by an academic? Dear colleague, Professor, go on the TV screen to the duel wherever you want and tell me if you said it or not. What to say about the academic who said he was going to tear down the buffer, I quote: "TV Pink", and I quote further: "It needs to be leveled with the ground as in Schiller". It's a finished quote. Well, he has experience in 2000, and during the bombing, they did the same thing, seduced the people, fled and left the people there on the ice, so to speak. They joined, believe it or not, and already you know, respected MPs, respected citizens, Marinika Tepic, a pigeon flyer. Why do they call her a pigeon flyer? Because she's already changed 10 parties in three years. In the evening, he lays down in bed in one political party, and wakes up in the morning in another political party. By the way, now that she's gone over she has the name and the electric rabbit of Dragan Gilas, because she reacts to the button, as soon as he presses the button, she reacts by spitting down the government and her country. She has no shame or shame at all, because she constantly attacks in the most ground floor with fiction, both the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic and his family. It also produced a lie on April 2, 2020. Be careful, honourable MPs, when she lied, I quote: "On 2 April 2020, patients received at Panchev General Hospital, nine of whom were positive for COVID-19". It's a finished quote. That's what she said. It is true that, I quote, "All patients were then negative at COVID-19", according to the General Hospital of Pancheva, on the basis of the reference of the National Laboratory of the Institute "Batut". Not even a minimum, but not a minimum of civilization culture has shown, and she hasn't apologized at least to those health workers at the General Hospital. Mrs Tepic, I am speaking to you, or Mr. Vice President Arsic, I am speaking to you to pass on Mrs. Tepic, there are still chickens waiting for her in Morovic, to visit them, to make sure there are no drugs there. This lady knows nothing but to lie, threaten and vulture. They're pathetic, Mrs. Tepic, those Euros you get for the disgusting lies you say about Alexander Vukic and his family, about the government and the Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, poor and poor. The citizens recognize it very much. He joined them, believe it or not, and I can see that the MPs on my right are already shouting, Janko Veselinović, professor of the state called the landlord. Let me remind you, it's the one who stole the apartment in Obrovac Milica Baci on the street of the Kurijaković Brothers. Nine, otherwise refugees, and he wasn't the one. After 20 years, I hear he's returned his apartment now after our criticism. The university professor, teaching law science, said on 27 April 2020, "I will seek an assessment of the constitutionality of the state of emergency and the measure of closure of Serbian citizens." It's a finished quote. Respected law students, respected law professors, present the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to your professor and warn him of Article 200. The Constitution might read it that way. This statement was directed against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because it was against the introduction of emergency measures, especially against 1,700,000 pensioners and constitutional order of the Serbian state. Madam President, you, the president of the state and this government have preserved 1,700,000 pensioners. It is also recognised by a part of the honourable and honourable opposition MPs and is recognised throughout Europe by many states and many governments, even by some organisations. They were joined by journalist Lalic, who presented a series of lies about Serbian healthcare workers. She told the Vojvodina Clinical Center, quoting: “There is a chronic lack of basic equipment at the time of the pandemic before the shooting, without protection for nurses. ” It's a finished quote. Respected Serbian citizens, the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, of course, reacted and notified the prosecution and police, as it harassed the public during an emergency, i.e. the pandemic. Pay attention to what comparison I'm going to make with this lady. That great journalist didn't write a word about the health system during the former government when we were last in Europe, we didn't even get on the list. Support, believe it or not, she's been given what's-his-name. journalist of the Independent Association of Journalists, it seems to me that he is run by that semi-innovator Bodruzic, Vesne Malesic, I have no words, Culibrka. Imagine, if he had the honour and the morale, he would go public on one of the national televisions and apologized to Aleksandra Vukic because we reached an average salary in December of 500vre, and he told all citizens that he would resign. I invite him, Mr. Culibrk, to have minimum dignity, to resign in that once great list, and today he fell to the low branches. Philip Schwarm, I call upon him, to reveal his real name and last name, why is the pseudonym Philip Schwarm? I don't have time to talk about it. She won the Lalic Prize for the objectivity of the so-called. Now I'm going to compare, pay attention, and the journalist Filipović Miroslav's award for so-called. objectivity. He was even declared journalist of the year. The correspondent was "Today", the notorious "Today" and otherwise "BIRN", not to mention what BIRN was doing in the past. But this Serb kept writing to the foreign press, I don't have time to quote it to you, but also in our home about so-called. The alleged criminal activity of Serbian forces in Kosovo and Metohija during NATO bombing. His statements, only for a short time, came down to the following lies: "The Serbs have cut off the heads of their underage children in front of the parents of Albanians". That's what that reporter wrote. "Then the headless bodies sold to their parents for 5,000 marks at the time. “ Next, “at least 800 Albanian children under the age of five were killed. Serbian tanks served exclusively to kill the children of Albanian civilians." It's a finished quote. I could quote this for days. This all happened during NATO bombings when bombs fell in Serbian hospitals and killed our children. And Lalicka's lies happened while he was harassing the Koron virus with Serbia. That's why she got the prize, because of the lies she was making like this reporter. And to add, the journalist I was talking about was accused of several years in prison of a military court, and these, as the gentleman who spoke earlier, the first fighters, freed them from responsibility. Let's move on. Here he is, believe it or not, you saw him today, from a mouse hole, after three years of not coming to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was also the source of Sasa Radulovic, the bankruptcy king. Did you see him? He doesn't wear masks. With his statements he muddyed the World Health Organization, us friendly China, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister, the Government and President Vukic. She says I quote – this madness that was caused by, beware, the World Health Organization, China and the world's journalists produce a recession, finished quote. With this statement, he's trying to disrupt our iron friendly relations with the People's Republic of China and argue with us with the World Health Organization. But, well-respected Prime Ministers and respected citizens, you know why he claims it and why he does it? He's doing it on Bill Clinton's orders, because he still owes him $50,000 in taxes, so he wants to settle the bills at the expense of Serbian and Serbian citizens. That's Sasa Radulovic for you. Nothing better than his former party colleague Tatjana Macura, who has changed, I think, seven, eight parties. She gave an irresponsible B92 interview in 14.4.2020. She did not support the People's Republic of China at the most critical moment for our people at the time of Kovid 19. She said, quote: "I will not make China's assistance more important than the one that will come, which I underline, from the EU. China once gave us help," finished the quote. Is it true, Mrs. Macura, or not? I'm looking into your eyes, and you're looking at me. This lady, although she tried to name a leader, doesn't know or knows, and she pretends she doesn't know that the People's Republic of China in the UN Security Council when they introduced us with deadly sanctions China didn't vote for sanctions on Serbia. Also, China was saving us from Gilesar Smedereva. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and distinguished citizens? Revitalizing Bor and not talking about other activities. Believe it or not, here it is, the doctor reported for the third time, Dr Jovo Bakic, a sociologist in an attempt, a politician in an attempt and creator of a party van. He insulted the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He said in 14.4.2020, quote, to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia: "supervised, insensitive, manipulative, acting and very irritable" and added: "Ani and Vukic should also seek the help of the appropriate doctor," the quote concluded. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, this is the gentleman, the professor, for the third time, the professor, who said 19.8.2019 in 19.8.19, quote: "the opposition will win when we give power to the Sava and the Danube," the quote concluded. You know who was sitting next to him then? It seems to me, Dragan, is his name Dragan Lutovac, a stray? The people call him because he strayed into politics and did not respond, and another MP. Next, not to talk about Honorable Professor Bakiæ. I only recommend to him, the political analyst, the charlatan, the rude and the immature, the complicated, irresponsible lesionist, the freebarosh, the trabant and the secics, for the third time Professor Jovi Bakic, that when he gets up in the mirror, he will see a bewildered person full of hatred for Alexander Vukic and his family, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Ana Brnabic and let himself have three psychologists who will work on him daily to at least bring him to normal. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister, what is important to know, and what citizens know very well, and that is: firstly, we have introduced emergency measures, firstly we have introduced emergency conditions, police hours, first necessary measures to combat Kovid 19, we have introduced economic measures for the recovery of our economy. This gentleman and gentleman don't know it before me, but the citizens know it. We have preserved our country's health system and brought it to one normal, but that's why Serbia has two deaths from Kovid 19 to today on 100,000 people, which is better, I'm responding to a national MP who showed up three years later in the Assembly today, probably to receive a salary, was yesterday. The better it is than Switzerland by ten times, which has a thousand percent higher mortality, better than Belgium that has 30 times more mortality, than Spain that has 156 times more mortality than Serbia, than Italy that has eight times more mortality than the Republic of Serbia, and has 177 times more mortality actually than the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, the MPs, for these successes in the fight against Kovid 19 in the first half of time, are responsible: under number one, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to some surveys, 97% of citizens supported and implemented these measures, health workers, our heroes, the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by you, Mrs. Brnabic, the president of the Republic of Serbia who was the fighting engine for the fight against Kovid 19 and you, Mr. Dacic, as far as foreign affairs are concerned, in a very correct way. And finally, respected citizens, let's take this second half for the last minute. By doing so, we will preserve you, ourselves, and preserve what is holy to us, our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73865	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73866	Thank you, Chairman. You know, like other colleagues, that I rarely report, even when I'm the subject and the target of the attack, I don't report to the Rules of Procedure, because we know that it is often and often serves as some kind of abuse and replacement for replication, because the Rules of Procedure have no right to replication. I had to end this call at last to say that the way my colleague Atlagic spoke, not only now, but also many times before, Article 107, so that there would be no dilemma, is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure and almost every time could be reacted, regardless of which I do not doubt his good intentions and his attachment to Serbia and so on, but every time he uses, he is in violation of this article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which mentions, among other things, the use of offensive expressions, the presentation of facts and evaluations, etc. Thus, the dignity of the congregation is multiplely threatened by using offensive expressions so routinely that already the chairman of the debate does not react or notice these expressions, as do those who watch us. Giki Mafia, Janko landlord, king of bankruptcy, etc. So, they twist, mock names and nicknames are hoped to be unsuitable or absent, or present personalities, some of which are not members of the Assembly at all, some are not even in politics, such as a pensioner or academic, but a retired professor. Teodorovic. Not to mention that two-thirds of the exposure is based on criticism, and not on one not criticising, but on the jagged spit of one of the leaders of the opposition and, in fact, aside from what seems to be his service, perhaps, and perhaps disqualified or humanised, but it certainly violates the dignity of parliament and the important reason that has gathered us here, and not only now, but I would say, every time in replicas, that is, the presentations of a distinguished colleague, Mark Atlagic. It happens, the chairman looks at it somehow, goes over it and never, ever reacts, and every time we could, for these four years on practically any of his exposure could react in this way and treat it as a flagrant breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73867	My friend, I have to answer all of what you just said. People’s MPs attach their discussion to the impressions they bring from the environment in which they work and live. You just mentioned an academic who insists on politics, so Mark Atlagic calls Malta a fascist and an entire SNS. Because he's not officially involved in politics, you don't think someone should answer him? I think he should, because he'll either be an academic or a politician. He can do both, but then he can be equal to us here, not that he talks about what he wants, and we have to put up with it because we're politicians. The other thing, when it comes to these nicknames, here's the thing, I transferred one nickname from the citizens of Serbia who I heard and then the chairman, Natasa Micic, didn't give me a warning, and it was much stricter than we are now. For example, Serbian citizens called Bozidar Djelic "God's Derikoza" or "Miki Mouse", as the nickname was given to him by Natasa Jovanovic, a co-worker, no one received a warning. In this House, what I have always been disgusted with is the introduction of family members into politics, and only one colleague behind you has asked one question – is it true, asked the Minister of the Interior, is it true that the President of the Republic beats his wife? You expect colleagues Marko Atlagic and other MPs to view it kindly and in any way not to find any way that in all these insults answers, and about children and bringing children into politics I do not want to talk about. So, if you want to deal with politics first, you have to have a good stomach so that you have to put up with punches and honors and respect for other people's children to respect and love your own, and who isn't able to do politics, and some don't deserve to be, even, parents. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Jorge Vukadinović: Yes. I thank you. Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73868	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, first of all I must apologize to you all on behalf of all the MPs for having to listen to this exhibition for half an hour that is beneath every level of any decent and honorable man. As a Lician, according to my mother, I also have to apologize to all the Personals for having to listen to this too. This is an amazing group of statements that have been cast out, an incredible group of insults, and this is an example of how the Assembly works here, the chairman would have to prevent this and this kind of exposure. The World Health Organization at the beginning of this pandemic, hysteria, said there would be over 40 million deaths all over the planet, and then they slowly revised it. All the models that created the pandemic of hysteria and fear fell. In the end, it turned out that, for example, in Europe, half the dead died in nursing homes. Look out, half. A quarter of the dead in Serbia are in a nursing home. We don't even know how much he's in nursing homes, hospitals. Turns out this whole hysteria was actually raised to take your freedom away. All the governments of the world, and this one, most of all, took part in, living on you. They didn't save any lives, not one. They're making fools of us. The virus was funny to them first. It seems now that the virus was here both in December and January, that's what members of the crisis staff say. Then everything was fine, no state of emergency, traffic was working, everything was right, and since then, the virus seems to be not like a plague. Then, after the election, when they collected the signatures, they started talking about how the virus was like a plague, and now everything needs to turn upside down. Now we can go to the polls when traffic doesn't work, we don't have to do anything. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia are making fools of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73869	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to apologize to the families of 258,395 who died of an epidemic or a pandemic of the Coronavirus, which I also count on the citizens of Serbia who died. A discussion like this is really not worth this House and I really apologize to the families of all the deceased. Right on the line, MP Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73870	Thank you, Chairman. So, after this bunch of nonsense that our fellow MP, unfortunately, presented in a half hour's exposure. The only thing I have to tell my colleagues is that you need help, but you'll have to start working together.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73871	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73872	I call upon the honourable Members of the People, these two MPs who have now spoken before me, I ask you, Mr Radulovich... Is he here? No, he runs away whenever he has to. Otherwise, he only comes here for the wrong year. Is it true, Mr. Radulovic and you who represent him, stand up, and you, sir who have criticised these quotes that are correct, are all true, and you know it well. I assume you got the money to deny this. Stand up and say, "Mr. Atlagic, that's not true, they didn't say that." Get up! Is it true, Mr. Radulovic, that you said, I quote: "This madness caused by the World Health Organization and China and the white-world journalists produce recession" or not? Is it true, Mr. Radulovich? Face it, don't run. Is it true, Mrs. Macura, that you said that in the interview "B 92", even though you were urged by the leader to say, and you kept saying unilaterally, by not supporting the People's Republic of China at the most tragic moment for our citizens? Say, is it true or not? The citizens listened to you both. Don't honor us that we don't want a dialogue, and we want a gentlemen's dialogue, and dialogue is not defilement. The dialogue is based on the truthfulness of the facts and you gentlemen journalists, everything else is criticism, not criticism. If you're the right people's messengers, you two, stand up and suggest measures. You didn't want it during this epidemic, but you called for a boycott. You know what that means in a state of emergency? You want me to tell you who's experienced in the last century. You want me to tell you from the first Serbian uprising what oath they took when the country was in crisis. We all should have taken such an oath in a state of emergency. We must stand at the altar of the country, not call for a boycott. Well, citizens are shocked by 97% of your analysts say they support these measures. And you? Raise yourself above, make suggestions. I want a dialogue. I want to fight here with you. The struggle of opinion, not the physical struggle and destruction of the greatest sanctity, the flag, twice, from the man who fascism here advocates in this country. Fascism won't go away.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73873	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73874	Thank you. I really had no intention of answering the MP Radulovic, I'm sorry he's not here again, that's what the dialogue in his head looks like, he says something, then it turns out that no one can answer him. I didn't mean it because what he's saying is really painful, and I said it the last time and everything, politics isn't a beautiful job, not a job that suits everyone, it's hard in that sense, but there are some limits to good taste, I mean, human dignity that shouldn't be crossed. I said it last time, so I called in this time, just to say it. You know what, here, you can tell me really anything, I chose to do this job, you can insult me. I accept, say whatever you want, accuse the government, say we're like this, say whatever you want, but when you say we haven't saved any lives, then you insult our doctors, nurses, technicians, infectologists, epidemiologists, transfusiologists, anesthesiologists. You have offended in the worst possible way all the people in our health who have been fighting this virus for over two months now. Really, so everyone looks like mental problems aside. You must, and each of us, have basic human respect for our healthcare professionals. People did their best, they saved a lot of lives. I personally know one person whose life has been saved, thanks to everything our healthcare workers have done. Don't do that. Let's have a red line. Many have been overcome, many have been hit, but there is really no excuse -- no mental problems, no such problems, no such problems, no hate, no hatred for Ana Brnabic, nor for the Serbian government. Here, insult us, disrespect us, say whatever, but stop in front of our healthcare professionals. People were saving lives, saving lives at this very moment, and they're going to save them in the future. What you have in your head conspiracy theories, that you have movies in your head that don't exist in the normal world, that's really your problem. But don't speak for people who do their best not to save any lives. That is not true and many citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73875	My colleague Biljic, your colleague Atlagic did not mention you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73876	Thank you, Chairman. Respected citizens, by adopting a decision to stop the state of emergency and follow-up law, we from the United Democratic Serbia see that they cease to apply mostly defensive and epidemiological measures and continue to apply those economically. Namely, by suspending the validity of the Government Emergency Measures Regulation, it shall cease to apply the measures for the prohibition of movement, the social distinction measures laid down in that Regulation, for example, up to 10 people at funerals with at least two metres of distance, cease to be valid, for example, a provision which may allow the MUPs suspected of contagion to determine a stay at the address of residence or residence. They shall cease to be prohibited from holding choirs and all other gatherings of citizens in an open and closed area. It also ceases to be a ban on landing and take-off from airports for the transport of passengers in international air traffic and ceases to be a ban on international, road and rail transport of passengers. So these are all the regulations that cease to apply. It also ceases to apply to a regulation which obliges employers to reorganise work in accordance with epidemiological conditions. So all these strong defensive measures are lifted, and the virus is still there. True, the epidemic remains in force as a legal framework for action, under the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases and the Law on Public Health. But we miss it, or at least we haven't seen and heard today, a plan that we as citizens and as a society will adapt and get used to living with the virus, and what will be necessary, in the near and medium-term future? Some European governments have already made such plans, and in a very simple and understandable way they presented them to the citizens. The honesty with which they came to the citizens was enough to support and respect the inability of precise planning. And there was no need for these governments to thank themselves and no propaganda was necessary. We from the United Democratic Serbia are interested in a plan to return to life similar to that of before the epidemic. Of course, we understand that this life will not be exactly the same, but we expect a plan to return as much as possible to the way time moves along. Let's say, a plan to, for example, September. So, a series of steps to return to the lives of citizens, businesses, schools, kindergartens, homes for old, health institutions -- what is the plan for health institutions to restore the level of health services not related to the current epidemic? What criteria will be used to decide on these measures in the plan, will trade unions, employees, other social groups involved be involved in the process? We are interested in how often and how to update the economic package of crisis and post-crisis measures, the measures concerning travel, the opening of the state to an international environment and to respond to all other social challenges? How are we going to the movies? How are we going to the theater? Or maybe it doesn't matter to those who create crisis and post-crisis measures? You can't just say that when airports across Europe open, we're ready to wait for others. Because it's enough to look at the order of flight from Frankfurt airport -- today at 3:15 p.m., he left for Milan, at 15.40 p.m. for Rome, at 1:15 p.m. he left, for example, a flight to New York, for Lufthanz's flights. I am not implying that there are conditions for air traffic to return to a regular regime, but that citizens are confused when they hear that the borders have no chance of being almost opened, but then, at the same time, the Minister of Education announces the deadlines in question. What should students from Republika Srpska plan when they receive such information? Facultys were instructed to start teaching from May 15th, and these instructions were written so that the colleges realized that each of them had to decide whether to work on classrooms or work remotely, according to their abilities. When we discussed the budget, the finance minister boasted in the autumn that capital investments have a much greater multiplier effect on economic growth, which is what is most important for the future living standard of citizens. However, the economic package envisions cutting capital investments. And that's what we haven't heard about here today or last week, because the sessions are so well-conceived that we have nothing but prey and that we don't have any different economic solutions to discuss and cross arguments, let's see what's best. At the previous session, I was talking about how contradictory and confusing messages from the authorities were understood, so citizens are not sure whether the crisis is managed by political motives or by the management of the profession, and, consequently, citizens think that the measures are too harsh in view of the epidemiological situation, that they are rigorous, but at the same time that the epidemiological situation is worse than it is and that in both cases there are some political motives. That's why citizens are pounding into pots, because they doubt the justification of the measures they are subject to and the competence of those who manage the crisis, and they doubt because they hear what they're told, they hear these confusing messages, not because they love Jank, Mark, Peru, Ziku or Djoku. And you will not convince them of that belief. You can only further irritate them, and by the way you're breaking the law when you're jeopardizing their common property by climbing onto the roofs of buildings, because it's their property, and by the way you're breaking curfew, the ban on gathering, etc. So we don't see a phase plan with the dates of each phase and with information on how individual measures will look at each stage. I can grant the competent state authorities a concrete plan in PDF format on the 25-page side of an EU Member State, where all five stages of the date has been clarified, showing each of the measures at each stage. So what will look like the measures that citizens individually have to implement - wearing masks and gloves, home isolation, leaving the elderly population for walks, purchases, family gatherings and other gatherings in the open or closed area, visiting the elderly by small children. Some European governments, for example, plan to limit large family gatherings. weddings, as well as 14-day home isolation for returnees to the country even after August 10th. In some European countries, a return to a regular working regime will not start until June 1st, only where it is possible to maintain a distance of two metres between employees. We repeal the regulation on the special organisation of the work of employers in emergency and our employers are practically already inviting employees to their jobs in a fully regular working regime, and the virus is still there. So that's not the plan. We may not need these measures, but we don't see a plan. We're continuing the May 30th football championship. It's a really extremely unusual thing that deserves a special explanation. So, as much as the election campaign is on track and as much as we're in it, let's do business and inform citizens once and for all, not to expose them to propaganda, to serve them with misinformation about the EU's collapse. We've been listening to this for 30 years. It's been falling apart for 30 years. It's not gonna fall apart. It's not gonna fall apart. So, get rid of propaganda, because it's really people's health that's at stake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73877	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73878	It seems that this epidemic is eroding so are the political topics that come to terms. I really agree with the Prime Minister that it was painful to listen to certain MPs and it is truly amazing to what extent some are willing to go in the relativisation and victims of this virus and all the efforts of doctors to make the number of these victims as small as possible. Since we hear that we had no plan, that it wasn't talked about, I would just remind all the citizens and all the MPs that at the very beginning of the emergency, our doctors spoke very closely about exactly what they expected from the virus, although it was very difficult to predict something at that moment, because we saw that the whole world was being found. Our doctors then said that it could be expected that the epidemic would grow somewhere until the Orthodox Easter, and that, if we respect the measures, then we would start to die and that at some point, in early May, we would have under 5% of the number of people tested. If we look at the last result today, I think the percentage of the number tested is about 1.8%, which is the lowest percentage since the beginning. This best says that our doctors knew perfectly what they were facing, that they did make some as good estimates as they did, and that these measures still gave results. I think it's a little pretentious that we are now talking about how the EU has some plans, I don't know, for August of the month, and ten days before that disaster in Italy and Spain, no one had any idea what was going to happen. When we talk about our measures, it is particularly interesting to compare our country with some Western countries of similar size and to notice that these countries are 20, 30, and 40 times more deceased. I think it's best to see this difference in the measures that we've taken, when we've tried to reduce, to say, unnecessary contacts to a minimum and in some way physically separate the oldest population from the rest of the population. I think that's exactly the difference, because obviously among that population is the highest percentage of mortality, and that's why we have 200 deceased countries, and some countries like ours have 2,000, 3,000 or even 8,000, like Belgium, which has only a few million more inhabitants than Serbia. It's just amazing that there are people's MPs who can't tell the difference between the moment we introduced those measures, when the virus was the strongest, when the epidemic was the most severe, when it went up the path and made a difference compared to this moment when the epidemic was eroding. As I can't understand many other remarks of a guy -- why we can walk through the day, and at night we can't, is that the crown only attacks at night. I guess we still have to finish some life's work during the day without having to make contact at night and night. Or, if someone says we can go to the shops, and we can't go to the parks, so I guess we have to go to the shops to survive and hang out and barbecue in the parks, we don't really have to in these months, it can wait. After all, all these measures were not introduced by politicians, they were introduced by doctors, and this is the team of doctors that I consider to be the best we have in our country at the moment, and that it was time that these measures still produced some results. What was noticeable is that absolutely every doctor who said something positive about the state's reaction and the state's help in these most difficult moments was being satanized by opposition activists, politicians, the media, and it always comes down to it, if they say something positive, they will be satanized, if they say something bad, there are five terms ahead of both N1 and Nova S, there will be literally inventory, it's just important that they say something bad about their country. I think there were three key factors here that helped us get through this crisis as well as we can. First of all, I'm thinking about our health care, which I have to say was very, very underrated years ago. I guess we think it's popular that we're bad at talking about ourselves and our country, that grass is always greener in the neighborhood, and I think our health workers have shown, in these most difficult moments, that they are also able to cope with the crisis and that we can be proud of them. As a second factor, of course, I would also single out a country that reacted as quickly as it could and fulfilled everything the profession asked for and all that was necessary for the state to function normally in those times of specific circumstances when life was not common and when it had the power to apply some economic measures, to help the economy and citizens, and to keep the financial system stable in the country. As a third factor, I would single out the citizens, because I find it convincingly in the largest, at a very high percentage, were very responsible, highly disciplined and respected what the profession asked them to do, that we had a huge number of volunteers across the country who helped the oldest people when they couldn't get out and that with those three factors we were able to do together, at this point, to have those results that we wanted at the start of the emergency. What's important is that the state continues to strengthen our health care, and I can say that, from Monday, in Čačka and Gornji Milanovac, I know about it, and I suppose it's similar in other cities and municipalities, there are no more unemployed doctors at the Bureau, and I can say that today all nurses, who are employed at a certain time in the hospital in the town of Cačka, have been given a solution for a permanent working relationship. Also, as you know, at the very beginning of the crisis, health workers received a new 10% salary increase and I think yesterday was the payoff, if I'm not mistaken, of the second part of April's salary. What's interesting about nurses, that half of the salary was between, say, 30 and 32 grand depending on coefficients, places where they work, work hours, etc. Why does it matter what I say? It's important because in 2012, the whole nurse's salary was about 31, 32,000 dinars. When someone, like Dragan Gilas, tells you that after six months, when it comes to power, to restore dignity and respect for healthcare professionals by increasing their salary, just remember that today one half of the nurse's salary is equal to the full salary of the nurse from 2012, and that we have the lowest inflation in Europe, that our national currency did not lose value, that it is the same as eight years ago and that in euros we have twice the salary for nurses today, but eight years ago. None of this was easy to implement and nothing fell from the sky but needed serious work. Another topic that is very current, which is the subject of choice. As you know, we've delayed the election on the advice of the profession. You could hear from both our doctors and the world's doctors that they expected the virus to be the weakest in the summer months, but that there was a great danger of returning to the autumn epidemic. It is completely absurd and illogical to listen to a part of the opposition request that elections be right in the fall, when practically the whole world expects a new crisis that can be even bigger than this one. Then you realize that it's actually only one thing, and that's that they need a few more months to get ready, because four years wasn't enough, and then at any cost they want to postpone these elections, even though the profession around the world says that this fall can be much more problematic than summer. I don't know what to say about what happened today at the beginning of the session, and when my colleague from Chačka did what he did. I thought after a year and a half, as long as he didn't come to the National Assembly, and he was getting paid, and the National Assembly paid him an apartment in Belgrade... I thought it was more normal for him to come to his place, sign up for a word and tell the microphone everything he had, but he did decide to make a circus out of the Parliament and to initiate any conflict at all costs, because I guess the goal is to get him out of here, I guess his goal is to have someone arrest him to act as a political victim, as was the goal of what Dragan Gilas did. It must be said again, that absolutely no one has ever mentioned children to him, that I am even sure that no one in Serbia knows who his children are, nor what their names are, nor how many years they are at school, absolutely know anything about his children and the children of the other oppositions, which is fine and correct, but that is why Serbian citizens have been able to hear all sorts of awful things about the family of President Aleksandr Vukic and his mother, father, brother, children. I think I'd stay all night if I could just list what we could read by their activists, by their media, and that they absolutely never condemned it. What is quite clear is that one attempt to stage conflicts in Serbia, to arrest someone, to kill someone on the street, to send into the world a picture that Serbia is a politically unstable country, a tyranny where people fight on the street where opposition politicians are arrested and so on. So, these attempts have been going on for a year and a half and exactly what we saw this morning, directed by Boška Obradovica, is one such attempt. We have an example of these bangings into the pots, which is very interesting, at eight and five pounding into the pots, because they're unhappy with the measures we've introduced at the doctor's request, at the request of the profession, just to keep the health care, so that our health care doesn't break due to the large number of patients we could have. So, we took these advices to protect the health system. Doctors have repeatedly urged citizens to respect these measures, to stay at home and finally, you have people who supposedly tap at eight o'clock, and then tap into pots. Well, if you don't want to hear what the doctors have been asking you for a month and a half, don't touch it, it's hypocritical. Hit those pots, but at eight, don't do anything. And what is absolutely amazing, we could hear us living in tyranny, in camps, so says one politician, Dragan Gilas, says – Serbia is the largest dungeon in Europe, at the time we had a weekend curfew. The dungeon is to spend time in your home and in your home with your family. I really think, and I'm really sorry for those people who feel their home and their family as a dungeon and I don't think they have any help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73879	Thank you, colleague Parezanovic. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73880	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I address you today from this House, your home where we are only your representatives who today, here, have met to lift the state of emergency for which no one has ever asked us whether to introduce ourselves in Serbia at all, although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly states that emergency and war can only be declared by the National Assembly. Dear citizens, you who follow the policy on a superficial basis because you are working three jobs to feed your families and choose us here to protect your interests, do you not have time, you must know that on March 15th in the Republic of Serbia, after three senior party officials of SNS, the names of Ana Brnabić, Aleksandar Vukic and Maja Gojkovic decided at some party meeting to violate the Constitution, prohibiting the National Assembly from meeting, suspending it, prohibiting it from discussing and deciding and practically kidnapping all the competencies of your representatives, my fellow citizens who have chosen to protect your interests here. They did all this just and exclusively, my dear citizens because they knew that the National Assembly was allowed to discuss the introduction of an emergency and that she was allowed to discuss these medieval measures that we had been exposed to for the last two months. Dear citizens, they knew that there were at least three MPs in this assembly, the DJB MPs who would oppose it, who would make different arguments for a different attitude towards the fight against Coronavirus, soberly reading facts, thus calming down the fear that exists among citizens, which this government, after it abolished the National Assembly, was irrevocably harassing and making it worse for the citizens to calm down, only because it does not respect its citizens, which knows that the trust of citizens does not exist and is afraid to provide public health in any way other way other than repression and force. The people are, our people, my lords, these are reasonable beings. When they trust their authority, it's enough to prescribe a recommendation, no one in their right mind wants to infect the Coronavirus. You can't introduce a medieval quarantine measure for over 65 years that a month and a half people can't see the sun. It's worse even than the medieval measure. In the Middle Ages, sick people were imprisoned in quarantine, not healthy. This virus is known to be dangerous and not dangerous. My fellow citizens, out of 1,000 earned, 900 people don't have any symptoms, they don't even know they're infected, they get flu without need. A hundred people have some symptoms, 10 of them have severe symptoms and require hospitalization. Your job, my dear SNS authorities, was to protect those 10 from those 1,000, to gain collective immunity, as Sweden acquired it, over these 900 who have no symptoms, and Sweden now does not have to subscribe to any rapid vaccinations, because it already has collective immunity, and we give two million euros to the WHO, as a subscription to the vaccine, so shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73881	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73882	Thank you. At this point, compared to yesterday, Sweden has 2941 victims of Coronavirus. Is that what you're recommending? Is that your option for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That 3,000 people would be dead just so you wouldn't wear a mask? Well, maybe when you have a responsibility for this country. We did not want 3000 in the Republic of Serbia to die because you do not believe in Kovid – 19 and because you do not want to wear masks. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have now heard what the strategy is. We were supposed to be like Sweden. Sweden will have over 3,000 human casualties from Kovid – 19. There's no weekend worth going out to save 3,000 people's lives. Yeah, you were supposed to sit at home, you were supposed to save lives. If you are offering us a Swedish model, thank you for saying so openly, tell us that we should have over 3,000 human lives in Serbia, that more than 3,000 people in Serbia die. Thank you for telling us what your plan was, and I assume citizens, that to a large extent we would certainly support our plan where we don't have all these human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73883	Thank you. Col. Stamenkovic, the base of the call? (Branka Stamenkovic: Replica. Replica? You were not mentioned during the presentation. You got the answer to the questions you asked. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73884	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, the First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and after a month and a half, more than a month and a half, the conditions for abolishing the state of emergency were met, and today's debate is just an opportunity to say that Serbia has successfully adapted itself to the emerging situation in preventing Kovidom-19 infection. I think you'll agree with me that in time we swallowed a bitter pill and introduced the heavy measures that were meant to preserve people's lives and we succeeded, although this struggle is still going on, even though the challenges are daily. My message and my SNS colleague from this high house today is that we will not give up the fight for life, that the fight against Coronavirus continues to take place and that it is not a polygon, nor a means for political action and for the abuse that we could see today at the beginning of the session, directed by the National MP Boška Obradovic. Whoever did not understand or wanted to understand that there was a basis for disaster in Serbia because of the destructive action of the Koronavirus and that the state of emergency provided a legal framework to introduce the necessary measures and to temporarily limit the movement of people in order to preserve lives, in my opinion, has a problem with the reality facing the whole world today. After this month and a half, we can safely say that it was not responding in time and decisively, we would seriously question the lives of a vast number of Serbian citizens. Serbia has avoided a black scenario such as our much more developed countries and we have succeeded because we have preserved our health system and because we have not allowed people to die because of a lack of medical equipment. For this reason, for all things done so far in preventing the spread of Coronavirus was a very important attitude of medical profession, our brilliant doctors, and also political courage and leadership shown by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the entire state summit. It has not been easy to run for life in the past two months, it has not been easy to have full shops, to get medicines, to provide labs, to provide masks, gloves, respirators, and everything that it takes to make life work normally, it has not been easy to get tens of thousands of people from abroad who have been trapped at the borders, and it is therefore important that in my opinion in this debate today, but also in the coming days very transparently and clearly demonstrates what is being done, how much money is spent for these measures. I know how much time it takes a day, given the regular activities, but because disinformation appears it is very important that some things are repeated and that citizens of Serbia are heard to the government's official representatives as well. Part of the opposition, as we can see today, refused to participate in parliament. In previous days, they also urged Serbian citizens to break the measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia, risk their health and go to the streets. Unfortunately, they also destroyed the applause that was meant for our brilliant doctors and medical staff by banging in the pots, but they went one step further, in my opinion and the opinion of most of my colleagues, by misusing children for political purposes. Dear Serbian citizens, it has never happened in Serbia so far that anyone for political purposes, as Dragan Gilas did, uses children, uses a family that is sacred and is a basic cell of society. The Alliance for Serbia policy simply has no rational explanation. Their goal is to eventually come to power and simply their performances and everything they want to do, perhaps in the coming period, remind us almost daily. First, Dragan Djilas did so with his tears because of his children who were not mentioned, and today Bosko Obradovic, who for who knows which time, as a national MP, did not respect this home, nor did he respect Serbia's flag as a state symbol. I would ask Serbian citizens only to imagine in their heads only one day in Bosko Obradovic's power. Like Dragan Gilas, we know very well how many children and families cried over 400,000 people who lost their jobs when he was in power very well know Serbian citizens versus his 619m euros in income, and that we know that while he was in power. Also, I want to ask the citizens of Serbia to think about when Serbia, since economic measures are being taken to recover the economy from the Coronavirus virus already apply, means that they think about when Serbia in its newer political history could from its revenues for economic recovery, from anything, to single out 5.1 billion euros. Also, I'd like to send two more messages. The first is that we should lower the ball, simply lower the tensions, if possible, given that the electoral actions continue and that the elections are June 21st, but to consider that in these difficult times we need support, solidarity, need understanding, and June 21st will certainly be the date when Serbian citizens will declare what kind of Serbia we want to live in and what is best for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73885	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73886	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are at such an expected session where we are discussing the abolition of the state of emergency, and you yourself know how many people were interested in when the state of emergency will be lifted, whether certain measures will continue after the emergency has been lifted. I think it is of great importance that you and Mrs. Dacic are there and Mrs. Brnabic, who is not at the moment, but she answers questions all day long, because it is of great importance for the citizens to actually clarify what happened, but what kind of life with this virus unfortunately awaits us. At the last session, we talked about measures relating to the health of the people we confirmed, but we also had opportunities to talk about the measures that followed a little later, and they refer to our economy, to our economy, to those aid measures that would be applied to overcome the effects of this virus. There were MPs at that session who didn't want to wear masks or gloves, who opposed these protection measures, and I think that they were our health, the rest of us who were protecting ourselves from the virus, even threatened. Today the session began in a slightly different way. We could see one of the performances that Dragan Gilas came up with and sent another of his clowns back to make a circus out of the National Assembly. I am glad that it took a short while and that they failed, but I am also glad that they showed today that they respect the institutions, respecting the citizens of Serbia who voted for them to be MPs, to do their job, to be the voice of the people, to receive a salary for the job. I'm glad they showed how they would exercise power maybe sometimes, I hope not. I also wanted to say that we are witnessing heavy blows that Alexander Vukic suffers every day, but unfortunately his family, because it is not enough for them to attack only him, they must attack both his children and his family and even their children and parents to drag into a dirty campaign they call a political campaign. There's actually no politics here. It is known what is a political struggle, what is a struggle with arguments, the fight with facts and the fight between supporters of different political parties. What they're doing is just showing hate for impotence. These are failed attempts to weaken the president and the state in every way. But you can see for yourself that Alexander Vukic from every story he's involved in is getting stronger and stronger. A real politician, a statesman, who has already proven many times that the most important fight for him is the fight for the citizens and the fight for Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic said he will not and will not respond to the daily attacks, said he would not and did not mention the names of his political opponents as long as the state of emergency continues, as long as he is not sure that we are all winning together in the fight for the lives and health of our citizens. During that time, a target is being drawn at the head of his family's leaders, continuing with an insidious campaign led by the Alliance for Serbia's leaders. They tried everything: camping in the park, protesting, screaming in the streets, breaking into the RTS, entering the National Assembly, other institutions, calling for a link between the president of Serbia and the Prime Minister, harassing the president of the Assembly, obsessing the presidency, destroying the works on the square, breaking the curfew at the end. All the things you'd do the next day if you came to power. In their media, on the portals, social networks are daily crucified by Alexander Vukic and his family and anyone who stands in his defense. They didn't want to go to the election first, so they wanted to go to the election a little bit, so they didn't want to go to the election again, and now they don't know if they're going to the election. To them are the laws which were in accordance with them, for they brought them in, and then they did not answer them, for we all applied them. They don't know if there is or no democracy in our society. Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen, all of you who can't decide whether you're going to the election or not to go to elections, finally go to the elections to get beat by the SNS with your coalition, to finally let you know where you belong and stop harassing all of us every day with whether you're going to go to the elections, not to the elections, which politician is going to cry, which politician won't cry. All this isn't enough, but right now, of course, Wolfie's children must be involved in the whole story and on the wallpaper. Then they get angry when someone points to it. What does KRIK need to target Daniel Vukic, connect him to the criminals, and thus, very possibly, put him in danger? Why does the Brkic of "Tabloid" say that when they chase us one day, the next day, no one must escape, not little Vukan, not Danilo, not Milica? And why do portals like "directly.rs" carry all this? Because it's Gilas' media. Because there are people who have been paid to intimidate the political inexperiences of Dragan Gilas. All that's been happening to us for months has culminated in the last few days, and here is the duration of this state of emergency, and the consequence is exclusively the powerlessness of those who have no idea, who have nothing behind them what they've done, who have no argument, who have no program, who have no politics. On June 21st, the people will say no to such people, and they will say that the policy, programme and programme of Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73887	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73888	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, co-chairwoman and colleagues, allow me as one of the representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to say about the Government's proposal to abolish the state of emergency. At the beginning of today's presentation, the Prime Minister explained the reasons why it proposes to abolish the state of emergency and all the allegations it has made are absolutely standing. This and today's data confirm that the number of people infected by the COVID-19 virus is smaller today than ever before. What has caused my attention is this third condition, and these are the criteria of the World Health Organization. The Prime Minister mentioned these criteria in detail both in terms of how and how. I would like to highlight this detail because it is important, because we as the Republic of Serbia have been working with the World Health Organization since the beginning. We were part, so to speak, of this unique front against this pandemic. The director of the World Health Organisation's Office in Serbia said Serbia has successfully done its job. He said that, however, two or three weeks ago, but this data shows that Serbia has successfully done the fight against the virus, as the epidemic has been under control since the beginning. That's what's important to say. After all, I think these figures that the rest of us watch every day are saying enough that Serbia was successful here. I think the biggest thing, the biggest job our country has done, I mean both the president of the state and the president of the government and the whole government, and those ministers who were in the crisis headquarters and those who didn't, that they did one for the citizens an important job and they showed how they could fight the pandemic. Of course, doctors and even medical staff have put up with the greatest burden there, but it turns out that we have very high-quality health care, that we have competent people, that, if I may say so, flexible health care because we have all done it in a short time. Remember, the state of emergency was introduced 50 days ago, the first case was recorded on March 5th, so two months ago. Our health system has proved to be able to adapt quickly to the new situation. It should not be disturbed that the virus, although everyone is talking about it, is still absolutely unknown to a large extent, because there are always some doctors with certain theories, but I remember the rules of the World Health Organization that I read, that only what is scientifically founded, which has been verified, which has shown during research as can finally be considered to be the ultimate truth. I think in this whole fight that we've had against Corona in the past two months, the health system has shown one extraordinary efficiency. The citizens were, of course, responsible and I think that says something about the society of our state of the Republic of Serbia. But tomorrow we continue to fight the virus, but in a different way. We're going back to life, and I think those steps should be very careful. There are measures to be applied. The government has also put forward a proposal for those measures that are absolutely abolished and those that remain on the sidelines. There are areas of life in which, for example, the measure of social distance will make it impossible to work fully or fully. I also think of education, I mean culture, sport, science and other areas where there is such a condition, if I may say, that a number of people gather and that should be taken into account. I think our crisis staff has good manners to inform the public exactly about the state of health and the fight against Corona. Dear Prime Minister, I think that, in a certain way, we should keep an eye on the inside of headquarters, if I may say modestly about the scale of appearance, because every word of the staff members has an impact on us citizens, so that all information is correct. It's always been the right time, they were right, but it's important that this rest of the fight against Corona not make any mistakes. I think Serbia has shown one beautiful face in this battle against the crown. In addition to seeing and having friends who help us fight the crown, it was seen that Serbia has the capacity to help other countries as well. I'm glad we helped the Republic of Italy and, of course, the Republic of Serbia, but also offered to help others, because I think that's good. I'm glad that you, the respected presidents, offered twom euros as our contribution to finding the vaccine and becoming globally applicable as soon as possible at a donor conference on behalf of Serbia. I don't think there's a country in the region that's shown such a desire to help its citizens. Here, there is Mr. Dacic, as Deputy Prime Minister and as foreign minister, that there have been 37 flights and that our citizens from different destinations around the world have been returned to Serbia to be among their own, talking about a human and patriotic aspect of government's work, to help those who may be among their own. Of course, this relationship with the EU is very interesting. Of course, it is our firm commitment to be a member of the EU and there is no anger. I don't think there should be any anger on their part that we're apostrophe of aid to both the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, we said both the United States and Norway and others. It should not be forgotten, it should not be disturbed that the EU has adopted a regulation on the first days of the pandemic or has passed a regulation that makes it impossible to obtain medical assistance for non-EU countries. That's what I understand. It's their move, but objectively it's not something that came in favor of us and they have to understand us. We are a sovereign state that takes care of its interests, takes care of its citizens. It was important to us at that time that we received assistance from the People's Republic of China and from other countries that I mentioned, where the EU is absolutely there to say unquestionable, but we need to talk about it, there should be no vanity on either side. What's important is that tomorrow's life is back to normal, but it's a great thing that the crisis headquarters has done, the issue of the economy. All estimates, I'm talking like a person who's trying to talk about what's happening to us or what we're surrounded by to find out as much as possible, I've seen that in the economy the situation is going to be very difficult around the world. I see that there are 58 figures or 59 million Europeans left out of work. The IMF estimates are that this will be the biggest recession, even worse since the one in 1930. I think our country and the crisis headquarters that was involved in this has done the right things and to prevent the dismissal, to help, to treat those who are employed, and I think that's a great thing. Your Honor, there's an area of public life where I'd like to mention that you have that in mind what needs to be done here. It's about education. Why do I mention education? All participants in the education process from preschool to high on 15 March are not active in the follow-up, in a way that there is direct contact with communication and exchange of views with the other side, between students and teachers, between professors and students and more. When we look at the entire structure of the education system objectively, only small graduates will be in one strange situation. Everyone else will finish their job the way it's supposed to. I think the great thing was what the Ministry of Education did with classes and lessons that were transmitted to students via the Internet. I've talked to a lot of colleagues. I think teachers are going to bring that part of the job to an end. The government has changed the rules. She gave the opportunity to do everything that was done in the future in the right way. The students will have, as we are informed, at the end of May the April deadline, then in June of course, the June deadline. But small graduates are in a strange situation because part of the class is being followed over small screens, part of them have classes and background checks with teachers. They had a little graduation rehearsal. It doesn't exist or will not exist until the end of the school year, it's been two and a half months for them, and for the other students for three months, there won't be any direct contact and communication and the answer to the asked question, in the sense that any of them are not clear, how to explain to him what is not clear and how to introduce him into the new lesson. I know that little graduates would want small graduates gone, but I think the Ministry has a good plan to provide it in the best possible way, with respect for the measure of social distance, there's no possibility of anyone getting infected. I think it's a good thing that in the second half of June a small graduation will be carried out, that it's a good thing that it's going to be on the level, as I would say, at school the entire capacity of the school will be made available to the small graduates, that the teaching staff will be there, but there must be a way for teachers with the students to take this part of the class from March 15th to the end of the school year to translate numerically into grades, and that the Office of Quality Promotion, the institution that prepares the small graduation, to take into account the existing situation, if I may say, to adapt these questions that were from May 15th. I know the Ministry will organise in schools at the beginning of June free days so students and parents can talk to teachers about what they don't understand, or if there's a need to fix a grade, it's all nice, but objectively in two, three or five days, you can't say, the whole process that has existed for two and a half months and they need to find the right solution. Because everyone else will end up in a good way. Even if one of them hasn't mastered a lesson, of course, there's always another part, there's a summer period, there's September, there's gonna be time to master everything that's part of the outcome of knowledge for a certain level of education, but small graduates are in one special position and that's what needs to be taken into account. That's why I brought this up. We, by the way, are returning to another dimension of our lives, if I may say, since we are here in the National Assembly, we will deal with politics. It doesn't take much, unfortunately, what happened this morning shows how the current opposition behaves, because an opposition that has no idea, which doesn't have a program personally, I think is provoking violence and trying to create an event to profit from it. I can say this because on behalf of our party I was one of the people who has been involved in talks with the opposition since August of last year and that is one constant in their behaviour. You know, the first was whether there would be tables on improving electoral conditions, so there were several sessions at the Faculty of Political Sciences and after two, three sessions of a particular political party that today against the elections announced a boycott of the election. You know, when someone announces a boycott of the April election in August because we didn't know the crown was going to happen to us, and now it's going to be the end of June, then it's talking about their strategic definition. So they want to talk – they will not participate in the conversation, they will want the National Assembly – they will not come to the National Assembly, they will not participate in the elections. Then you realize that in fact it is one abuse of the political institutions of our Republic of Serbia and one promotion of its position in a completely wrong way. I think we must try to put their behavior in another plan, because I personally think they have abused one very humane and beautiful action such as supporting doctors for what they have done in these 50 days and what they are doing for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Banging into the pots is their right, but also the abuse of absolutely one human activity of our doctors. There are elections, as there are in all other democratic countries, so whoever wants to go out, but it has to change the dictionary. It is forbidden and inadmissible to call children anyone and the President of the Republic, but also to any person participating in the public political life of the Republic of Serbia. The dictionary must change because Serbia has changed and we must change all together, and even those who do not want to learn to be part of these changes. In any case, I think that the Republic of Serbia has done many positive things in the past 50 days since the introduction of the emergency situation, I think the figures show, and it is up to us, as the doctors of the Crisis Staff say, to take part of our personal responsibility and to help the Republic of Serbia get to that zero number as soon as possible and to be officially declared as a case no longer exists in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73889	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The People's Messenger Vojin Biljic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my presentation with the quote of Montesquis. In case the Prime Minister doesn't know, Montesca is a famous French philosopher, one of the bourgeois revolution's ideologists. Montescje defined tyranny as follows: “When the savages of Louisiana desire fruit, they cut down the tree to harvest fruit. ” It's tyranny. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have cut down all the foundations of democracy, you have cut down all the pillars of democracy in Serbia, you have trampled on constitutionality in Serbia, you have trampled on the Constitution, you have trampled on guarantees of basic human rights, you have trampled on the pride of citizens, you have endangered the freedom that our ancestors have died for centuries, which they have bloody paid to have for us today, to leave to our children. For forty-five days, this congregation does not ambush. For forty - five days, the executive authority shall make all decisions under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Forty-five days of executive power decides on the lives of our citizens, decides whether citizens will be able to use their human rights or not, decides whether they will apply the Constitution or not, for the sake of cheap political, electoral tactics. That happens to us for forty-five days. For these forty-five days, all the government, all the MPs, both the authorities and the opposition, all the media, the whole waist, are thunderingly silent. For forty-five days, we leave national sovereignty to the mercy and mercy of the executive government, to humiliate it however it wants, to do whatever it wants with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is a shame that both the MPs of the opposition and the MPs of the government, you 242, hid themselves in the mice of the holes and let your national sovereignty be kidnapped without almost any resistance. It's a shame, because these freedoms and these people's sovereignty were what our ancestors fought for for centuries. Why? Are we scared of the crown? You know what, if my great-grandfather had tried to scare off the spotted typhoid today there would be no Serbia, they'd be called Austro-Hungarian and Austro-Hungarian still exist. One single institution that came forward for all this time, one single one, was Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, who stood up and said loudly that the constitution had been broken, that Serbia was in a state impact phase, that human rights were at risk. Only the Serbian Bar Association. Both the D.A. and the Constitutional Court kept their mouths shut. The Constitutional Court, I suppose, is that today they would abolish my state of emergency, so that it might say later, I am not in charge of deciding the constitutionality of earlier decisions. It's a great shame for the Constitutional Court. It's something that's never happened in this country's history. Absolutely never. The famous American senator, George Norris, said in a speech in 1932 that history remembers, what kind of man it was, does he have the courage, did he have integrity, was he selfish? You know what, the question is how will this National Assembly get through in history? For some other bodies, first of all for the Constitutional Court, we know they've signed up in history, for the government I won't mention, it's already clear as a day, for the Attorney General we know, and he signed up in history. For the first time, we're playing with freedom, like we got it on a tray, and we didn't. For centuries, our ancestors have been killed for that freedom. That freedom, ladies and gentlemen, what you sit for in the National Assembly is national sovereignty. It's the greatest ideal of freedom. That's why our ancestors died, not for our salaries, not for our parking places, not for our petty privileges, for our freedom. We are responsible for Serbia's citizens to defend their freedom. We are the only country in Europe, the only state whose parliament has not occupied for forty-five days. You know what's even better? This has never happened in Serbia's history. Never has the authority of parliament, in Serbia's history, been taken by anyone. Parliament was sitting at Corfu, it was sitting in Nis, under bombs occupied by parliament, only we hid and let the executive authorities do whatever they wanted. And beyond that, at the last session, we gave the government jurisdiction to pass laws. Do you remember that? We've passed a law that gives the government the opportunity to change the law. This has never happened anywhere in the history of parliamentaryism. We have to protect what's ideal, we have to protect people's sovereignty, when we don't already have the Constitutional Court to protect them, when we already have judges of the Constitutional Court who, not to do their duty, but I don't know of some of them who are professors of law school how they're going to look into the eyes of students. Each trainee, each student of the first year of the Faculty of Law has more integrity than this composition of the Constitutional Court. They will enter history by those criteria...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73891	I thank my colleague. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go. Just a minute. Did you want a word? Excuse my colleague Djukanovic, you have the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic before you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73892	I just wanted to react to this discussion because if someone listened on the side, it would turn out to be a party or, I don't know, a movement or I don't know how to define, to whom the gentleman belongs, that he is a great defender of parliamentaryism, the role of parliament and political freedoms. As far as I know, most of your colleagues didn't even participate in this House's work. Well, how did you now remember the role of Parliament in the political struggle? And if you don't talk, you can answer as much as you want, I'm just telling you the next thing you know, there's no cleaner situation in which an emergency is introduced than this one. This is a medical emergency. Italy introduced a state of emergency on January 31st on the day that, the next day, since the first cases of the crown were. Secondly, I'm going to remind you of many unconstitutional moves in the past that you haven't mentioned since you're talking about this move as one of the most radical. First, the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, which was completely contrary to the Constitution of then-Yugoslavia and the Constitution of Serbia. The Serbian Constitution made it clear that the extradition of Serbian citizens was prohibited. It was done by the Serbian government at its session. Where was the Constitutional Court then? Secondly, when Zoran Djindjic was killed, a state of emergency was declared, you know how? In accordance with the Constitution then, but with a dilemma where I do not dispute the need for it, but in that situation we did not ask that question at all. Could the state of emergency have been introduced for the territory of all Serbia or just parts of the Republic? That's what the Constitution said. No one has asked that question since then. (Sasa Radulovic: What does this have to do with us? I'm talking about something now, and you said, sit down, please, Mr. Radulovich. Well, I was your Prime Minister, please respect me. Well, I suggested you to the government, don't disappoint me, please. As for that, you were talking about the next one, that this was the opposite of the Constitution. The constitution, I think it's in the last session here and you've been reading the text of the Constitution, so I'm not going in now, but there are two things here. Serbia's constitution and indeed the need for society to introduce a state of emergency, and the state of emergency has been introduced due to an emergency health situation of epidemiologicality so that the state can defend itself against the crown. The constitutional legal situation is also clear because, according to a member of the Constitution, it is defined that if the Assembly cannot meet, it is known that the state of emergency is being declared. Which you didn't estimate, because most of you thought she could meet. So, you have to accept, I want you to apply for the election, so let's see, be the majority in the next election and you'll be the judge. The National Assembly has made such a decision and do not make such assessments that are absolutely not standing. You can think, you have that right. I'm just saying it's absolutely incorrect, you found the wrong approach. This is the last situation he's objecting to for the introduction of a state of emergency. This is a situation where such a move was necessary. If he hadn't been there, they wouldn't have been able to implement all these other measures. I can't tell if I hadn't been there for a few years, I wouldn't believe my member of the government would be having sex with me there right now. Here, it's my fault. I launched it into politics. True, a little Wolfie helped me here, since he suggested it, but, anyway, refrain from it. I'm glad you're here. It's proof that you're still different from some others. You are present and, of course, you have the right to speak. I don't argue that you have the opposite opinion. I just want to challenge that interpretation that introducing a state of emergency was a violation of human rights, freedom, especially the Constitution. Was there a violation of human rights and freedom? Well, that's why a state of emergency is being introduced, because emergency means limiting certain human rights and freedoms, but based on the Constitution and the law. That's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73893	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73894	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. I'd just ask if you can make order. (Saša Radulovic: I am mentioned by name and last name. (President: Please, if Mr. Djukanovic can speak. ) (Branka Stamenkovic: You're just afraid of us and you should be scared! (Saša Radulovic: That doesn't make sense! The Prime Minister calls for dialogue, you do not give a replica! Chairman, if you could just give me back the time. (Sasa Radulovic: Shame on you all together, your prime minister, you Mr Dacicu!) Shame on you! )
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73895	Mr. Radulovich, you've just received a warning. The word is from a colleague, Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73896	Thank you, Chairman. (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you! I've been following this discussion and I've got to figure something out. Mrs. Brnabic, at the moment when the state of emergency was introduced, there was a terrible criticism of why the state of emergency was not being introduced. And then when it started, then the criticism started -- and why we introduce it, limit human rights, limit freedoms, etc. Now you have a different situation. Now that the state of emergency should be lifted, we have certain political options that are against the abolition of the state of emergency. They'd like the state of emergency to last indefinitely, so we wouldn't be the election. We have a paradox in the history of political scenes in Europe, in the world. We have an opposition that won't go to the election. I've really never seen it in my life. This is the first time in history that you have an opposition that doesn't want to go to elections. I suppose every opposition's goal is to look forward to going to the election, to win? Since this is the worst government, here, the pots are pounding everywhere, we're dictators, we're like this, we're like this, I guess their goal is to go to the election, to beat us? It'll probably be easy in some elections. Beat us and nobody. But this is the first time we have an opposition that won't vote and that desires a state of emergency in Serbia. Because, let's tell the citizens, and that's where we have to be completely honest -- in order for the elections to be at the end of the year, in the fall, we have to have a state of emergency until that period, because there is no other legal basis for why elections to be postponed unless you have an emergency situation. Let me remind you, elections are not being debated again. The election has already been called. And their procedures have been terminated for reasons of emergency. I'm really getting the impression here that someone's wishing for an epidemic, that someone would want us to have five-six thousand dead here and say, "Here, Wolfie, we told you, so move the election for the end of the year." It turns out there in Italy, in Spain, in those other countries, that it looks like the heads of state are jerks, because they introduced such a curfew that you couldn't go out on the street anywhere. And as dangerous as the virus is, I'll tell you. Yesterday I listened to the data, in Italy this year it was 40% higher mortality compared to the previous year. And here someone wants to play with the citizens? We have to say, people, that we've scheduled the Assembly, it's not a problem for us MPs, of course there are colleagues over 65, but they're the problem of this housekeeper, dactylographs, people who work in a restaurant. These people are the problem, they could get infected. You want to carry them on your soul, maybe, if something happens to them? How can you not be ashamed to talk such nonsense? I guess here's a priority goal and a fundamental human right to protect life, huh? And thank God this country has protected people. I congratulate you on that. I have to say, no one was comfortable with this. How can you be comfortable sitting at home? In the sense that you don't go out for days and you have curfew. Of course it's nice to sit at home, who doesn't want to sit at home, he obviously has a street for the house. But, you know, being locked up and having these restrictions, who's that nice? It's just a crazy person. It's nice. This is where we fought for our lives, and that's what's most important. I'm very happy how this country came to an end. You know, today is St. George's, and I congratulate everyone on the glory of the cross. And I'm celebrating that christening glory. He killed an angel. We are not yet the end of this angel called the Coronavirus, but thank God we hope to succeed. Now, I have to say something, since there's obviously a political situation going on. I've been going through a lot of things these days. Of course, I don't think I'm going to cry and cry, like, in front of the cameras, call the cameraman, tell him he can, so shoot me. I don't think I'm doing it, even though it's creepy when they come to you over these social networks, where you have a bunch of idiots, I'm deliberately saying, that behind fake profiles, because they've never had the courage to show their names, so they curse your children, so they're threatening to kill your family, that you're going to end up in Zabela, that they're going to hang you, that they're going to rape your wife, and I've been taking it all these days. It's their dictionary. Of course they do it on purpose and purpose, because it's serious campaigns. I saw yesterday when the president's son, Danilo Vukic, was attacked. Within half an hour, it was one terrible canonada by these social networks, the spread of that text, where you see that everything was ready in advance, as in Gilas, the situation of the pre-prepared scenario, where the cameraman is coming in, says he can, then he cries out, a little calls Olja Bećkovic, etc. Then it goes on social networks, within half an hour to thousands of profiles it expands. You can see that someone has organized everything here, because they are powerless and they no longer know what to do with anger, because the people will not. And then they have to play the victim. But what they sent me, I must tell you, it only strengthened me. I see you're writing various criminal charges. Well, I've got every criminal record of them and everything they write to me, so it's an order for me. Well, I'm proud of it, because I'm fighting them, because I'm fighting for those villains never to go back to Serbia again, because they peeled us off, because they destroyed us, because they ruined this country. I'm asking our members, I'm the one, because they say it's a criminal report whether, I don't know, organized these torches or encouraged, but I've been encouraging and encouraging still! And I invite people to stand up to them. And as for the organization, unfortunately, I'm not, but I'm willing to accept absolutely everything you're telling me and if I have to go to jail for my ideas. I have no problem at all because I will always stand up to them, because we have something to fight for. This country led by Alexander Vukic built hundreds of miles of roads. This country would have 6% economic growth in plus if there were no coronary viruses. Unlike those who had 26% unemployment, today we have reduced ourselves to a European level, or even below the European unemployment level. We've got factories coming in, we've confessed everywhere in the world. You can get a job somewhere, you can work, you can get paid. In their time, they destroyed the entire private sector. People from the private sector ran to work at state firms. Today, thank God, the reverse process is because people have some business initiative, they flee from the state sector, they go to the private sector, and that is a sign that the economy is recovering. We had a reason to fight for. I beg our members to fight. They can't kneel at all. I know these are terrible pressures, it's horrible to endure, it's hard to endure, but we have to be strong because we have reason to defend our country. We literally defend our country so that these tycoons and thieves never return. Please be nice, so you're going to his apartment over there to Wrachar, to defend him, and you're not asking him where he got that apartment. Do you know how much a square is worth on the Wizard, right where he has that apartment? And by the way, a friend of mine said very nicely -- we don't have anywhere to play a loudspeaker, either, because wherever we let go, it's gonna be his apartment somewhere. Why don't you ask what it's like all the time he's mayoral, and while he's a minister, why don't we ask how he's made so many billions? Why doesn't anyone ask that? They address the poor from Vrakar where the 3,000-euro square is. You know, since they lied that I turned on that torch on the roof of the building, no, gentlemen, I turned it off from my terrace, I'm calling you as a real host, you can come whenever you want to have coffee. I've lived in Banjaca, 22nd floor, a working solitary, since I was born there, in that same apartment of my parents. In six years, as far as I'm concerned, I haven't made it as Gilas to make billions, but I live in the same apartment, and I don't drive a jeep, and I don't drive a car as angry as they do. I drive a tuaran, Folsvagen, 2014 year. I don't have that problem getting out in front of everyone to tell him something. I want to fight them, and I'm ready to go everywhere they want, wherever they call it, because they say they're very brave, strong. Wherever you organize any of your sessions, I'll come to you, because I'm not afraid of you, because I have arguments unlike you. Of course I'll always turn on the torch on my terrace, because that torch has caused them so much trouble, since it was a symbol of a struggle so that such villains never return. I repeat again, criminal charges, whatever you accuse me of, I accept it all, I absolutely accept it myself, and I'd be singing in prison if I were convicted because I fought against them. In the end, they say they'll take us down. I invite them to do it in the election, and as for the potential shift on the street, they can dream it, and we'll never let them. She has a folk, full of hunger, she does not believe. One who manages to buy such housing and real estate there, he does not trust the hungry one, even here on Belgrade's periphery. Now you're half of them to ask where Ripanj is, where Zuce is, they have no idea, they didn't go to get their shoes in the campaign, and they want to win the election. We, for one, visit each section, and then they say their hordes go. It's not true our activists are going. Yeah, we're gonna go see every activist because we want to win. Of course we want to win. To be honest, there's a lot of bad stuff about us. I might look forward to it if there was an option with some serious leader, with a serious program to replace us and beat us, but these never, ever. I need to say something about our party, thank you to all the members, first of all, who stood by me. Thank you and thank you forever and many officials who have stopped and who have defended me. Today, Maria Obradovic is here, as I say, thank her colleague, Aleksandr Markovic, who made a statement, etc. I know a lot of them and over social networks we've been texting. Thanks for that. Dear colleagues who have gone into the mouse holes, and you are in our party, shame on you. There is a replica from “The Marathons”: “I am sorry that you are mine, and not the children of some of my enemies, for whoever knew you and was glad to him. Honestly, what kind of people do we have somewhere in the leadership, some people who are so far away, I wouldn't want them to the HDZ. That's what I'm telling you honestly. I hope that these elections and this change, which is beyond what is needed in our apartment, will bring and that we have one option that will really fight for Serbian national interests and that will fight for this country as Alexander Vukic fights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73897	The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73898	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, Prime Minister, First Vice-President Dacic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, we are here today talking about all those things that have happened to us backwards, they say, 50 days since the state of emergency. I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of Serbia and all those who fought all together against this non-majority, against the coronary virus that took more than 200 lives in Serbia. I think our work, the work of our government and all of us on the ground has shown that that's how it was meant to be. I'm from Srlig. We had an i.e. there. We had 28 people who were infected. Right now, they're all home, they're all good, and now they all have negative results, which means they gave us results, that we all knew how to do it. In the mind of the end, we first started to build, we shared free protection masks for our citizens, for our people living in the country and from the village. Now, like before, it turns out that when the hardest thing is to have our village, there's our agriculture. Now, when I went around our villages in the end, there were no people in some houses, 20 years ago, when there was a war, when there was a bombing, and now the ones, who may have come from Vrachar or other parts of Belgrade, or some major cities, to their hometown, to their house where they hadn't been for 20 years, are smoking chimneys. It is a sign that when the hardest is there is our village, our agriculture. Dear Prime Minister, I'd like to say one big thank you to everyone who's been here to defend our country, our people in the country and from the village of this virus that's really scary. I'd like to thank our doctors, our sisters, our people who work in health care, the post office, the police, the army, the administrations. I'd thank all the volunteers, but first I told doctors and nurses, people who work in health care. Dear Prime Minister, it would be good if you as Prime Minister in the coming period... (President: Thank you. Time. I'll just finish if it's not a problem. ... find the possibility to provide our doctors, our sisters who don't have their own apartments with the same possibility of providing them with an apartment... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73899	Thank you. I really can't go on much longer. I don't mean to be mean, but if I let everyone talk for another minute... The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73900	Thank you, President. President-in-Office of the Government, the Honorable First Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, above all, Serbian citizens, I really meant to talk about the agenda. However, I will shorten my discussion. Today, on the agenda, the decision to abolish the state of emergency. The eyes of the public are absolutely against the Serbian Parliament, because our citizens look forward to returning to life as normal as possible. In the last session, I was talking about the dangers of the Kovid-19 virus not stopping, how much I understood the profession, but that the conditions had been obtained to relax and eliminate both the state of emergency and one part of the measures that had been taken. In Serbia, someone deals with politics, and some politics, there was talk and there was a being. In order not to do that, I will only make an appeal – everything here is heard, everything here has been said, we remain to carry out the task for which the citizens elected us four years ago, and that is that when we have an important decision on the agenda, we make it for the benefit of the citizens. Whether we were right, as the ruling majority, or not, the citizens of Serbia will respond to the upcoming elections in which, note, everyone has the right to participate. That's all I'm gonna say, with one more note. I'm sorry for the fact that the big truth is just one thing. We're parents kids couldn't choose, and it's a handicap for all our children. The rest is politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73901	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jadranka Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73902	Thank you, President. I know our citizens are looking forward to the end of the state of emergency, but it wouldn't have happened, relatively quickly, if our government and President Vukic hadn't reacted so quickly, so responsibly, uninterruptedly only by correcting themselves. That's what I noticed and what I particularly liked, therefore, comparing the experiences of those who met with this pandemic before us, I would say bravely, courageously, that they might be criticized, but the results have shown success, and I, in fact, want to give you my personal congratulations and admiration not only to the Government, to all ministers, to President Vukic, but also to not count here many times something has been said, and if it's not too bad to express gratitude, eternal gratitude and admiration to all those, to all people who have worked 24 hours uninterruptedly during this period that our country is working like this, and it worked very well. I'm trying to get out as well as my colleague Snow White, the more things I wanted to talk about, but here's just a little bit about human rights and freedom, movement, I think, and just to mention, because today we didn't say that in the previous session very well explained by Mr. Alexander Martinović and Mr. Vojislav Seselj and I agree absolutely with that, that priority and what we give priority to life, human life, and that's what our government has shown, and it has to be repeated a million times, because it's something that has set our country apart, so we care about everyday for every life. Now again, to skip all sorts of things, but I think two things, trying to leave space, there are a lot of those who have stayed in our last session, and I was among them, without being able to turn around, but two things I want to talk about. About one I have to leave in the end, and this is something I want to say a few words about, and it refers to "Er Serbia". It may be that I am here and as personal as someone who, above all, has traveled the whole world for a profession, but I am very proud to have our "Er Serbia". I think it is my duty to draw attention to many who have been in recent years, not to say agitated, but to put "Er Serbia" often in some negative context, attacking it, looking for reasons why it should not exist, criticising the government, while expressing my admiration for the visionation of our President Vukic for his relationship, precisely towards "Er Serbia" with our airline. So, I'm proud of "Er Serbia" and I won't hold you back now, I haven't even been an MP since then, I was fourth on the list when it was the first promotional flight to New York, proud, I bought a ticket to that promotional flight, because among other things, I came as an artist to one of the last flights, right from America, and I wanted to enjoy our "Er Serbia" coming back to America on a direct flight. So I draw attention to the fact that it's not good for the public to get into the story in some way -- there's our money, there's the floscule, the type used to help a company that's practically exhaling, and now you can imagine everything we've read for yourself, so I'd say, "Er Serbia" in a negative context. Now she's shown and flashed how important it is to us, how necessary it is and where we're lucky to be able to buy a broad hull plane now. They say those who understand themselves in the economy and invest that usually big investments are invested when they are the biggest crises. Okay, maybe this is naive of me, but I'd be happy to. All praises to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassies, consulates, I've been in touch with a lot of people from our embassies. Massively, the parents of our students and students and other citizens thank fantastic coordination and I repeat again for the public, the free flights that this small Serbia of ours has, and so great, endured and done, and must not be forgotten. So, every honor of Er Serbia, to the pilots and to return now to what is very important to me and what is my duty, where I feel very responsible, and that is the position of the free artists. Not only do I feel responsible, but as someone who is very disciplined, otherwise, there is no success without discipline, responsibility, so if you want guilt always, only within yourself first. I feel, you can trust me or not, and blame me that at this point, at least me and the public, we don't know what the plan is about solving the problem of free artists. Just for a little while, let me say that free artists, for the sake of the public, during this state of emergency were not able to earn their money in any way, to do, and what might be even more dramatic, which is unknown in the future, when it will happen, when they will be able to do so. I have been taking steps since the first moment, all that is in my capacity and I thank you, Prime Minister Brnabić, endlessly for showing great understanding, but I also apologize for intercepting you in the hallway, aware that I will not have the opportunity to address you, I have seen the course of our session, but I am truly grateful to you for knowing and seeing and recognising in you the absolute willingness and understanding that this problem is being solved. Not only now, you reacted immediately and when we solved the problem of ballet artists and absolutely showed great understanding when it comes to culture, the National Theatre in Belgrade. I am also happy that our president, in his interview perhaps seven days ago, announced on RTS and showed willingness and interest to resolve the status of free artists as soon as possible. That's not their request. It's the only fair, only possible and I'm aware that our country's budget is being hit from all sides and I don't know, I'm afraid honestly how our country will endure and endure it. There are so many fields and segments that require help, but this is the only one. And if I wasn't an MP, I'd feel called. By the way, if there's no confusion, I'm not a free artist, I'm employed at the National Theatre, and we've all got our salaries for the public. They are not diminished and this is an opportunity for me to also draw attention to the extremely grateful position that artists in our country have, unlike many artists in other countries. I keep in touch with my colleagues in Italy, including Sweden, someone mentioned her. It's just a little depression, it's my duty, there's a lot of Swedes who don't share their opinion and aren't happy with the decisions that their government made, but let's leave it to them. I just found out from contact with my colleagues. So, to go back to the artists, everyone should at least think, at least think that some other systems and other countries, when artists do not recognize and have a permanent working relationship and that many of them who are unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory and are constantly looking for a reason to eat and dissatisfaction, let them just think about how we and in this state have now received salaries that are not reduced. Unlike the free artists, the city reacted very quickly, and 309 artists, according to my information, had already started paying off, but I am asking the presidents just to explain to us the public and others who have not received anything yet, unlike the hairdressers who have already begun to work, free artists do not have that option. I'm just asking you to show us in two sentences what the plan is for a large number of our valuable free artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73903	Thank you, MPs. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73904	Thank you. Thank you, dear Adriatic, and thank you for thinking about this and for fighting so hard for independent artists and for our culture and art at all and for intercepting me, as you say, in the hallway, for talking about it. So, I really want to say once again to everyone that at no point did we forget about independent artists, there were just certain economic priorities, and what was hard for us was, it was hard to single out a particular sector or segment of the economy to find the right way, and to be transparent and to help all the same. So what we started with the first wave of measures was a wave of measures indeed towards the entire economy, but we were really dealing with independent artists specifically to find a good way. After all, as you said, President Vukic also said that, we have neither forgotten nor forgotten, we will find a way to get out to people, to support them, because in the end I really think we will agree, that I do not know that Serbia has seen before the Government that has invested so much in culture and cultural infrastructure, and that we are a single government that has even taken credit from an international financial institution in this case of CEB, the Development Bank of the Council of Europe just to invest in cultural infrastructure. Now, now great news for you, and I'm glad to say it today for all the independent artists, what the City of Belgrade has done, every honor, was not for independent artists, it was for some artists on the contract, but we've done this job, tomorrow the government's session is going to conclude, so here, before me is the conclusion of creating assumptions for the smooth performance of independent artists at the local level, as well as for supporting this activity of the Kovid-19 pandemic, the grant of grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget to a net amount of 30,000 dinars per month for a period of three months. So, like everyone else in the economy, therefore, the grant of 30,000 dinars per month, for three months, although this all lasted two months, so for 30,000 per month, three months for persons who have the status of persons who independently perform artistic or other activities in the field of culture, established by a representative culture association in accordance with the Culture Act. This, some would say the cost, I think an investment from the Republic of Serbia's budget totaling 211 million 770 thousand dinars. These funds will be transferred to the accounts of local self-government which, then, we have exactly the numbered, all local self-governments in conclusion with precise amounts by representative associations, or independent artists, and then we will work together with local self-government to make it immediately further and worth it. In addition, as part of the programme – Serbia is creating, we will have more prepared. We just wanted to finish this first, and then have an extra competition that independent artists will be able to report to. So we support it that way, but here we go tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73905	Thank you. The word is Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73906	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as well as the entire world affected by the vicious Covid-19 virus, which has completely changed the face of our planet. In this kind of humanitarian crisis of global proportions, Serbia has shown that it is a stable and organised state that cares for its citizens and their interests, but is ready to help others. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown a high degree of responsibility and the possibility of adapting to emerging circumstances. Unlike many developed countries, Serbia has managed to cope with this severe infection, of which origin and treatment is still insufficiently known. The measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the introduction of the state of emergency have already yielded results, suggesting a daily reduction in the number of patients and deaths. All measures were taken on a proposal for a profession that was part of the Crisis Headquarters, which with the government made a good and complete team. This is confirmed by the fact that it is precisely these measures that we have optimally preserved both citizens' health and our health system, which has shown exceptional flexibility, responsibility and commitment. As a doctor, I want to thank all my colleagues and other healthcare professionals, but also to all the other health staff who have managed to suppress this pandemic over human efforts. That's why we can't forget this social sector when this is over. It needs to be strengthened and raised to a higher level and much more appreciated by people who care about our health and citizens to restore trust in doctors and Serbia's health. It is also necessary to provide stimulating conditions for the employment of young healthcare professionals, doctors, medical technicians who have taken a huge burden this time. The health system was unfortunately destroyed after 2000, but in recent years it has strengthened and truly endured this great health challenge that the world does not remember. This only confirms that public health has been created on the socialist fluids in which every citizen has the right to be treated, passed a maturity test unlike many stronger capitalist health systems. The Socialist Party of Serbia that I belong to is behind such a system. We're proud of that liquid that no one can dispute today. The government designed a package of health and economic measures that were implemented during the emergency. The greatest effect certainly gave the measures of isolation and distance. Our citizens took seriously the whole situation and the gravity of the possible consequences of the health of the population. Special and enhanced measures included our oldest citizens. The measures were difficult, but necessary to protect the health and life of our citizens. I would especially like to point out that Serbia has also cared about its citizens who have found themselves abroad, or around the world since the beginning of the pandemic. All praises to the foreign affairs ministry headed by Minister Ivica Dacic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which organised a return to Serbia by humanitarian flights and other traffic corridors of more than 15,000 of our citizens from all over the world. It wasn't easy, because many airports were closed. Also, special flights from Serbia have brought foreign nationals back to their home countries, including numerous diplomats, followed by the gratitude of many states and statesmen to our foreign minister, Ivica Dacic. I feel the need to thank, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, everyone who worked daily during the state of emergency. These are, in addition to health workers, police officers, soldiers, miners, merchants, pharmacists, our farmers, drivers, and everyone else I may not have mentioned, in order to allow normal life in these extraordinary conditions. Elimination of the state of emergency is the result of the created epidemiological conditions for it. By eliminating the state of emergency, it does not mean that all measures are lifted, they remain in force of social distance measures, gatherings of larger gatherings, and measures of enhanced hygiene. I believe that everything that has happened to us will affect our habit of taking more care of our health, raising immunity, caring and hygiene, and protecting our planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73907	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73908	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we are discussing and are likely to make a decision to abolish the state of emergency, we must remind ourselves that by failing the majority we have been prevented from talking about introducing a state of emergency, because it was also the rest of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Someone here said this morning that you estimated that the Assembly couldn't meet and that's why the Assembly didn't make that decision. What you've assessed is your business, but the fact that one of the fellow MPs said it just shows, in fact, the arrogant behavior of the government, which is not good at all. Let's get back to the very beginning, the very appearance, at least the official Coronavirus in Serbia. The start and end of the emergency seems to have cast a serious shadow on the extraordinary work of doctors, the entire medical and non-medical staff who really need every serious person in Serbia to give recognition. You, Mrs. Brnabic, said you were all working day and night. I'm not saying that some government members haven't worked either, and you certainly have, but leave you now when it comes to the results in the fight against COVID, yet they belong exclusively to the profession. Certainly the support of the government was needed and without it a lot of things the doctors themselves say they couldn't do, but let none of us put ourselves ahead of them in this situation. They just don't deserve it. Today different opinions have been heard here, and normally, in the National Assembly and different opinions should be heard, but indeed, what is the result of the struggle of our doctors and the complete health system in Serbia is the fact that we, perhaps now in relation to 202 dead, sound ugly - went well, because if one man died we did not go well, but we are talking in the circumstances of what they are all over the world and that is something that should be really public and said. Not all ministers, Mrs. Brnabic, have done enough for you, nor good. Zorana Mihajlovic has even succeeded in an emergency situation, which is another one of her, third in a row, to find herself in the face of justice for some crime, and she has dealt with some other affairs. Let's remind ourselves once again how it started with Koron in Serbia. We remember all that conference when Dr. Nestorovic said that Corona was the funniest virus, that he was telling women to take some of the men's money and go shopping in Milan. You know what we think? Since he was DOS-mania and the official of that time, it is very possible that he had actually led Alexander Vukic to say so on purpose that he would laugh at the same conference and say that for Corone, for us as Serbs, he would have had enough to drink two brandy. That was very bad and very ugly. Then, too, Minister Zlatibor Loncar said, "If necessary, we are ready even to make a vaccine." Here, you should, so let him turn on that ring, because that's what it sounded like - just to turn on the ring and now it's going to be a vaccine. When it comes to the end, of course, there will be a little time to say something that was, in the meantime, when it comes to the end of this state of emergency, you, too, have shown great indifference and somehow, I repeat, cast a shadow of what was good in this period when we all led together with our medical staff to fight Corona. We were all, at least when I was talking about us from the SRS, we were all disciplined, we respected what the waist imposed. We've never heard of it. You don't usually commend someone from a serious opposition like the SRS. We participated in the "Stay At Home" campaign, so. when you have to go out, then "Buy your own home." We were a little bit of an opportunity to show up in the media, but our president had been, every time he appeared on a video network, he didn't think to go to the studio because he was in a group that didn't have the right to go out. So, all in the interests of the people and all that we have done to set a good example for the citizens of Serbia as MPs. That, among other things, is our role, especially in the state we've been in this period, and we're still, uh, much lighter, but we're still. Then it happened, everyone here was talking about this applause that we used to tell doctors every night at eight o'clock. Then very soon someone on Twitter invited you to tap into the pots against the regime of Alexander Vukic, and it started with such a slight slamming, you may have had hundreds of sherpas in Serbia, but then, of course, some other people who may not even have arranged for the sherpas, may not be for you or for us, may not be able to go to the elections, may simply be dissatisfied. The fact is that there are many reasons for people in Serbia to be dissatisfied. Then you in power, we think, made a big mistake when you confronted those sherpas with torches. Why isn't that good? If these were normal circumstances, let them pound into pots, you walk with torches, but both of them have in some way violated the measures we had from the professional crisis headquarters. That's why it wasn't good. Then we were able to see here, not only here, but in the media, but here at conferences, pathetics, hypocrites. Don't do that. Don't spoil what was our common struggle, all of Serbia's honourable citizens was this fight that we each participated in in our own way during this previous period. What did you allow? First, let me just say about those torches. Today, one of the MPs in power said, yes, then we went out with torches to show them, and two days ago, Alexander Vukic said that the advances had nothing to do with torches. You have to consult sometime, it's not very convenient for the people to listen. But, well, that's also your thing. But what else did you allow that wasn't good? We had it here, that was the day the Assembly was sitting here, a group of hohstapplers, hooligans, some of them also have MPs' IDs, who sat in front of the National Assembly, something like Thomas Nikolic on the Styropol, so they showed there that they are the force, that no one can do anything to them, so they can at the time of the police, or ban the going out on the street, they're squirming there, they're standing there. Then, as an accident, a group of pensioners appeared who had flags and all lived 600 meters in the assembly circle went for a walk. It's not possible and don't make fools of the people. So, we believe that the pensioners of the patriots and that they would gladly walk and wave the flag at each place, but after a month and a half out of the house, they remembered to carry the flag, wave and just walk in front of the Assembly and say to Bosca, Gilas and others that they were against them, etc., it's nothing spontaneous and that's why it's not good, and that's why it's not nice, first of all. This is where Mr Dacic mentioned today that we went, that you as a government went to get our people abroad, of course, it was 400,000 of our citizens. First you didn't want to hear of them, and then you had mercy again, so you went to get them, and it was good that you did, and it was an obligation to leave. Now it's a big problem. These people left Serbia in time because they couldn't get a job here. Now don't rub our eyes with some percentages, but those 400,000 people are on the unemployment list now, so you'll have to make sure that they get a job, too. But what was interesting to me. Mr Dacic says - we did not charge for this to our people, and the EU did. What is it, the EU, where they brought people back? To Mars. The European Union is gone. They showed you exactly on this case. As soon as the crown appeared, the first thing they did, they closed down the borders, which, by the way, you're telling us, we're gone. Please just answer one question. It depends whether we vote in favour of this law on the validity of the regulations. You have provided for 15 regulations that will apply until the relevant laws are passed. You were under obligation, and perhaps you can tell us now, what is the deadline within which you will propose these laws to the National Assembly? Is it never or has it ever been? Do you know when it will be because it depends on whether we vote for this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73909	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go. Excuse me, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic called. I'm sorry, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73910	First of all, I want to thank you too because, rightly, in that sense you have always called for respect for all measures, for one discipline, for self-discipline, and all that has ultimately led to this result, and that seems to me, within the shortest possible time, to declare victory over this epidemic and, after all, to propose that we abolish the state of emergency and some gradual relaxation of the measures we announce at both press conferences and through public information funds. We will continue to do so depending on the epidemiological situation in the Republic of Serbia. As for many other things, I disagree, and I'd like to try to give some explanations. You're saying that we showed one arrogant behavior by the authorities because there was no session of the National Assembly when it was declared or when it was decided to declare a state of emergency. I mean exactly the opposite. I think it would have been arrogant of us to ask for the National Assembly to be called back then, even though we knew that the virus was strong, that the epidemic was growing, that the virus was spreading every day and that the numbers were increasing every day. Today I read and listen to various representatives of the opposition who say – it is pointless that today you seek to abolish the state of emergency when the numbers are higher than they were when the state of emergency was introduced. I can't understand how these people don't understand that there's another extremely important factor in that, and that's the daily number of active cases. That's when the number of active cases grew every day, today every day fell, and today it fell again compared to yesterday. Today we have a percentage infected relative to the tested daily, practically, becoming less but clear downward trend, so the situation is diametrically opposite. She couldn't be any different than when we asked for a state of emergency to be declared today when we're asking for a state of emergency to be lifted. Now, why do I think we'd be boastful and reckless if we'd asked and asked the Assembly for a meeting? Well, because I think it's uncanny for us to have a clear majority in this session. So we would knowingly endanger the lives of 600, 700 or 800 people who participate in one session, so not only the MPs, but all the other administrations and all the other people who work daily to have a session like this. We would knowingly endanger them, knowing that the result would then be the declaration of state of emergency. I think it would be arrogant and reckless, because I know it would endanger lives. The virus was extremely strong at that point, it was spreading rapidly, we were in serious danger, and then we had the largest number of serious cases, which is not the case today. Indeed, then, they would consciously invite the MPs and all those who work in one assembly and put their lives and their health at risk. So, I don't think we've been acting too arrogantly. I think we have acted responsibly and with great consideration both to you MPs and to everyone who works at the National Assembly or the Ministry of Interior who provides, etc. I believe we will not agree on this, but I also wanted to explain once again to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia why I think our behaviour was responsible. For everything else, I, as Prime Minister, can speak for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the government of the Republic of Serbia treats and treats all citizens equally. I am, of course, against every violation of the ban on movement and the same people will be sanctioned. Everything else will be done by the authorities, but attitude towards all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is and must be the same, and thus the Government of the Republic of Serbia behaves. Now, it is an additional specificity that you have, as you yourself have recognised, one part of the political opposition mainly grouped around the Alliance for Serbia and some on the side, I cannot really send out who is now in that alliance, who is not in that alliance, who is working for whom, who is paying for it, etc., but it is the group that was gathering at the Assembly's staircase when, after all, former President Boris Tadic said, "Who thought of such stupid ideas," so on, everyone saw. So he admits himself that it's an extremely stupid and reckless idea, but it's their mutual debates and charms. Also at Gilas and Gilas's family's rally of support for a situation that was initiated by an event that did not happen, therefore, classical political spin, and now they have violated the movement ban. People who didn't have permission to move are being punished or will be fined, again, it's not up to me. But both you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia must be aware, that's what some MPs were talking about today, the only thing they want, as we saw today at the beginning of this session, are incidents. Incidents, physical provocations and physical calculation, it's their only policy and it's more than clear. Because of Serbia's future, because of Serbia's present stability in Serbia, it is extremely important that the government of the Republic of Serbia, that SNS be extra tolerance that these incidents should not be caused, which does not mean that the law will not be applied. The law will apply, but we'll try to avoid the incident at all costs. As we have seen all these days in the near past, for the last seven days, say, after all this morning in this House. So, that's my answer for you. I absolutely condemn every violation of the movement ban and I think it is extremely important and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be strict about it. Everything else we have announced will end up with the National Assembly, as we have so far finished. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia is here, it's not going anywhere, it's not running anywhere. We are here to respond to all the tasks that have been put before us, and certainly to show all due respect to the National Assembly and to the Members of the People, and to pass on to you all the laws to which to await. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73911	Thank you, Mrs. Brnabic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73912	The answer to the main question, Mrs. Brnabic, is not given. In what time do you plan to put draft laws in order to turn these regulations into laws? That was a major and essential question. What you've just spread the story, it's all right, of course, but I think you were joking when you said you didn't call the National Assembly because you have a majority. That's terrible to hear, believe me. That's terrible. What does that mean? You have a majority and we don't have to meet at all? There was a place for the people's congregation to meet, who was he who cut off that day, and cut off as a knife, from this day forward he cannot. No one's ever explained that to us. Besides, the government members, the crisis staff, there were at least a hundred of you every day without gloves, no masks, we know what we were looking at, we followed that, of course, in the media. One more thing, it's not always coming to be said, and there's not much to be said, you served the people for the first fifteen to twenty days, because all of them are members of the Crisis Staff, and I'm sure they're right to say, don't go out without masks, don't go out without gloves. Masks and gloves 15 to 20 days or gold to be paid in Serbia, and you say there were, perhaps, two, three days without it. It's just not true, and that's what needs to be known, as it's not true that they were quite full of shops. The truth is that people bought, probably, and what they didn't need, at least not in due course. I don't know what kind of fear it was, so they bought bigger quantities of flour, oil and sugar, but a few days if you wanted to buy one liter of oil or one kilo of sugar you couldn't, because a few days it wasn't there. We don't think it's a tragedy or that I don't know how terrible it is, it's quickly solved, but just please don't say it – we weren't for one second, unlike everyone else. We're not exactly the best, where we're lucky. We'd love to. Mrs. Brnabic, we understand, here, I'm finishing my colleague, we understand that you couldn't bring all these regulations as draft laws within such short notice. We understand that you can't do it within five days, but just please tell us, that we would vote for a decision to abolish the state of emergency, because we suggested that it would happen another 3rd of May at midnight, but to know how we would treat this proposal, to do it seriously and as we think it is, just tell us -- do you have any idea when we're going to have these regulations in the draft laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73913	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73914	Thank you for voting, I think it is really good news for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are looking forward to abolishing the state of emergency. Thank you and for your principle. You said it was necessary to remove the state of emergency. You'd vote to end the state of emergency. Unfortunately, on Serbia's political scene, we have many who say it shouldn't have been lifted, and then they will vote against abolition. So, I think that principle is really very important in every normal society and thank you for that. Now, you're an experienced politician, and I understand that you can turn me, as much, much more inexperienced, which would say, Colloquial, a few circles, but I didn't say we didn't call the assembly because we have a majority. On the contrary. I said that we did not call the congregation because calling the congregation in that situation would be arrogant, it would be reckless, because it would directly endanger people's lives, not 250 MPs, but 600, 700 or 800 people who needed to be gathered in one place to hold one session of the Assembly. So I said it wasn't safe and it wouldn't be responsible if we called, and then with me, I added that it certainly was called the Assembly, that it would be a decision. But it wasn't a motive whether we were calling or not. Like you said yourself, that's a motive we wouldn't call out, I guess, any. No, it would've been a shame if we'd called that session of the assembly. I believe me, 100% sure that we would have serious health problems afterwards, in that group of people, in that group of 700, 800 people who would be in that moment in one place. So, I think it was the right and message for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it really was a serious threat. So I think we've been more than clear. As far as shortages are concerned, there has never been a shortage of flour or oil. If something wasn't on the shelves at one point, it wasn't just because it was being bought until the moment someone put extra amounts on the shelves. But if something hadn't happened for two or three days, it didn't happen in Serbia. I think we should all be proud of that. As far as the law goes, we continue to work as soon as possible, and we have already passed some laws to the National Assembly during the day, and I believe that you will have a session to discuss these laws as of Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73915	Thank you, Prime Minister. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73916	Here, just a little bit. You said Mrs. Brnabic that you had the same relationship with all citizens, but that you do not want conflicts. Of course, no one in their right mind wants to fight, but you as a government, as a government, have no right to perform, you act on a less-resistance line. Why is it that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were caught on the street, on their way, in any public place at a time when the movement ban was led by the judge on duty for violations and the judge on duty for violations immediately handed them a sentence. I ask why, not because they shouldn't have, and they should have, because it had to be respected, but we ask why, because those in front of the Bosko Obradović Assembly, Đilas, Jeremic, what is the name of the DS and so on, are these boluments, why are they not? What are you afraid of? What kind of conflict would that cause? Aren't they like all the other citizens, shouldn't a judge come in here, on duty, as I repeat, worked in a few thousand cases as many of them in Serbia and why he didn't treat them the same way? Are they sacred cows? What are you afraid of conflicting with someone who's out there, I don't know what kind of opposition I am. The opposition, the opposition. The opposition to law is what sits here, which discusses with you, which gives you arguments and counterarguments. Of course, we don't have anything against their way of fighting, that's their thing, but they shouldn't have been allowed to be privileged so much that fifty of them can stand in the time of so-called. Police time. Where? In front of the Parliament. It shouldn't have happened without consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73917	Thank you. There's a word, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73918	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at first I want to say that I am very proud of my country, of how we have fought the pandemic, of all the measures we have implemented, that they have produced results and all that is planned to be done in the coming period, after the emergency has been lifted. I am proud of all our citizens who have respected the measures, the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of President Alexander Vukic, of the entire health system, of the police, of the military, of our volunteers. Since the end of February, as the director of the World Health Organization visited Serbia, when the topic of the meeting was Kovid - 19, from that day until the day of today, Serbia is responsible, organised, planned, teamed, bringing measures, implementing plans, putting human life first. So, number one -- saving people's lives in Serbia, with absolute respect for the opinion of the profession. That's what gave the results. The government fully respected the profession. Our best doctors are in crisis headquarters. The measures were taken as they were brought. Maybe someone wasn't okay with that. Maybe someone liked it, maybe someone took it easier, someone didn't. But it doesn't matter now. It is important that people in Serbia today realize that the measures were timely, that they were smart and most important -- that they produced results. We have shown responsible state policy and in line with the recommendations of the profession, Serbia today has the lowest mortality rate in this part of Europe. Because of such indicators, and those you spoke of at the beginning of this session, we can talk today about abolishing the state of emergency. The job of the state was to provide all necessary resources, protective equipment, medications, respirators, to ensure that there was enough and in stores, pharmacies, to bring its citizens from all over the world, to make all institutions work. While President Aleksandar Vukic did so, while the country was at risk, while people's lives were at stake, instead of contributing, we had a situation where others attacked both the government and President Alexander Vukic, as well as our doctors. That's how they inflicted the greatest evil on this country. In addition to the struggle led to preserve the lives of our citizens, Serbia has also led the fight, i.e., it has taken measures, to make plans for our country's economic recovery. Some measures have already been implemented, and some will be implemented in the coming period. It is very important to point out that Serbia had a good starting point on the economy. Due to all the measures and results that have been made since 2014, our finances are stable and we will certainly not say that we will easily eliminate the consequences, but we will be easier than some other countries and Serbia will be number one in Europe's growth. That is also what economic experts are talking about, the Ministry of Finance is also talking about, and relevant world institutions are talking about it. We have a pandemic, we have, unfortunately, a certain number of deaths, but we also have a significant number of cures. The important thing is that we didn't stop the health system, there was no collapse in the health system. We had a lot of help from China, from Russia, our partners from Europe, from the United States, and all thanks to the good and responsible policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic. Now that we're nearing the end of the state of emergency, when we have all of this on the one hand, on the other hand we have, I can say slightly, one madness on the political scene. You saw here this morning at the beginning of the session and performance of Boška Obradovica. He made fun of himself with his act here this morning. He tried to defile state symbols, damage the flag of the Republic of Serbia. It is not the first time he has expressed something against the flag of the Republic of Serbia. He recently used the flag to open the door to the House of the National Assembly, and he was free to enter as a MP. Apparently, he, or someone whose tasks he is carrying out, has something against the Serbian flag. The scariest and most monstrous things are brought forth through attacks against President Vukic, direct attacks on his children in the previous days, on Danil, Milic and Vukan, especially the last few days. In the absolute lack of political arguments and in expressing the highest degree of hatred, in panic attacks because the elections are closer, we have cowardly attacks on our son, Danil Vukic. That's creepy. The children of Alexander Vukic are daily exposed to attacks, threats, insults, and so on direct orders from Dragan Gilas. His children were never mentioned or attacked, and he performed a play the other night, starred and faked to cry, and immediately the next day he assigned a task - an attack on the son of the President of the Republic. None of the members of their alliance, an alliance for Serbia's destruction, have condemned such an attack. This is how they try to collect cheap political points. But the people in Serbia see it. The people of Serbia know everything. The people in Serbia want decent and modern Serbia. The people in Serbia know, and in the previous period, and they have now seen, through this situation that we have faced, who is leading responsible and state-run policy, that it is led by absolutely President Aleksandar Vukic and the management of the SNS programme. The people know that the state has given its maximum in the fight against Coronavirus, and that is why we can today say that a small Serbia has fought this pandemic, that we have the lowest mortality rate in this part of Europe and because of all those parameters you spoke of this morning, Prime Ministers, who are prescribing the World Health Organization, we can end the state of emergency and slowly bring life back to normal. Those who are promoters of all the worst in Serbia and haters of Serbia, they are in a panic because the elections are nearer, on June 21st will come soon, but that day the decent people in Serbia will definitely say who they support unequivocally. I repeat again, all praises for the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for medical workers, the Army, police, volunteers and all of our citizens. We from the SNS will give absolute support to the proposals on the agenda. We'll be voting soon and we'll put an end to the state of emergency. And Serbian citizens are ready together to, with respect for the measures, all preventive measures necessary until the vaccine is found, to fight this virus and to go together into economic growth and a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73919	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73920	Last week, we heard from the Prime Minister that it was not up to us to interfere with the Constitutional Court's work and that the Constitutional Court would make a priority decision on whether or not the Constitution was violated in the introduction of an emergency situation. Here, I'm asking you today, given that there is an emergency suspension on the agenda, has the Constitutional Court been sitting down, has he made any decisions or perhaps waiting for some better times, as other things have been decided years later? On the other hand, I am interested in whether the abolition of the state of emergency also refers to the north of Kosovo and Metohija, since the territory of Serbia has been subject to the measures of the ban on movement, and that is repeatedly pointed out, which is good for all citizens of Serbia to know, but I also ask you if there are Serbs south of Iber for you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Here, check the information, I guarantee you today that, for example, in the Serb enclave in the municipality of Strpce for all this time, no single mask has arrived, let alone anything else. On the other hand, when you were talking about economic measures, giving a minimumer for a three-month period, and only for those who fired less than 10% of the employees, it was really discriminatory, because when you were bringing economic measures, you had to say and bring in measures that would be taken from a business operator to a business operator depending on what they were dealing with and how they were affected. And on the other hand, it should have been thought, when it was said that only those who had fired less than 10% of the employees could get help, that they were automatically expelled from the system by a number of economic operators, especially those who were really threatened, and for these reasons they might have had to fire one number of workers, while for these other delays were actually just making a debt for next year. You had to, when I was talking about measures and aid to the businessmen, ask for and give write-offs, not debt, not borrowing them. On the other hand, you should have considered or decided that for at least these three months, the state would give up paying taxes and contributions by the micro- and small-sized entrepreneurs, because the state would not help these economic operators if they were to determine that they would pay all their debts in the following year. We're going back to what's fundamental, actually, that the state needed economics to provide write-offs, not debt. Thirdly, very important, since you said thank you and that part of helping businesses and talking about the loans they can take from the Development Fund, you should have realized that if you wanted to help the businesses, so they wouldn't be in debt, you would give them one piece of 25 to 70, 75%, depending on the case to the case. As we know, not all economic operators are the same, some of them were doing well at the time of this pandemic, selling their services well, even selling them jumped, for example. The pharmacy, on the other hand, let's take another example of those who make little money, like hair salons that were closed. You can't always make a decision, as well as for this 100-euro aid, as you say you want to help the businessmen, linearly make a decision for everyone. Not all of them are socially the same status, not all economic operators are equal to the number of employees, not all liquid, not all economic operators have millions. Well done to those who gave up public, large enterprises, they said they didn't need this help. It is said here that you did not help these, but also in charge of you as Serbian radicals, we ask that the businessmen be given a write-off, not a debt. This is crucial in this whole story of the measure of economic policy. As in any difficult situation, whether it was health, emergency or wartime, aside from all headaches and difficult things, there is always a need to remember heroes. We remember heroes from Paštrik and Koshar in war condition, but I think this way I want to point out that we need to remember that certain initiatives are being carried out, that they are talking about heroes, and one of the really great heroes is now the late Dr. Miodrag Lazic, a surgeon from Nis, who only two months before retirement could retire, but he remained to fight on the first line of defense against the coronary virus. The man was a volunteer in wars in Republika Srpska, where he defended the Serb people in Republika Srpska, the living legend of all Serbs. In his farewell letter, he said he was a surgeon for the troubled Serbian people. Such people should be highlighted and I hope that Serbia will thank him in some way in a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73921	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73922	Thank you. You mentioned one very important thing that my mistake, perhaps, we haven't talked about enough, which is to support our people in KIM during this crisis. For more reasons, we sent protective equipment in several ways, especially protective masks, for example, to Strpce. What you're saying is quite casual and I believe that you thought I didn't have enough information or that we weren't dealing with it enough. President Vukic and I are getting a daily report on what kind of assistance we've sent to our people for KIM. We sent it directly to the Strpce and there was redistribution over the House of Health of the Strpce, and let me give you an example of what it looks like. I've now opened a report, say, for today's KIM situation. On today's day alone: in the municipality of Gjilana we obtained and distributed the necessary medicines and food to the citizens; in the municipality of Vitina we disinfected the shops and rooms of the clinic in Vrbovac, provided and distributed 40 packages of assistance for socially endangered families, provided protection masks, gloves, visors, scuffanders; in the municipality of Strpce we provided a greater amount of medical alcohol for the needs of the health care facility; Zvečan - daily provision of medicines and food to citizens, today we provided medications and diapers for 275 persons; Leposavic – we successfully responded to 152 requirements for the purchase of medicines, for the needs of the medical home in Leposavic we provided protection funds in the municipality of Obilić, we provided medicines for 50 persons; in the municipality of Kosovska Kamenica we provided care with 100 persons and care for the families in Croatia, so we provided them with food and care in Croatia. We certainly take care of our people, regardless of whether they are in the north of KIM or south of Ibra, but indeed every day and great thanks to the office for KIM, Mark Djuric and his entire team, because people dedicatedly work on this and I think our people at KIM feel it. All this other stuff, and as far as economic measures are concerned, so this is how it works. You know, I think we gave it as much as possible. I haven't heard a single remark from the economy, which is what's most important. We've provided assistance and support for three months, three months' pay, even though the state of emergency lasted two months, and not two months alone. So we're standing on it. We are one of the seven countries in the world that has provided the greatest possible support for our economy. So 11% of our GDP, 5.1 billion euros. We're also trying to help sectorally. Now we've solved the problem for independent artists. We invest in our citizens and their additional spending and that 100 euros, which I think is extremely good and will return to the budget and our economy, that is, the budget through our economy, which is the best possible effect. We can talk about whether more grants were needed or not. I believe in our economy, and I believe that these are favourable loans or guarantee schemes, the Development Fund, that it's all something that our economy will be able to use in the best way, and at the same time it's completely transparent and can control any transactions, so there are no abuses, and ultimately abuses come when there are a lot of grenades, or funds that give away. At this point, our economy doesn't need it, and we're actually paying those three salaries. We didn't treat everyone the same way. We've separated the sector of micro, small, medium-sized enterprises and family companies from large enterprises. Those receiving state subsidies in any way for jobs do not fall under this support. So we made sure that we really had the most fair attitude, which can be applied equally, uniformly to all our economic entities. And this certainly isn't even the end of support, we are now thinking about sectoral support. We're working on it both with the PCS and with many other organizations. And finally, as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I said several times, we respect the division of power, the division of responsibility. I have no right to comment either on the Constitutional Court's work or on their decision. I hope that decision comes as soon as possible. This is in the best interest of our country and it is certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia who is looking forward to a decision by the Constitutional Court. As much as I can appeal to her as soon as possible, I'd like to do it, but I'm not sure she's in my jurisdiction at all. So, the Constitutional Court is certainly divided by power far above me, as Prime Minister or representatives of the executive government, so I will not interfere in their work, but I would like to see that decision as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73923	Thank you, Mrs. Brnabic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73924	What are you applauding? Well, unfortunately, Mrs. Brnabic, here's proof that you're speaking here at the end of the day, because what does that mean? How much is it, exactly? You're the Prime Minister. You say a larger amount was sent to the municipality of Strpce. I said, masks, here's what I'm telling you now. It wasn't sent. Ask the citizens south of Ibra if they got, in the end, did they get any help? No, she didn't make it. And I'm informed on a daily basis and believe me, it's better than you. On the other hand, you say it was sent to Gjilan. Well, since you know that, you're probably better informed than I am, and how many Serbs live in the Gjilan municipality? How much has that been sent exactly? How many addresses did that get to? How many Serbs live in the municipality of Gjilana, Prime Minister? The second one stops, when you're talking about economic aid, so you're supposed to go first, to focus on financial resources to have for liquidity and for the crafts of economic operators, and this one, this one can only be support. And on the third hand, you regulations that you've been making, you're in violation of it on your own. A regulation by the government of the Republic of Serbia that parents who have children under the age of 12 stay home and follow with them through RTS, a good decision. Then what happened to those parents? They learned that their old vacation had been lifted by law enforcement, and they are now returning to their jobs from tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and teaching continues. Does that mean now that these kids are under 12 years old, now you can normally let them have RTS and follow and stay home alone? So when this regulation suits you, when it's broken, it doesn't work? Is this true? Is it true the Minister of Education introduced a work Saturday this week? We're terminating the state of emergency, we're talking about going out into the sun. Those who respected 45 days of isolation, instead of taking the children to the sun on Saturday, will have to follow RTS. You really have incredible decisions, but I'd like you to answer this question, why isn't it done this way?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73925	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Brnabic, don't mind some things to my colleague. Indeed, I ask you this because when owners, entrepreneurs and owners of small and medium-sized enterprises pay taxes in 2020, they pay an advance based on the traffic they make in 2019, so the government suspended payment for a certain period of time and will pay for the final statement of the final account in early 2021. That means, if they've worked less and made less traffic, they'll pay less taxes. But don't mind, I'm telling you, this colleague of mine, I believe he truly loves helping Serbia. He does, but he doesn't know. It's a bit of a bigger problem, so let's just let people who know do it. Also in terms of economic assistance, when the whole of Europe and the good part of the world are on their knees and when many of the world's economies are entering a recession that has to be overrun in part with us, even if none of them have been infected by Corona, it is important that state aid arrives in time to give those expected results you have when you create an economic programme for reviving and launching the economy. According to this model that was proposed, it would take years, as long as anyone alive, who's dead, but it's important that we talk about something, just to criticize it. Since the beginning of the pandemic that has hit Serbia and the measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Crisis Staff, there has always been one legal issue, which is the way of introducing an emergency situation in the Republic of Serbia and the measures implemented and their efficiency. Many have started their discussions with the fact that the measures are unconstitutional, that they violate human rights, that they restrict freedom of speech, political expression and so on and so on. I've listened to a lot of stupid things, I can say, but one thing that surprised me most is that most of my colleagues don't want to accept as a fact and as a fact that at times when an epidemic or pandemic began to occur in Serbia, call it whatever you want, that we knew very little about this disease, that our experts only knew in exchange experiences with experts from countries that had already been affected by the pandemic of Corona and that there was a certain danger of how to react in the right way to one such accident, cataclysmicism, pandemic, call it whatever you want. Then someone says, "Let's call the Assembly, set up a state of emergency." One option is for the National Assembly to introduce a state of emergency, however, no one wants to accept certain facts that exist to make such a decision. The first fact is that the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the measures they would bring to me even in an emergency would have to be timely and no one would want to accept it as a fact. Everyone was ready to discuss here for four, five days, a week about whether to introduce an emergency and that the entire state and the entire system were waiting to go into battle with the pandemic of Corona. That's one scenario, but let's say we had time and political will to bring it up quickly. Let's see this second scenario, and there are only two possible, and the third one was not possible, which is to gather us here, a few hundred, now we know that at least one colleague was infected with Koron, imagine that 200 MPs from all over Serbia sat down for a day or two with a colleague who was infected, so the National Assembly would be a source that would spread to Corona throughout Serbia. To ignore Belgrade, to ignore the services that are here and live in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. But for some, it's always important to deal with the form rather than the essence, because there's got to be a problem, something to point out as a failure. They're still saying-- unconstitutional. Excuse me, Mrs. Brnabic, as far as I know, the procedure was initiated by the Ministry of Defense, you signed full capacity as Prime Minister. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, signed this in full capacity as president of the Republic, and the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, at the full capacity of the president of the Assembly. What's so unconstitutional? Did the congregation later give consent to that decision? Yes, it is. Then let's question it. You know what surprises me the most? This part of the opposition that wasn't here was somehow the loudest, former regime, about introducing a state of emergency. First they said Serbia had no means and ways to fight Corona, so when they saw that it was not true, they began to convince Serbian citizens that there was not enough protective equipment in the medical facility, that healthcare professionals were at great risk etc. bigger than it takes, etc. Well, when that turned out to be incorrect, then they caught on to the story of the constitutionality of emergency and civil liberties and rights, so it's the weirdest thing for me to hear from Nenad Konstantinovic, Marko Đurisic, Zoran Zivkovic and others. There are a few of us here who know very well that the state of emergency was introduced in 2003, and that what they represent as fighting organised crime was all but that. It was also the rescue of their political fates, some and their lives, because of the co-operation with criminals and tycoons who decided to strike at them, so they punished the whole state for it, and the gods and political inexperiences and how they arrested them. How is the state of emergency introduced? Now, check this out, the state of emergency is proposed by the government under the 1990 Constitution. What government? Somebody tell me which government suggested introducing a state of emergency? Zivkovic was not the prime minister at the time, his government had not yet existed, so the government stops its mandate when the prime minister ceases office, then ministers are just a technical part of the government that performs certain urgent tasks, nothing more. The government that suggested a state of emergency didn't exist. Let's move on, the decision to introduce a state of emergency on the government's proposal from the Constitution in 1990 must be signed by the president of the Republic of Serbia. Did the president of the Republic of Serbia sign it? It's not. Who signed it? President of the National Assembly. Can the president of the National Assembly do that? He can't. The 1990 constitution was precisely defined when the president of the Assembly took over the role of the President of the Republic, when he was resolved and when he resigned, regardless of the term of office of the then President of the Republic, he is the President of the Republic until the election of the new president. But he didn't want to sign it, so she remembered, it seems to me that her name was Angelka Dimitrijevic, she worked here in the Assembly, she remembered that somehow she could do it with some marginality of rights by Natasa Micic, and that's why she was rewarded by being immediately placed as Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These human rights fighters, let's see what their state of emergency looked like through their orders? Their first order is to restrict the right to freedom -- the police have the right to forcely bring and retain in the official premises 30 days of any person with a solution allowed to appeal to the interior minister, the detained person does not have the right to defend himself, read the lawyer, where Nenad Konstantinovic is, and about his retention, the ministry eventually informs members of the family. It seems to me that you were a People's MP back then, Mr. Dacic. It was very dangerous then to be an opposition. Moving forward, the Director of the Security Information Agency may, according to natural and legal persons, take steps that deviate from the principle of non-violence of the secret letter and other means of communication and without the decision of the competent court. Let's move on, authorized official is allowed into someone else's apartment and other rooms without a court order. So anyone could, any cop, walk into your house, into your building, into your apartment, and do whatever they wanted without the right to judicial protection. Now, look at this, we're talking, we now have one limited human right, it's a limited right of freedom of movement that has been in an emergency and that will only be valid for a few more hours. The suspension of the right to strike - the right to strike is lifted, item 6, and the first orders - the suspension of the right to strike allows the Emergency Measures Act, so the suspension of the right to assembly shall be prohibited from calling and holding choirs and other public gatherings of citizens subject to prior application of the MUP in accordance with the law. We move forward, banning political, trade union and other action aimed at disrupting and preventing the application of the measures during the emergency. Let's move on, no public intelligence, no press breaking up. We now come to the case of Lalic, and other information on the reasons for declaring the state of emergency and applying the measure at the time of emergency. The Ministry of Culture had the right to ban any television show, any radio show, from confiscating the entire circulation of certain newspapers. Now, I ask fellow MPs, if we say to a politician who's corrupt that he's a thief, what do we say to a journalist who, knowingly for money, is untrue in order to cause panic, fear and endanger the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I don't see the difference between a thief and a lying journalist. They both do it for money. We can thus list for a long time how they carried out the emergency and how much it was in accordance with the Constitution, but I would just like to say a few more things, which is that although the National Assembly worked in full capacity, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia has been replaced by the V.D. President of the Republic, Natasa Micic, first appointed Judge of the Supreme Court of the President of the Novi Sad District Court and later as President of the Supreme Court. As without a decision of the National Assembly, the Republic Public Prosecutor, Sinisa Simic, was removed. Now, that's a coup, and that's how they did it at the time of Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic. Dragana Gilasa. Now those here, sitting in front of the Assembly, I guess I saw Boris Tadic, sitting on a styrofoam outside the National Assembly, I guess he's hoping that he'll use the Styrofoam to beat President Aleksandar Vukic in some of the elections, if he comes out at all, and I can say that the president, former president of the Republic of Serbia, is threatening his political insolences. That's what they were when they were in power. That's what they are now. That's what they'd be if they came back to power. It's that misery I've seen about Dragan Gilas defending his children. It's natural for every parent to defend their children, but I guess it defends them when someone attacks them. The fact that he branded his children as a thief, as a tycoon, as a criminal, is unfortunate and cannot defend them from it. But I have to ask a question, if he loves his children so much, why doesn't he like those same kids he sends to fight with the police, like it was 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019? How can a man like that be trusted more? He doesn't care about anyone's child. All he cares about is money, just making money, and trying to get people to shoot where their feelings are deepest, to cause some kind of emotion. It's only fortunate that no one trusts him anymore, because people know how short he's been, how much richer he's gotten, and how much more reckless he'd be if he came back to power. How reckless he is only shows that the attacks and children of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, only because Alexander Vukic cannot win the elections with the help of violence or Styrofoam.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73927	Thank you. Necessa Sarovic, please. People's ambassador, throws it out of place. ) The MP did not mention you, who mentioned you, we all forgot, so Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Brnabic, I must admit that I expected much more from you, although generally my expectations of your government and your government are not great, but with the proposal to abolish the state of emergency we expected and had to get a serious report, especially given that when you introduced the state of emergency there was no explanation, this time the explanation had to be extremely thorough, it had to have hundreds of sides and each ministry had to report individually to the MPs and the National Assembly on all the measures they had implemented within their portfolios. Instead, we've got your hollow story. You came here today to talk about everything and everything except what's on the agenda. Most of the day you were talking about Gilas, talking about Bosko Obradovic, talking about Vukic. The wolf, if he wanted, could be here. I believe he was obliged to be here, especially given that he was the first signator of the Emergency Regulation, he had to be here and answer the questions of the MPs, but it was obviously beneath him. Second, where are your ministers, Mrs. Brnabic? Only Hansel Dacic spent a part of the day here, answering questions a little bit. Where are the other ministers? Well, this is one of the most important discussions during the entire assembly. There had to be a minister of military here. He is a man who formally proposed to the government of the Republic of Serbia to abolish the state of emergency. Based on what arguments? Imagine, he suggested Vulin and he's not here to answer any questions. Where is the minister of police, to ask him what he was doing during the emergency and what was his portfolio doing, his ministry? Where's your Minister of Health? You didn't find it appropriate to tell them to come. Every minister had to be here or you were so politically illiterate, so you didn't know it or you didn't have the authority to say it – come to the session and sit down from the first minute to the last minute. Given that the accounts are now slowly coming together and the debate is over, my assessment for you and your government and for your entire session today and your participation is two, on a scale of one to ten, maybe two minus, maybe two too many. This must have looked completely different. If you want to argue with some Gilas, then schedule a television duel for him, invite him home for coffee, and discuss it freely. He's not an MP, he has nothing to do with this subject. What you're politically interested in or itchy, so it's your problem privately, but it's the topic of today's session, the agenda is to abolish the state of emergency, that's what you were obliged to talk about. If you want to court Alexander Vukic, then find some other way, some other hall, so you do, you have party meetings, hang out there, not here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not when the topic we're talking about is so important. I expected you to announce today practically complete statistics, all the facts, that we have in the material, to consider before the session, to see exactly what is and what is not, to have the opportunity to catch you in a lie. And not like this is best, no data, nothing anyone could get caught up in a discussion and you're the smartest. The MP speaks for five minutes, and then you're 25, and you think that's how you prove political supremacy. Imagine, is that democracy the way you see it? I don't think it should be. We haven't heard how many medical workers are infected. How many members of their families are infected? How many medical workers have passed away? Who will bear responsibility for their death? Let's hear how many police officers have been infected on duty, doing their job? How many members of their families? How many of these in the Army and members of their families? We don't know anything about that. Let's hear how many state gerontology centers did the COVID virus get into? How many of them are infected? How many died? Who's going to be responsible for that? And practically in all, almost all state homes for old faces entered the coronaryvirus, and apparently you've been taking measures since day one, being guarded by the military, having all the necessary equipment and re-entering the coronary virus everywhere. Is that why you quit? Is that total incompetence? But you're hiding the ministers. Well, then you'll be responsible for them. How many criminal charges have been filed? We know about that one for the director of the Gerontology Center in Nis. And here's a few days ago we had a similar case in Negotin, so if someone can understand, to justify somehow entering the virus after three days since it was registered in Serbia, but how can you after a month and a half, when you had time to take all the measures, to find out, to sort yourself out, to check out, to establish the system? You introduced an anti-constitutional emergency on March 15th. Mrs. Brnabic, on March 15th there were 46 infected in Serbia, 46 for the first ten days since the first case. Today in Serbia 9,791 are infected and 203 dead and you claim that we needed an emergency when 46 people were infected, when no one was on the respirator, when no one had died of the coronary virus, and today when almost 10,000 people in Serbia were infected and over 200 died, we no longer need any measures. In the past ten days nearly 50 people have died, over the past ten days 2,000 people have been infected, ten days before the emergency situation of only 46 infected. And you say: We no longer need measures. What logic is that? What kind of waist is that? That's what you need to answer. The cafes worked five days after the National Assembly. That could? You say – now the National Assembly can occupy, and 213 times more chance to get a coronary virus today, because there are so many registered cases in Serbia than it was on March 15th. And then 500 masks could be obtained, if that was a condition and 500 pairs of gloves. You can't crush democracy because of that. Secondly, you've imposed some measures, but the measures for someone are not valid for someone. Who is it that decides when they are and when they are not? How do measures apply to ordinary citizens of Serbia whom you arrested and led immediately to the judge for violations when someone breaks curfew and charges huge penalties, and when Mr Gilas, Sergei Trifunovic and the rest of your ideological clones are gone, then there are no police? I can, and this huge group of people, in broad daylight in front of the National Assembly, the police aren't responding. You say, "He will react later." Well, that shows selectivity. If the government's measure is that anyone who breaks curfew gets arrested immediately, so why don't you do it to Gilas? Is it because he's the founder of the SNS? You still remember that. And because he's your favorite opposition. Right, founder of SNS, he, Đilas, Miki Rakic and others, that's the point. Another very important thing, Mrs. Brnabic, you have declared that the state secret is how many respirators we have. If it was a state secret during the state of emergency, no more secrets, now it's time for everything to become public and you were obliged to give us that information, to hear how many respirators in Serbia were not in 2009 but in 2012 when you came to power. Let's see how many of them were before the outbreak, see how much you got, from whom, at what prices and in what procedure. Let's see what goes beyond the law in Serbia, past public procurement, past the tender.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73929	Thank you. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73930	I can fully understand that we have to talk a hundred times about some things, but I can't live with that there's one session of the Assembly where there's talk of a state of emergency, about introducing a state of emergency and a situation in the Republic of Serbia where all the relevant ministers are sitting and answering questions for two days, and then you're asking those same questions at the Assembly's session with a completely different topic, which is to end the state of emergency. I've tried to make clear and unequivocally clear, with perfectly exact information as to why it makes sense now to end the state of emergency. I'm sorry that you didn't follow that up and that you seem to have completely missed that exhibit of mine and my argument. I'll try to explain it one more time. So when the state of emergency was in place, we then had a drastic jump in the number, or percentage of the infected. You can't, I mean it's pointless to talk about absolute numbers because, compare both the state and the dates because it's not the same and I can't be the same absolute numbers when you test 300 or 400 people a day and you test 6,000 or 7,000 people a day. That's why there are percentages, because there are, in the end, some waist that looks at these data, which makes estimates that we monitor every day. On March 10th, we had 4.27% of those infected compared to those tested. On the 11th of March 11,92%, it is true, on March 12,97%, on March 13, 14.64%, on March 14, 17.16% of all subjects tested, and so it all grew, so after March 24, 33.08%, on April 3, we had one of the hardest days, we had even 41% of the total tested, we had that day and eight deceased, the hardest day compared to the total deceased was April 14th when we had nine deaths, but also a very difficult day in terms of infected versus the 17% tested. What you're seeing today with nearly 10,000 people is what's been pulling away ever since. Now, we have since April 28th, as I said, I have a continuous decline since April 20th, 10% infected compared to the total test, and that April 20th is the last time that we have a two-digit number of infected compared to the percentages tested, which is extremely important because it shows whether the number of patients falls or rises compared to all the tested ones. We've had below 5% since April 28th. It is said that if you have seven days below 5%, you can relax the measures, you can end the emergency state, but of course until you find the vaccine, it will go further into precautionary measures and that will be that new normality. Wearing masks, protective gloves, social distances, physical distances etc., etc. So, you here compare the grandmothers and frogs, by accident or on purpose. But it's on the side now. The situation today in Serbia cannot be compared to the situation when our fault looked like this, and our guilt today looks like this. So it's realistic that the number of tests has increased, but it's most important that the percentage of those infected is compared to the ones tested. Not to get deeper into it, it seems to me that everyone who wanted and had the patience to listen understood me several times. Today we also have a drastic reduction in the daily number of active cases. We've got hospitals that are slowly emptying out, we've got fairs, temporary hospitals, Chaaire and we're still closing down. So the epidemic calms down. We can continue to prolong the state of emergency, but it would be an abuse and it wouldn't be responsible. You have countries across Europe that have been in a much worse situation than the Republic of Serbia during the whole crisis. Italy, for example, that abolished national quarantine on May 4th and slowly began to relax the measures. Allowed to gradually launch production works, construction, wholesale, movement etc., etc. Romania also, which announced the suspension of the state of emergency on 14 May where the situation was much more difficult, with the number of deaths approaching a thousand, will be opened for salons, dental offices, museums, outdoor sports, and so on. Austria, it has been relaxing since May 2nd, all the countries they have and at all times had a much worse situation than Serbia. So this is the smartest, most responsible thing to do. If you think it is not responsible, it is your right, but I guarantee that this is the most responsible, the smartest thing that could have been done to ease the measures in a safe way slowly, that the economy is going to work, that Serbia is going to live without excessive danger, with respect for all other measures. So that's what I can tell you, and for all of this, if we've disappointed you, I'm sorry for that, we've done our best. If that score is one to ten, two minus, and that's fine, I think in the end, regardless of the political preferences, the personal preferences, that the result is the only one that counts. I'm sorry that your score is two minus when Serbia has the least possible number of deaths, although one is too much, when we have kept the situation under control at all times, when there were no shortages. I think we've done our best, that we've given our best. I believe you might be better off, but about that after. So thank you very much and for that little trust you have for that two. We will continue to work in the interests of citizens, we will do our best, we will treat all citizens the same, we will work for our Serbia, and that is all we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73931	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73932	Mrs. Gojkovic, I, as you have seen, answered the Rules of Procedure and showed it to you in good time. I must admit that I was surprised that you had not responded before and that you had not interrupted the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic in her presentation. You know, here he became a manipulative objector, and I reported to a member of 107, or by a member who guarantees that every speaker in the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. However, as of October 5, 2000, so while they were yellow, your ideological clones, to this day, are constantly falling from session to session, you may think that you can demean MPs in every way possible. You can't, Mrs. Brnabic, tell me, as a MP, that I'm mixing... (President: There is no personal address, you know that. ) Here, Mrs. Gojkovic, you can't say that the MP is mixing grandmothers and frogs. I didn't make any false information. I took the data out of the "covid-19.rs" website. I guess they're true, if they're not, then that's your problem. The moment I was talking about was a total of 268 tested, it's on the site. So over 17% at that point were those 46 confirmed cases. I haven't even delivered my judgment on your measures, but I asked for additional information that you didn't provide and you disrespect me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73933	There's no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73934	You say I missed your exposure. You were obliged to put it in the material. It's the National Assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73935	Abuse of the Rules of Procedure, no replica. You're off, no one can hear you. There's no abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic: This is an abuse. No, it's just work. (Nemnja Sarovic: Back off from the MP's group's time. Who would hurt the Rules of Procedure here or abuse? Nobody. So, article 107. You said I did not have the same criteria in relation to the relation of MPs - ministers and ministers - MPs. That's not true. Here, take the paper from the other day and see what the headlines were like. They say -- scandalously, the president of the National Assembly took the word and warned the defence minister Vulin. Then, the next day, they say -- the scandal, it ended the exhibition by Ana Brnabic. So, you weren't at any part of the session. That's how I've been doing it for years. So, no, you're wrong. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't allow anyone to replicate. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73936	I was expecting, the chairman, to see the previous speaker the other night in Vracar, when a gathering of support was organized for his friend Dragan Gilas. To be honest, counting on their years of friendship, counting on their fruitful friendship and cooperation, so I was surprised he wasn't there. I hope Gilas doesn't mind him. He will be forgiven by Gilas, considering his congregation performances. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, we from the SNS, as has been said many times today, strongly support the proposal for a decision to abolish the state of emergency in Serbia, which today is on the agenda and certainly is what is the main topic today and certainly is what is most important news for the citizens of Serbia, as much as some have tried not to do so. I only hope that this will be the most important news for RTS, since when you go to the RTS portal, you can only read what Zivkovic said today, what Marinika said, what some Alexic said, Bosko Obradovic, as if someone in Serbia were interested in what they have to say about this. But, well, it's for another debate. We are pleased, Mrs. Brnabic, with the fact that, as a state, we have fought successfully with this epidemic, that we have prevented the catastrophic scenarios, that we have prevented the collapse of the health system, and that, here, today, at this moment, I am ahead of the conclusion of the emergency. We are proud, as the SNS parliamentary group, of all the members of the health sector, of all our healthcare workers, but we are also proud of the responsible leadership of the state that has been reacting at every opportunity, listening in due time to all the recommendations given by the profession and applied on the ground. On the other hand, we have opportunities today, as well as all these days, to watch various unsuccessful theatre performances by those who have raised the scale today, that is to say, shifted standards in political culture, in prose, in disdain and in haughtiness. And, yes, I mean this incident that happened this morning, whose vinence is Bosko Obradovic, who tried forcefully to prevent the National Assembly from working, so he went after the national flag, as always. There is always a national flag when Bosko Obradovic is around. I don't know what's wrong with his national flag, but I'm glad he's finally respected and applied Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and is effectively prevented from savagery. All this, Mrs. Brnabic, is an expression of impotence, because these days, and for who knows which time, they have experienced that citizens of Serbia clearly and loudly tell them that they do not accept such a policy, that they do not accept politics without ideas, politics without programmes, politics without politics, a policy that offers nothing, and especially nothing good for the citizens of Serbia. That's how they showed that their policy is, in fact, whatever Alexander Vukic says or does, well, they'll be against it. They have no arguments, but they'll be strong against it at all costs. We have a situation that has also been discussed today by fellow Djukanovic, and absurd situations that those most resented the introduction of a state of emergency in Serbia, today most strongly resent the fact that we are abolishing the state of emergency. They have repeatedly resented the fact that we are taking various measures, the measures for banning movement and the other measures that were necessary, and today they are the loudest in their efforts to remain in force, because they are against the abolition of the state of emergency. It is true that the decision to introduce a state of emergency has also been made on the recommendation of the profession. The waist, the crisis staff thinks that all the necessary conditions have been met, and we're doing it, as much as someone doesn't like it, as much as someone has something against it, and it's obvious that many have something against it. It is obvious that in Serbia there are those who are against abolishing the state of emergency. It is obvious that in Serbia there are those who are politically motivated, therefore, with a desire to remain an emergency in action in Serbia for a long time. And I wonder why, why? Is it because of political reasons, is it because of political ambitions, is it because of the petty particular interests of individuals? Is that why Dragan Gilas performed those performances the other night outside his building? Is that why Bosko Obradovic was here this morning for petty political interests, because someone estimated that he would be more suited to the elections in the fall? Because someone is convinced that there is a certain dissatisfaction with a number of citizens, so it counts for him to score some petty political point at the end of that dissatisfaction. Yes, I mean Dragan Gilas and Bosko Obradovic. When we're on the subject of hypocrisy, for the end, I just want to point to a top-of-thesis replacement. So we have a situation where someone accused, not someone, but Dragan Gilas, accused Alexander Vukic of attacking his children, although it never happened, even though it was a complete lie, but he accused Alexander Vukic of attacking his children. Then he played a bereaved, crying, unprotected victim of the regime, victim of terror, and then the next day, so only 24 hours after that, he attacked the most monstrous, most brutally through his portals attacked son Alexander Vukic in the most brutal way, the same Alexander Vukic, whom he slandered just one day ago. That's why Dragan Gilas, and that's why the citizens of Serbia should know, the master of spinning, the master of the thesis, the master of lies, the master of fraud and the miserable attempts of intruding and attacking the family of the president of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73937	Thank you. Does anyone by the law of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want to speak? The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73938	Thank you. For the end of this debate, before I draw a conclusion before the party's assembly club SMS and MPs representing a united democratic Serbia, I would like to ask two more questions if we can get more concrete answers. The first concerns the stimulation that healthcare professionals should receive, again, I'm sorry, there is no finance minister or Minister Loncar, I hope you know the answer. So that stimulation is not a permanent character, and the increase in their wages would have to be resolved differently, i.e. that you here at least get assurances that it will be permanently resolved. What is there, too, is that the problem with the application of this provision is that healthcare professionals who are on vacation or who are suffering from Kovid - 19, they also do not have the right to this 10% stimulation. Since I talked about it at the previous session when we were confirming the state of emergency, in the meantime a very large number of health workers came to me and confirmed this. The second thing that seems to me to be missing here on several occasions was a little bit and abused by the MPs at the last session, since the defence minister was specifically asked, I did not get an answer, but now there are you, foreign ministers, and it would not be bad if you, as foreign minister, made it clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom the EU really is a friend of the Republic of Serbia. I will now, for the sake of the public, present some information, especially because we have here and by some MPs quite inappropriately speaking and I think the facts are important to bring to the House of the People's Assembly. For the last five years, we have received 1.8 billion euros in support from the EU, 44 times the support of the Republic of China. Health alone has been invested around 161m euros, 12 times more than China, and if it hadn't been for this support by the EU, our health system would probably have collapsed under the pandemic. Only during this state of emergency has the EU defined about 800m euros for the Western Balkans, of which 93m euros will be directed to the Republic of Serbia. It would be good if the foreign minister or the Prime Minister made clear on this matter. National MPs have the right and opportunity to talk about whatever they want, however, the official policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must be clear and precise and it would be good to confirm it today in the House of the National Assembly. I will ask you, Prime Minister, in the final word that we are not declaring the end of the state of emergency as a victory over the pandemic, because it and that it is not a victory, not because we did not respond well as a state, but because we are about to have a very long period of time to get used to what is now called a new normality as citizens. I've seen citizens who are non-shalantly treating this virus and the way we should treat it. I'm sorry it comes to this, but despite my good will to understand all your efforts, I think the greatest responsibility at this time in the government of the Republic of Serbia and you have to clearly determine what kind of behavior we are expected to have in the future, that citizens don't think that the moment the Assembly votes the end of the emergency, it means that they can be completely relaxed, free to move and act like they did before the emergency comes into effect. So I ask you to send a clear message from the House of the People's Assembly about the behavior that awaits us. For the end, in front of the MPs' Club of the Modern Serbia Party and the United Democratic Serbia, I thank all doctors, volunteers, journalists, traders, logistics, all those who have helped to demonstrate a rather good behavior in the conditions of the pandemic that has affected the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73939	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I will apologize to all Serbian citizens for the behaviour of my colleague Bosko Ljotic, a team before today's big Orthodox holiday. Apparently, Two people no longer have faith in each other. The other thing I noticed, I noticed this -- it was enough, as Atlagic calls it "the king of bankruptcy," and I remembered his saying, the saying of this one that looks at the crystal spheres next to him, and his saying was striking to me. He says I don't allow it, you make us look like fools. Somebody's making a fool of him! Here, I say, no one makes a fool of him, he's authentic. He's an authentic specimen and nobody needs to make one. Now you can see what kind of patients I've been dealing with for three years, until somehow in a verbal way we ran off, so they resorted to various violent moves. No accident, no traffic, no helicopter crash, no flood, no infectious disease that these unfortunates allegedly boycott the National Assembly, if necessary, have not tried to abuse for political purposes. That's what our people need to know. What I've concluded, half of those unfortunate people would like to put an end to extraordinary measures, half of them say you shouldn't have introduced them, and then the other side says, well, no, like, if there weren't any choices, extraordinary measures should still take place. Because the only reason to postpone the election would be if the extraordinary measures were to continue. Our people are wonderful, honest, honest, working people, he wants to work. Obviously, the infectious disease is a little weak, that it has gone beyond its peak, that the health system can serve for no God, if this disease is getting worse again and because of the economy, the economic power of the country, later and military power, political power, etc., we should start working, because money is being earned, money is not being printed, money is not being thrown out of the helicopter alone, money needs to be made, and that way we fill the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture has borne a burden, and you, Madam Prime Minister, everything you've taken from the stock reserves of budget rebalancing to return, possibly another, God forbid, a series of infectious diseases can wait ready, as we've welcomed this, and have agriculture with the system from the Faculty of Agriculture, Science, the field to processing is a real treasure, and we must keep that wealth safe, so before we've improved the production of machinery and parts of tractors that come together and products in the Republic of Serbia. What about the press? I have to say something. I'm unhappy here. If we arrest people from social networks who spread false news, and forgive journalists, journalism is not a privilege for me, freedom of the media means freedom to convey information, not misinformation and false news. A journalistic profession can't be a cover for lying about spreading false news. If not more, their responsibility is greater, they must respond as much as those who spread false news. In particular, journalists' organizations, the type of Independent Association of Journalists of Vojvodina, are known to have spread false news. I'm not for them to be forgiven. I'm not a journalist stalker, but journalists have to deal with information placements, not misinformation. Today every, not to say, political shush, every political opponent registers a portal and has become a journalist, and in fact it is a political inexperience who in various ways is trying to harm the authorities, but in doing so, damage to the state. The state is a community of people. Our people are a wonderful people, and they deserve us to put an end to the state of emergency, and my God, they can be measured without it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, worse than the virus is fear of the virus, and we need to get rid of it slowly. Those who pound into pots, our citizens should know, Gilas and the team don't beat into pots hungry and thirsty, full, drunk, angry and hanged, they beat into those pots and for no reason at all. In 1997, we banged into pots to admit the election results, and they bang into pots so there wouldn't be a choice, one wants the state of emergency to last until New Year's Eve, two years, the other would be lifted. I don't get them at all. Fear is a great thing, and Gilas' fear is fear of wealth. He now has nothing but fear of losing him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73941	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73942	I thank the president. I see colleagues are impatient, expecting a vote. It is clear that these measures, i.e. these measures and the proposal, will be adopted. It is clear that there is a majority for this, but I must admit, that rarely when I heard so many imaginative explanations, as in this debate today and last week, why the Assembly could not in such or similar format meet at the beginning of this crisis and vote, or to make a decision on the introduction of emergency and emergency measures. So, I heard, of course, and Mrs. Brnabic, I also heard colleagues from the ruling coalition, but it is interesting that even they, meaning representatives of the government, including serious lawyers, and a lot of lawyers, have spoken much more and much more of the precedent and instructions of the example, according to them unconstitutional or suspicious behaviour of some previous authorities, than they have overly defended the constitutionality of this decision to impose an emergency past the National Assembly. As I said last time, various professions, various jobs have their positive and negative sides, pleasant and unpleasant. I heard Mrs Brnabić and that you instructed examples and dangers that might have arisen for the MPs and not only for them but also for the employees of the Assembly, that we met at the beginning of this crisis and seduced the state of emergency. But it's hard every job in its own way, this is a small risk, for MPs, compared to doctors, medical personnel took every day. So we can take it as part of the job, to some extent, just be even more rigorous, that could have been done. Another argument cited by both authorities and some colleagues from the ruling coalition is that this would take days and days to discuss, it was urgent. The debate didn't have to last for days, and here we are going to end in one day, and it could have been even more effective, so, especially when it's such an important thing, such as introducing emergency measures and emergency situations. So that was no reason not to meet and make a decision in a legally valid, constitutional way. On the other hand, you said, no problem, the Constitutional Court will say its opinion, he will reach a final verdict. That's true, but I have to admit that I have reasonable reasons for doubt and concern, our Constitutional Court, which, unfortunately, was mentioned here in the debate he knew to remain silent, to remain silent in some very delicate situations, and he simply had to answer. Start with, say, from the assessment of the constitutionality of the Brussels Agreement, when he had washed his hands just like that, declaring that agreement for a political agreement, and then God saw how many legal and all possible consequences arise from that call, and so on. the political agreement, which was adopted, not by this government, but by this assembly majority, and the signatory was present, Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, then in another capacity. Anyway, I mean, it's a lot of times, unfortunately, and I'll be happy to admit it to you, it's been before, it hasn't started with this majority, the ruling, that the Constitutional Court sensed things when he couldn't keep his mouth shut, and when the mandates were taken away from the MPs, and when at one point it wasn't known how many MPs there were in parliament and who was there, and so on. Finally, with the evaluations provided for in the Brussels Agreement and the consequences arising from it. He only answered about this so-called. With Bork's agreements, and in part, which means, the former democratic administration official concluded with representatives of Pristina, and then he called and put out force or at least declared some of these measures unconstitutional. But I must admit, some of those agreements that I have criticised in my own time, therefore, those Bork agreements that the previous government made, although implemented by this ruling majority, and that should be said, some of these agreements were the mother's soul compared to what unfortunately this ruling majority did, in several of its incarnations and its editions. In other words, the Constitutional Court isn't much of a confidant, I'd like to at least retroactively announce the way it was brought here. So, I agree that there has been an earlier flagrant violation of constitutionality, but that's no excuse for not being able to do what was supposed to be done here under the letter of the Constitution, which is to gather at one session in one day, half a day and declare a state of emergency. It has been mentioned how and of course that most would vote that decision and, for God's sakes, some even on my part, critics present and parliament say – so don't bother about it now, they would cause what they want anyway, but the procedure is important, the form is important to dear colleagues, regardless of who or when it suits. Even when its outcome is the same, the essence is not the same, when the content is the same, the form is important. The form demanded that this time the Assembly be called and she declares it. Not only that, now I'm moving on to a little bit more important, although this is also very important, but it's a more sensitive thing, I mean support measures. It exists, but support for government measures would be much greater if em had declared the National Assembly's decision, and further on, it now seems like science fiction, respected colleagues, but believe it would have been very normal and positively echoed in Serbia's public opinion and perhaps we wouldn't have these scenes that we're talking about now and these incidents that have taken place in recent days. It would be a very good and very healthy message that since the beginning of implementation and support for these measures in general or part, some other representatives of Serbia's political life, whether parliamentary, have appeared either out-of-parliamentary. If it was too much for you or Mr. Vukic or the Prime Minister to show up together, for example. with Alliance for Serbia leaders, e.g. I don't even know if it exists or if it's just some mythic creature, so it shows up with them. But what was wrong, what was the problem with a respected colleague? I'm saying now that it's been less and less, that the current and former president or two former presidents have come along and supported, said and advocated respect for the measures? There'd probably be fewer violations than there were, although there weren't too many now and there'd be an impression of some consensus. So, the current president. It does that, for example, when you like to call on Americans and American examples so often, that's what they do very often. When something is important, when a message that is symbolically important to the nation or needs to demonstrate unity, then all the previous presidents with the current president appear. Here you could, you have Mr Nikolic, he's from your party or founder of your party, Mr Tadic probably wouldn't say no, so that he could demonstrate that kind of message of solidarity and harmony. I say, perhaps some of these latest incidents would be less and would be greater, more plebiscite support by measures. As far as these measures are concerned, I said last time, perhaps you can honor someone's inconsistencies, indiscipline, not me, when it comes to these measures and the state of emergency. I was for those measures, in general. I was to introduce radical measures, not necessarily in this form, not necessarily in this degree of closure, but I did not object to the introduction of an emergency. I'd probably also vote for a state of emergency, although I'll be resented by some who look at me, but we'd have something that looks like parliamentary control measures and plus, we'd have this kind of broader consensus and support measures. This is how it came down, and this is the introduction to the key topic that we are most interested in, at least to the public, it's day-to-day political, although we must not forget what was happening to us, I think that such an approach would certainly prevent or reduce the number of objections, not just an emergency violation, but also the objections that the current opposition has to do with the behaviour of the current government during the emergency. This is how we had the case that only the President of the Republic and sometimes the Prime Minister appear and appear publicly to one of the ministers who is in charge of it. So, expert team office, so-called. The profession, regardless of what can be said at their expense, but the same must be praised, especially the work in depth, by the verticals of the health sector. I applaud him, take off his hat and everything he needs, with the surety of making mistakes he's made. I commended it and it is not very popular when it makes the opposition, especially in what little time they have at their disposal, I commended and specifically some resorts or some moves, all of them collectively go to your collective and account, from buying our fellow citizens around airports around the world. I commended the supply, relatively successful and good filling of our shops, independent, or minus medical equipment. There were shortages and there were plenty of them for a long time, as colleagues also said. I also commended this work on remote schools, a school organisation, and I commended the protection of the oldest citizens. There must have been results, although I think it might have been at a less drastic price or a less radical threat to the rights of that population, but protection has been achieved and that's why mortality is higher in these other categories. So it's no longer disputed. I don't think that's why I'm less of an opposition if I praise something, but a principled observation from how an emergency has been carried out, which is crucial, that it has been exploited, by circumstances or by intent, we can talk about this, about the endless seven-week propaganda of the government, the ruling party and the ruling leader. That's the fact of a respected colleague. And perhaps this resistance that exists now remains to this election is not and with me personally, this scheduled for June 21st, there are two reasons. One is medical, the other is political. I don't hide that there's a political one at all. We have had seven weeks of uninterrupted, continuous propaganda, that is, the promotion of government and the everyday appearance of the President of the Republic. Jovan Goldousty if it were, it'd be enough. Donald Trump was the only one who was somewhat competitive about it, so he realized it was hurting him, so he broke up with these daily conferences. No one else in the world has had that kind of everyday sessions. He may have had Kim Jong Un, but he was sick, obviously he had health problems so he didn't show up in public for a few weeks at all. I mean, if it wasn't for that kind of approach, I think to a large extent, we'd first have the larger unity that we need on the social scene. That doesn't mean we're all thinking the same thing, it just means we agree on some basic things. And more importantly, resistance to what the government proposes and resistance at the end of the day, and now these elections would be less or at least harder to defend, could be more difficult to defend, let's say, a boycott decision. I personally wasn't, unlike those colleagues, for a boycott of choice. I'd go out, if it wasn't for an emergency situation, I'd either go out with my list or I'd support someone else and go through to get through. But now I admit that it's uncomfortable for me to go to these elections that come after almost two months, not resets, not breaks, that's how you try to present it, but realistically serious, uninterrupted and uninterrupted propaganda of the ruling party and the ruling furniture. It's not good for democracy in Serbia. It's not even good for you as a ruling majority. From that I think it was reasonable, directional and my one, the only amendment that I have submitted in that direction, although I have no illusions that it will be adopted, but I simply urge you to pay attention to it, going towards relaxing the situation politically, that people should be given a break, a mental break, not to politicians, not to the parties, but to the citizens, to take a break from this stress and shock in which they were for a reason or for no reason. I think for a reason. That's why I supported the measures. That's why I didn't agree with some colleagues who thought it was all just, I don't know, conspiracy and talk. Unfortunately not. There's a disease, it's heavy. We don't know how much longer, we don't know what shape they'll be coming back in, maybe it won't be this hard, and I'm sure there was a reason. Well, they're not crazy people around the world to sacrifice their budgets, deficits, businesses, that the state is doing something that's just a joke and fiction. So I don't believe that. Although I believe there was also a little excessive fear on the global level. To our authority, you in particular, I resent two or three things. I think it was even late with the measurements, and I've been consistent with that from the very beginning. That he then wandered with these measures, that there were irresponsible statements, the type of hundreds of thousands dead. Look out, all over the world, Mrs. Brnabic has no more than 300,000 at this time of the victim's death. That's a lot, of course, but I'm talking about the whole planet Earth. And the story was that it would be full of cemeteries and what-more Dr. Kissic said at one point that if we hadn't done something, there'd be hundreds of thousands dead. Well, there can't be hundreds of thousands of dead in Serbia, if in all the world, there are several hundred thousand victims in all of America, Italy, Spain, France. So there were exaggeration, use, conscious or unconscious, and epidemics, and fighting against it, which I commend, for political purposes. But when that's the case, then it was prudent to draw a line, give some kind of time-out, because this isn't an emergency, this basketball epidemic and my expression isn't even precise enough and happy enough, because in basketball you take a time-out, and it expires 60 seconds or 60 days and then you continue the game as if nothing happened. There was, not only an emergency, there was great fear, there were heavy stories and great excitement and public harassment, there was a serious threat or a narrowing of human rights, which, of course, goes in a state of emergency, which is why it's called an emergency. Therefore, it has already been appropriate to consider this proposal, such as my or some similar, which went in the direction of relaxing the political situation, and this is how it works, whether or not, as if you wanted to use it while the wound is hot, until people regain consciousness, until they spend or get these hundred euros against which I have nothing against, and I call on everyone to take them, so to end the elections immediately. For me, it is personally unacceptable in these circumstances to go to elections even though I intended to go to these April ones. But I don't matter, I mean for a good part of the citizens, even for a good part of your sympathisers, it's a little shocking and stressful in a situation where your doctors, our doctors, members of the Crisis Staff, say they don't know what's gonna happen in June, say you don't have to plan weddings before the second half of June, no movies, theater shows or anything like that. When members of the Crisis Staff confess, I will conclude that it is possible that one Dr. Kon, that there was already a virus among us in December, and another Dr. Nestorovic says today, is very likely that he was in January, and I think he was. But here they say later, and we talked about no cases, how safe we are, how we are some island happily isolated and proud of the results achieved. I repeat and finish, we're not the worst and that's great. We're not even the best, let's not go too far, there are countries in our environment that are by the most measured criteria, that's the degree of mortality, that's 100,000 people, that are better than we are, and we're better off than some others, and that's good. So we don't need to be overly commended, as well as having the best economic performances that our work will be the greatest, etc., they've already demonstrated it to us. I mean, this epidemic of how difficult it could have been for us to reset our relationships, social, human and political. Unfortunately, what we saw in the congregation today and in previous days on the political scene is not used for that, unfortunately to the greatest extent, reminds us of what we saw before this epidemic, even worse. If we should have already been taught this epidemic and this crisis, it's that we have to be solid, that we have to help each other within society and, of course, on the international stage, on the international stage, and we're even more bloody, we can discuss who's to blame, I think, as I said, the knife and the cakes are always in the hands of the government and the ruling coalition and parties, such as their merits the greatest and greatest responsibility. You probably won't agree with that, but I repeat, and I'm really finishing up, and now it seems to you that this is easy and elegant to solve this story, go to the polls, take the desired majority, but it remains this focal point of dissatisfaction that can grow and manifest every evening with a thump at 8.05 p.m. I support that noise, not because I think it is my support or anyone else's, but it is out of the spontaneous dissatisfaction of the citizens of Brnabic and do not underestimate that dissatisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73943	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73944	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, 50 days of hard, hard, grueling, 50 days of heroic struggle and we are in a day in which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can discuss a proposal to abolish the state of emergency. The very fact, ladies and gentlemen, that we've come to that point, that we are in such a day, but I guess everyone in this country has a clear sign of how good it is, how big a success business has been done in the meantime. The job, therefore, in the defense of the state whose survival has been compromised, is a job in the protection of all citizens of that state. Every reasonable, decent person in this country can just say -- well, it's good, yeah, it's great that today we're not in a situation that we're so angry with an epidemic that we don't know what we're going to do tonight, and what we're going to do tomorrow, but what we came up with on the other hand is to see a significant, serious difference compared to 15 March and April 1st and any date from then on and that we can say -- yes, now it makes sense that we can relax these measures, that we can even end the state of emergency. Every decent one, every reasonable one will say – that is a significant difference and we should be satisfied that we have come to this point and no one has ever said that everything is over and that nobody has ever said – we have done all the work. But that difference must be recognised by anyone in this country who wants to be realistic, serious and responsible. And whoever refuses to see clearly, and does something like politics, and wants to ask himself something, so let us ask ourselves, if he is so blind, because he has decided to be blind, if he is so blind, refuses to accept what is obvious to everyone in this country, and how he will lead anything so blind in this country tomorrow, how he will manage anything, and as a candidate for such a thing. So these are questions that everyone in this country simply has to worry about, but it doesn't have to worry that our lowest mortality is not only in this part of Europe, but it's much lower than many much larger, much richer countries. Let's not compare ourselves to the famous Italy and the famous Belgium and the famous France and the famous Spain and Great Britain, but look, just look at how they've been doing all this time, how it is today, and how it is in Serbia, so let's say one honest, honest and heart-altering belief in the work done so far, to all the citizens of this country, because this was a question concerning all of us and we all took part in it. In the first place, of course, and right are those who said that, health workers, doctors, who didn't know what day was, what night, who were tirelessly fighting on front lines and state, ladies and gentlemen, leadership, therefore, those people who made it possible for these health workers to win good, important victories in big battles, because one without another couldn't, one without the other couldn't do it and those health workers themselves, all those who had been in the country's numerous health institutions for the past 50 days, say they too. When we say waist, these people, the profession, say – we never had, absolutely never, that kind of understanding of the support by the state as we had now at this time. Well, then is it a sin to say, just because it's hard for someone to hear – we are proud of the fact that we had Alexander Vukic at the head of the state as President of the Republic, that we had the Serbian Government who showed that he was able to effectively take up the most difficult time to support those healthcare workers, to provide them with both respirators and all means of protection. So, all of their measures and recommendations to make it into regulations and decisions and to have something to fight with these 50 days. We at SNS are proud of the fact that we had such state leadership and that with this kind of success we came to today on May 5th, 6th of this year. You can't, ladies and gentlemen and the citizens of Serbia who listen to this, you just can't not look back on the lie and hypocrisy that we've had to fight constantly all this time, but constantly, literally every day all this time, because everything that's members of the former regime, above all, I mean that tycoon-ball cartel led by Dragan Gilas, his so-called alliance and other tycoons with them, so all they've been doing all this time, was just a lie, just an attack, just trying to destroy the efforts of our heroes that allowed us to have this result after 50 days and everything just hard hypocrites and literally everything. Start with that first thing we talked about today, the relationship to parliament. And what if it's not a lie and it's not hypocrisy? So they are their people's messengers to you, and you know how many they have here, it doesn't matter how they came to them, there are at the session now, because they've been saying all the time -- oh, they miss the Assembly so much that they didn't meet on March 16th, and you don't remember, for a year and a half, they couldn't remember the address where the House of the People's Assembly was located, they had no idea, and they didn't care at all, and now they remembered that they were missing the Assembly, and they would simply die, as they said, if they didn't. We told them – the second the profession says, when doctors say, they got the conditions, let's work, the Assembly is calling, we'll give you the conditions that you can all come, as no one can now in Belgium, or in Spain, or in Italy, to provide conditions, to create conditions for every MP to come here, to speak, to criticise, if criticised, we will give you these conditions. We have fulfilled the word, and we have come to discuss both the measures and the state of emergency, and they are hypocrites and liars, and there were some. Were they when we spoke at the last session here about it? No, like they're not here today. I don't count this when they come in, like this morning, this Ljotic Obradovic, that here again evil blood is spreading, that they're making incidents again, that they're trying to challenge conflicts between us again, that roses and nimble the National Assembly, behave like immatures, blowing up whistles and tearing down a state sign. And what they've ever done, except tear something down and watch them ruin it. Either to bring down RTS or to bring down the presidency building or to bring down the state and people's unity in the fight against the deadly virus or to destroy and destroy the applause of support for medical workers every night at eight o'clock or to bring down and destroy the national flag. When have they ever shown anything else that they can and are interested in? But such as to make us think that something parliamentaryism means something to them, so don't, please, lie to us, don't pretend. And everything else they've done, when they say they care a lot about the Constitution, and who cares? You who, watch out, and day and day, on this day when we talk about it ask that this constitution be broken, why, that there may be some elections when they will, they as the Constitution defend. From who? From those of us who did everything under that Constitution. Well, it won't be. From Alexander Vukic, who did everything they were never able to do, they did something in this country to defend, who always thought of themselves, so there won't be, and those theories of conspiracy that you listened to today. You know, Mrs. Brnabic, it's not this man here today who said that all this was one big lie, that the World Health Organization and multinational companies invented the virus and that there aren't hundreds of thousands of deaths, as we all know, unfortunately, there are. He is not alone in this place, nor is he any different from Gilas, nor from these courtesans, the Latvians, nor from the rest of their society. They're all the same in that. The whole country is loathed these days over the statements made by a national MP, Kostic seems to me to be, in his last name, trying to get us through the coronary vaccine to insert the chips. And now that's funny and scary to them, and that's them. Because, let me remind you, you may know, this lady came here just as an MP for this conspiracy conspiracy that came to us today, and that lady is part of Gilas's majority in Old Town, there she was in the authentic group of Gilas Bastac, probably in the Democratic Party. But it's them and there's no difference between them. And when I say hypocrisy and tell lies and their stories that they don't work, what measures don't work? Aren't the economic measures that this country has already managed to establish? Is it not right that we have paid already for 10% higher earnings to healthcare workers, the sooner the increase in this Serbia today, about which old Aleksandar Vukic, a nurse, has about 50,000 dinars of salary, and that is just how much higher than 30,000 dinars at the time of Gilas and other tycoons. What exactly is wrong with that now? A lie and hypocrisy. What if it's not a lie and if it's not hypocrisy, it's saying that it's wrong for this country to gain power, which has this kind of economic power that today can provide three minimum monthly earnings to any employee who needs it? Three profits are provided by the state to anyone who needs it. What's wrong with the fact that tomorrow, literally tomorrow, there's going to be a payoff for the first of those profits and who's going to criticise it? The hypocrites and liars are the most common ones who have never paid a single salary, one dollar, and half a million people are left on the street. They had these epidemics, so they never remembered, they didn't care. They had an economic crisis, so they never gave a single white dinar to anyone but themselves, and they didn't care. And those who speak to us today are not good for our economic measures. Oh, come on, please. And to say -- it's no good what the state has provided, which today can provide any adult in this country who wants 100 euros. Excuse me, please, and when did you give not 100 euros, but 100 dinars to anyone but yourself? Just a lie and a hypocrite. They don't need the health protection measures we've taken, they don't care what we've done with our friends from the People's Republic of China, so this tycoon Gilas has given himself this freedom to just as this conspiracy theory advocate spits, literally, our friends from the People's Republic of China, to talk about how they did all this, so he sent it to us, and he told us when he was directly involved in his media, to talk that, imagine, the Chinese are lying, he wants to hide the real number of people infected there with them, to talk about how their measurements don't work out, and how the Chinese don't know anything. Well, shame is common. And he's going to criticise something that we've managed to provide respirators he never thought of, he didn't know what they were or what they were for. And when you ask him, "I'm sorry, can you now find yourself in service of your land?" He says, "I can't, because I won't." I can't, because I won't. I might give something to Unicef, and he literally said, "I'm not giving this country anything." Well done, hypocrites the most common! Well, find yourself brave tomorrow to teach anyone in this country some lessons. You're saying something to Alexander Wolfie? Well, I really don't know what you think, who's gonna swallow something like that? And hypocrisy and again a lie when you and people like that say that something was not well related to the respect of the measures during the state of emergency. Now, the biggest problem of all problems is that you hear from certain balconies and windows in this country, and there are few of them, that people are unhappy when a tycoon like Dragan Gilas is trying to get them smart salt and sell them a slap in the pans for something that will be the best thing possible today, even if that means breaking the measures prescribed by the medics, breaking the curfew and pulverizing the disease. People say, well, listen, Gilas, by name, we know you're a thief and listen to something else, pay back the money. And he says, "Yeah, this is an attack." He says, "Yeah, the biggest problem is that I saw the torch turn on." Well, he's hypocritical again, and he's lying again. Have you hypocrites and liars bragged and boasted about the videos, the videos, where you light torches, and beat yourself into a sherpa? Now, those torches are pretty, but it's not good if someone's holding a torch says, "Gilas, you thief." There's a terrible difference between that beautiful one of yours and this other one you don't like. And you will determine who has the right to send a political message, and who doesn't, because you don't like that political message, do you? And these torches of yours that you burned here in front of this House of the People's Assembly, 20 ordered each other, were all wonderful and magnificent and those in front of the Serbian Presidency when you threatened Alexander Vukic a small million times, they were all great, but you don't like these others, because you don't like the message. What else do they say? They were worried because some people felt that they had violated the measures of banning movement, and what people? What people, hypocrites and liars are most common? If not, let's start again from you. This Bastac of yours, where this Nada Kostic, who was along with Miljus who burned books back then, remember, first came out to break the curfew, brought his men here to Dorcol to beat up the workers of the Building Directorate, and then after them and everyone else. And you yourself, Gilas, and you personally Bosko Obradovic, who here today broke the flag of the National Assembly and attacked the police, kicked a cop. And thou himself, Lot'st, and thee, Jeremiah, and all the rest of them, order them. Because they all ordered themselves here a few days ago just to show how strong and dangerous they are, that they're breaking the curfew. Then what are you talking about? Then what are you talking about and who are you making crazy here? Someone responsible for what you're in first? Just a lie and a hypocrite. And they still say, they will, you know, Alexander Vukic to introduce Caesarism, they want him to have absolute power. Aleksandar Vukic, who, Mrs Brnabic, signed the proposal with you, came here today to tell us about him to abolish the state of emergency, to abolish all the measures arising from the state of emergency, and regarding both the curfew and military engagement in the protection of human health. So, all of what we propose to these tycoons and thieves is the most terrible and repressive, we suggest, Alexander Vukic proposes to be abolished, and they say – e, no, we are against it now. They won't do it. And now he's an autocrat, he's a dictator, and they're what? I don't know. I don't know the answer, but I do know that smart is certainly and certainly not. And yet the lie and the hypocrisy again, because they talked about the election today, because they talked about the campaign today, and only they were doing it all the time, constantly and all the time, the elections. While Aleksandar Vukic said that he would not deal with the elections until the state of emergency ended, until he said, and he kept his word, he would not mention any of them's name, they would only do it every day of God, absolutely every day and just think about the campaign and just think about their attacks on power, and they would love it most without a choice and say it today, and they would love it most by setting them up to be a bit in power. It's just that it doesn't work that way. They're not good at measures, we heard just before the World Health Organization said -- they were brought in at the right time, they were brought in the best possible way to show the effect and result. And on all of that, as soon as yesterday, the CEO and WHO congratulated Serbia. And they've been doing the election again and again and again to themselves and to Alexander Wolfich. And today when a man asks them, and, well, what's wrong with getting out of a state of emergency? Well, you know what? Maybe there's one answer anyone can think of. Perhaps their biggest problem is that Alexander Vukic told them that he would not surely suit them with anything as long as the state of emergency lasted. If they hadn't been afraid of his answer because of what they think is coming soon? Now, that's what they know very well. If they're scared, they have reason to. What's this campaign gonna look like? We won't, and we said we were dealing with it at all, but the answer to that question, to be honest, depends on who you're asking. If you ask them, if you ask these gathered round the yellow tycoon Gilas Dragana, well, there'll probably be more pathetics that you and others were talking about today and you were all right. So, to lie, to whine, to ignore, to say - someone attacked my children, and now give me a three- or four-now sign that I can start crying, and no one has attacked his children. The same man, not to be afraid, to issue a warrant just a day later to his media, to issue a warrant to his journalists, to hit the most frightening again, and they have already done so a million times before on the children of Aleksandr Vukic by name and last name. His one more time, no one touched him, it's a good thing he didn't, and that's how he should stay forever. And he and his poor people, what they did just a few days ago when they sent messages to Alexander Vukic, Alexander Vukic directly, we want you to excuse us for urinating on your children's graves. It only happened a few days ago. And when they say we don't know who did it and we don't know what it was, they're some anonymous ones. Are you anonymous Daddys former members of the Greater City Municipality in your time. It's the Witch Community, isn't it? Are they anonymous to you? Are they anonymous to you that they were DS officials and whose day they are still there today to stare at your parties and your alliances? Are you anonymous those officials who say – haiku for today, it's a song, it's poetry for today. Only dead Wolfs are good Wolfs. Are those your messages? Is this evidence of what kind of campaign we should expect, so to further support them, here's someone else who's not even a little anonymous Tatjana Vojtehovski, reacts to this Dragan Gilas his address to Alexander Vukic, in whom he talks again, you're a jerk, you're sick and so on, because Vukic has no children and he can be told everything. Says this Voytehowski -- well, we should fight them. With them, with Wolf and the rest of us. Well, says Vladimir Todorovic, here's another anonymous for whom you have no idea which, if not, member of the party's presidency, Vuk Jeremic, personal lawyer Dragan Gilas and one of his closest associates. His comment on all this, therefore, on Gilas's address to Vukic, is to kill the shit and the finished thing. Kill and finish. And if you don't think it's clear who to kill, who to kill, here's your answer an hour and a half ago, to kill Wolfie. To kill Vukic, that's how they literally wrote again, their sympathies again, their members and activists. Now, that's their answer to the question of what should be expected in Serbia's political life if they ask themselves. And we, on the other hand, were only able to respond to work. We were only able to answer with concern for this country and the fact that today the state is strong enough, that it could have been a great success in overcoming this period so that it could wait for the end of this year with the best result in the economy, according to the IMF, that it could wait for the end of next year with the best result in the economy across Europe, as the IMF says. Well, it's all due to the principled attitude of Alexander Vukic and the government gathered by the SNS. We'll work. We're going to fight, we're going to try to make the result both in the fight with deadly danger and in the fight for the economy. That was always our main and most important answer. And you liars, and you hypocrites, if you knew nothing better or knew nothing better, then don't expect tomorrow that the people might value you better than this and as much as they value you. You do what you only know, leave yourselves to other people's families, leave the children of Alexander Vukic who you attacked again today, so again by name and last name, but by other people's children. Leave attacking anyone's child in this country. Don't touch other people, don't threaten their children, and we'll make sure that this good economy that we've already been told is certain for Serbia, that it will be good results for us all to be proud of. To be a good future for everyone in this country, of course, especially those whose future belongs first, and these are all children of Serbia. Everything we've done for them so far we've done. All we're going to do next will be, above all, for them, and that's what SNS is, once again, a principled attitude. It is a policy established personally by Aleksandar Vukic with his support that we continue to work together, therefore, with support and with these proposals. The SNS parliamentary group proudly ranks in the ranks of those who conduct the policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73945	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73946	Thank you, Chairman. It seems to me that it is only good in today's debate that we will ultimately decide here in Parliament to abolish the state of emergency. Parliament is, by our Constitution, a place where the state of emergency should be introduced and a place in which the state of emergency should be lifted. I, unfortunately, and I believe neither the citizens who have listened to this debate today, am not sure of the correctness of all the arguments we discussed today, nor of the introduction of the emergency situation, as it was introduced, according to us unconstitutionally, nor today to abolish. We listened to different comparisons. I'm going to name one thing for me, it seems to me the most important, not the percentage number of patients or the number of patients who are sick compared to the ones tested, because we can discuss what was the situation and by which criteria people are tested on March 15th, who are doing it today. I'll remind you of two absolute numbers. So on March 15th, when the state of emergency was introduced, 11 newly infected with the Coronar Sars virus were recorded in Serbia. Today, when we cancel, that number is 114. That's a big difference. I trust experts who say that today's situation is such that we can talk and that we should end the state of emergency in Serbia. I think it's a good idea to make that decision, because I think this state of emergency has shown how willing this authority is to abuse the state of emergency for further consolidation of its power and propaganda. I think that we should be concerned as citizens today that we do not have a report on what was done in times of emergency, nor an analysis of measures, and especially because we do not have a plan in which we will continue to fight the epidemic and in what way and whether we will be ready for the second round, which again, according to all the experts, follows us. I want to remind you that that second circle 100 years ago, when it ruled the sacred epidemic of the Spanish fever, precisely the largest number of victims, was far greater when it was that second wave. I think that we need as a state to prepare ourselves seriously, that we need to see that things don't happen again, that health institutions didn't have enough protection equipment, which we don't, not some fake journalists, that we could hear, but just people from the crisis headquarters, that experts who said there wasn't enough protective equipment for everyone at the beginning of the epidemic, as we can testify that not all of them were responsible in health institutions did their part of the job, so Coronavirus entered some health institutions, such as the clinic "The People's Front", "Dedinje", "Laza Lazarevic" or the Institute of Oncology. These things can't happen again if there's a re-enhancing epidemic. I loved and wanted to hear as a parent of school children do you think at this point that maybe the school year should start early? If we count on the virus coming back in the fall or winter, is it possible that it's appropriate, and we've been listening to it from some experts, that kids fly to school when there's less chance of contagion and transmission of the virus? Is that what you're thinking? That's how we should behave today in a situation where we haven't won the virus. Unfortunately, today, there seems to be a lot of discussion and some celebration as if we've won. At best, we ended the first half, but the virus didn't win. We should continue to act responsibly in the future. I expect it from the government, and I expect from all the citizens who, I repeat, are the greatest heroes of what we've been through in the last 50 days. Citizens with their discipline and responsibility prevented the virus from spreading massively along with those who were on the front line of the fight, such as medical workers, sales employees, municipal workers, military, police, media, all who did their job every day. Thank them again very much. I really think that what we heard today and last week, the comparison of both the declaration and the state of affairs in the state of Serbia during the emergency state of 2003 and today is inappropriate and because of the way it was a state of emergency and the reason why this emergency was introduced today and everything that was done at that time. I do not want to go into this discussion at all, I say, it is inappropriate for this Parliament, as well as inappropriate comparisons with the outbreak of 2009 and 2010, because today we can look at all the results of the epidemic from the beginning to the end. This epidemic isn't over today. Don't talk today as if we've drawn a line and we can say – look at the numbers today and 10 years ago. I don't want anything bad. I'd like no new infected if we didn't have one month, so no more deceased in the future. But we have to, that's what everyone says, to act like it's gonna happen. That's why this comparison, in my opinion, is extremely inappropriate. I'd like to hear today if it's true and what the government is doing to protect the workers who worked during this crisis, who now the employers want to deduct from their cost of protective equipment they had to use. I can't explain to you how problematic this level is and who in the state would have to react urgently to it. So, people who have been working for a minimum profit for the past 50 days, exposed their health and lives to the risk, are now being charged from minimum earnings by employers with the cost of the protective equipment they had to use. This has to be sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73947	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73948	Thank you for your patience, thank you for your debate, for your dialogue. We're bringing this session to an end. I just want to say once more in the final word to say thank you to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have complied with all the measures, thanks to why we can be here today and to discuss the abolition of the state of emergency. I want to thank all health care professionals, I want to thank everyone else, all the institutions who fought daily to keep the health system on their feet, to keep our senior citizens safe, and it seems to me, as Dr. Conn says so many times, and I like to call on our experts, it really seems to me that we can all look back on the period behind us, for these two months behind us and say that in the future of this period we won't be ashamed. I think that at all times we will be able to look at this period behind us and I think we will be able to be proud of how we fought, how brave we were, by the way in the first place in the Republic of Serbia at all times putting human life, every single human life, not politics, not decisions that are politically opportunistic or political points, even the opposite, decisions that will probably cost us political points, but we have preserved human lives. We didn't put economy or economy first at any point, we didn't put a single dinar, we didn't put a single dollar, we didn't put a single euro ahead of human lives. It was only important for us to preserve human lives in the Republic of Serbia, and we seem to have succeeded in that. All other debates and questions that I may not have been able to answer because there was not just enough time, I am here, answering them, we will continue the practice established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, full transparency, talks, dialogue, with all journalists, with all the media, in order to give citizens at all times complete accurate, timely information on each topic. I agree that at this point we can't still declare victory, but we're very close to winning. That is why the government, together with the profession, has proposed to abolish the state of emergency. What is most important to us at this point is that Serbia is working again. The most important thing for us at this point is that, with all precautions, Serbia is starting to work again, to ensure a rapid economic recovery and to ensure faster, more dynamic economic growth. Serbia is well positioned, we must take this chance, but further, this fight is only and exclusively for all of us, together and each individual individually. At a time when there are no or no such restrictive, strict restrictive measures, please, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please and once again we appeal to all of you, personal responsibility is most important. We haven't won the victory yet, we're on the best possible path, but we still have to keep fighting together. I think today is a day for Serbia to be proud of and I think today is a big, important and happy day for Serbia. Today, when we need to put an end to the state of emergency and continue to fight with personal responsibility with enough attention, with continued respect for restrictive measures, but ourselves, all of us personally, and with each day thinking about our economy, our jobs, our salaries, economic growth, economic development, how Serbia is positioned in the world, I think we should enjoy our success so far because we have come together to talk today about abolishing the state of emergency. For me, the next happiest day will be when we can raise our flags again, so that they will no longer be in the spear fields. This will mean that Serbia has won and that will mean that we no longer have daily human casualties. We're trying to keep them as low as possible, but every human sacrifice is a huge loss to us. For me, the happiest day will be when we can say that the flags are coming back. Finally, as far as the election is concerned, one way or another, these elections have to be held. I want, at least, to be responsible enough to say to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there is no controversy about this, that with these dates there is no bidding, that the mandates that we all have, and you as MPs and the mandate that I have as Prime Minister and my entire team of ministers, my cabinet, the mandates of the citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia, and that they point out that it is our obligation to return them to the citizens of Serbia. It's theirs, we have to get those mandates back to the citizens of Serbia. There's no bidding with that. These dates can't be arbitration, these dates can't depend on someone, on us individually whether they want elections sooner or want elections later. It is known when elections must be held, it is known when mandates must return to the citizens to reconsider and give these mandates to someone they say should lead this country further. In other countries, elections were held, and during the extraordinary period during the pandemic. In South Korea, France, in the state of Bavaria, Germany, in some other countries. So we have to put citizens' will first. However anyone says whether or not he's ready for the election, these are regular elections, you've had time to prepare yourself, we all have to give the mandates back to whoever gave us those mandates, which are citizens of the Republic of Serbia to decide who to give them to next. So, all in all, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs, I think we've done a good job together, I think Serbia has reason to be proud and I think that part of the credit is on a large number of Serbian citizens, above all, profession. I thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, thank you for being responsible as President of the Republic, for taking this fight as the first man of the Republic of Serbia, as the only man elected directly by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and as such is the greatest responsibility. I'm sorry, I'm truly sorry that many have used this for a political struggle, that they couldn't resist and not attack, spreading false news and direct lies during this fight, but we're going to put that aside now. This is the victory of all of us, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At this point we cannot say that it is complete, that it is complete, that we are fighting further, we are fighting together and, please, we are fighting now and for our economy, for jobs, for wages, for pensions, for the continued increase of these salaries and pensions, we are struggling for Serbia to grow stronger every day. Thank you all and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-05-06-0.u73949	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Mr. Dacic, for being with us today, for taking part in the debate and for concluding a joint single search on the proposals for acts in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 6 May 2020, starting at 20 hours and 45 minutes, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Second Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency. Please take your seats and prepare to vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 139 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work, i.e. voting. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to abolish the state of emergency, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 153 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the draft decision in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. I conclude the vote: for -155 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - two. I find that we have specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of the date of its publication. I'm putting the motion for a decision to abolish the state of emergency, in general. I conclude the vote: for -155 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - one, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision to abolish the state of emergency. I now put to the vote the draft law on the validity of the regulations, which the Government, with the signing of the President of the Republic, brought during the state of emergency and confirmed by the National Assembly, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 154 MPs, against - two, abstention - two. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting amendments to article 1 in the same text, submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put amendments to Article 2, in the same text, submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put amendments to Article 3, in the same text, submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 4, in the same text, submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic. I'm closing the vote: v-two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs, against -two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for - 153 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - two, did not vote - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the validity of the regulations, which the Government, with the signing of the President of the Republic, adopted during the state of emergency and confirmed by the National Assembly, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 154 MPs, against - four, abstention - no one. I find that the Assembly has adopted the draft law on the validity of the regulations that the Government has adopted, together with the signing of the President of the Republic, during the state of emergency and confirmed by the National Assembly. National MP Milan Lapcevic, at a session on 6 May 2020, at 14 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please identify yourself on this injury. Finalizing vote: for - two MPs. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic, at a session on 6 May 2020, at 15 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please identify yourself on this injury. Finalizing vote: for - two MPs. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency. Thank you. Dear MPs, before we begin our work, I would like to explain to you why we are 40 minutes late with the beginning of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today, the fascist attempt by MPs Dvora Bosko Obradovic and his supporters, the SZS's supporters, is in place to block the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to prevent the legal and legitimate body from doing its job. Everyone who knows the history of our world knows that these things only happened in front of parliaments when Fascism was born in Europe. Now we must all together, as many of us as we are here, resist this kind of behavior and appear like this that has never been in Serbia and our people. Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic was brutally attacked by a horde of fascists who are still in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think at our door, I apologize to Marianne, but I also have to say for the citizens of Serbia that they beat him, shot him, kicked him, hit him, hurt him, ripped his jacket. It certainly didn't happen, and the jackets can't tear up and the masks bleed when someone gives you a few words or curses, only if they brutally attack you. My question is in front of all Serbia – what can we expect further to happen? What can we expect to happen next? Today I have called on behalf of all of you who have gone to your job most normally to represent the citizens of Serbia, to enter this parliament, so the citizens of Serbia must know that you who have legally and legitimately chosen a horde of vibatins and fascists today beat and prevented them from coming here, as well as ministers who normally wanted to enter the main entrance as well as the entrance, who were insulting, attacked, etc. That's the real truth why we couldn't start today on time and talk about the important laws we agreed on the other day, all together and adopt them. So, fascism in Serbia will not be and fascists are the place in certain institutions that are designed for someone who commits these crimes. But the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be a house of democracy and parliamentaryism, not a house in which fascists will orchestrate, as we saw today at the entrance. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. I call upon you today to condemn everyone together with this phenomenon. Of course, we also expect the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to declare this and act in such cases, but, of course, I call on the leaders of the European Union to condemn such an event and to say what they have now to say about the fascist behaviour and beating up of MPs at the very door of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I call on you to take the citizens of the Republic of Serbia seriously, to be responsible for our work today, but also to condemn together what happened today. I'll be personal, if I can get the strength to do it, or I'll jump better. I'll open the session first. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by five MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 144 MPs are present in the hall and we have conditions for further work. No one has announced that he's been prevented. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need to consider proposals for acts from the proposed agenda within the deadlines to which we are bound by the laws that we adopted two days ago. The records of the tenth session of the second regular session were delivered to you, and the session of the 19th, and the twentieth, and the twenty-first, and the twenty-third extraordinary session. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the tenth session of the second regular session in 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 131 v – one, abstention – one. I find that the record has been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the 19th extraordinary session, held on 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 January this year. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – three, abstention – one. I find that the record has been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th extraordinary session in the 11th session, held on 27th, 28, 29th, 30th and 31st January and 3rd February here. Finalising vote: for – 131. I understand we've adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th Extraordinary Session, held on 3 and 4 February 2020. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – three, abstention – one. I find that the record has been adopted. I am voting on the minutes of the twenty-third extraordinary session in the 11th session, held on 12 and 13 February 2020. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – three, abstention – one. I find that the record has been adopted. We have an emergency procedure. The government has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Local Elections be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – four. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of MPs be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 v – 10, abstention – one, eight MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – three, abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The SPS parliamentary group proposed to be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision, amendments to the decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – no one, abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Selection of National MPs; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Elections; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic of Election Commission. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - 130, against - four, did not vote - 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Session, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Selection of National MPs; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Elections; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of Election Commission We move to work on the established agenda. I would like to inform you that today will be with us: Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Branko Ruzic and Health Minister Dr Zlatibor Loncar, with his associates. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157 of the Statute. Article 192(2), point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph 3. I am opening a common principled single search on the adopted agenda points. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
