ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72870	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 89 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of the Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present and that we can move on to work and debate according to the amendments. Today, we have Minister Zoran Djordjevic in front of the promoter, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You've received reports from the board of directors. I am opening a search of the draft law in particular, pursuant to Article 157(3). At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72871	Mrs. Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we believe that this law is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the prosecution, first of all, is the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, and then the senior prosecutor's office in Serbia, should have started the job in determining the abducted babies, perhaps even more precisely than the missing, from their parents, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was formed in 2005, and the SRS had its representative on that committee, so, in January 2006, the Survey Committee submitted a report to the Assembly. In the paper of the Survey Committee, it was unequivocally found that the prosecution, in co-operation with police administrations across Serbia, covered up the abduction of babies from their parents and it was obvious, and here it has been almost two decades since the Assembly had to and gave that initiative to the then government, international trafficking to newborn children. What now characterizes this situation is that you reacted because your mentors from the EU asked you to do so, only because in 2013 a verdict was reached, where a mother, Zorica Jovanovic, herself, chose to determine that her child had been kidnapped, or disappeared in the European Court of Human Rights. At this point, Mr. Minister, as members of the government's commission say, quite frankly, such as Mr. Radisa Pavlovic, the biggest obstruction, in order to start, as it says, from a dead end, is done by no one but Deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor Jasmina Kiurski, if that is correct as she is called, Kiurski. Zagorka Dolovac is gone. She never answers. These dosmanias go in with a motor saw in RTS, poles in the National Assembly, when other things happen, which are important for the state and the people, when citizens are rightfully intimidated and upset, and imagine how the parents of these kidnapped, missing babies, when they know that in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office the deputy prosecutor is doing what he wants, violates their rights, even though the commission, past the rules of procedure, puts the prosecution's seal on the commission's work record. So, Mr. Minister, this will stay this way as long as the prosecutors are. Later on, according to the amendments, especially in cities, I'm going to tell you about the frantic cases where the police and the prosecution have not responded in addition to the obvious evidence that the children were abducted, or disappeared from their parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72872	Thank you. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was tabled by Parliament member Gorica Gajic and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72873	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Assembly is under the pressure of the SRS arguments that what you are trying to present as some law that will help someone to find their kidnapped and sold child did something that is indeed a scandal over scandals. Yesterday, the government of the Republic of Serbia in some late afternoons organised some meeting they attended, now you will hear, some initiative for economic and social rights. No one alive knows what they do, who they are. Apparently, they deal with marginalised and discriminated groups with special focus on social and economic rights. This lady, who now stands up and keeps the president from hearing, so much right to herself, that's Mrs Tatjana Macura, who's been a forwarder since she agreed to go to the elections, she's founded an organization that was also present at the meeting last night. It's a Belgrade group of missing babies' parents. The meeting was attended by a foundation whose President Milan Antonijevic, Sorosevic, formerly deputy deputy Natasa Kandic at its foundation. What did they do? Imagine, they've formed a commission, and that commission will be mixed. Yes, and Tatjan Macura attended that meeting. Of the 250 MPs, the government has pointed right at Tatjan Macura to attend the meeting. In return, Tatiana Macura withdrew her amendments. Here, we just received information from the MP's group. This is really a scandal over scandals. Tatiana Macura is fighting stolen babies, a woman who's also a thief. She stole the mandate. You know, someone's stealing babies, some mandate, what's next to who's hand. And she has the credibility to be some kind of character who will manage the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the entire National Assembly, just because you're preparing her to go to the polls, and I remind you that Tatjana Macura and these apostates who kidnapped the mandates here in the Assembly say that genocide took place in Srebrenica. Is that your representative part of the National Assembly? You should all be ashamed of this law, and of the entire government and of every MP who votes for this disgrace. This is a big con. First, let me tell you, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic sat here, to remind the public, first of all. That government commission exists now. We asked this government commission to tell us what she did. But in that commission, on behalf of the parents, Mr. Pavlovic from Kragujevac, who obviously bothers you because he is very present in the media and in the media is telling the truth and has a lot of material and a lot of evidence about the kidnapped babies. You don't care about that. You're interested in the election campaign, among other things, to say that you've solved the problem of kidnapped babies. Well, this Tatjana Macura who participated in the government yesterday, in all of this, in this joke, she cried here, because God, you're selling kids for 10,000 euros. Well, children remain to be sold for 10,000 euros legally under this bill. The scandal you've made with this law since the beginning, and the scandal over scandals is what the government did yesterday. And may it serve you the honor to have fallen so low that because of the election campaign you play so roughly with people's lives, the fates of families, the fates of people who may have been kidnapped or not. Anyone who votes for this vote should cover himself with ears and not go out in front of any voter, not one man in the Republic of Serbia. Bruca and shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72874	Here you go. The word has the People's MP Tatjana Macura, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72875	Thank you, Chairman. I was expecting attacks like this. At the very least, and the least I expected from Mrs. Radete are these curses sent to the MPs and the entire public who got involved in solving missing babies' problems. I won't comment on what the lady's instructions are in her presentation. This is the least said at the level of each zone of twilight and anyone who abuses this topic for personal dealings with MPs and with the public and associations of parents of missing babies should be absolutely ashamed. So once again, I appeal to all the MPs, including those who have left their amendments, to listen well to what exactly were the demands of parents who protested here for several days in front of the Assembly, in which sense they asked for this law to be modified. By bringing a whole section into this law, we have practically obtained the certainty that most parents will be involved in the process of investigating their missing children. I will not report on any other allegations during today's debate. I will only report on the amendments that were the subject of dialogue between the Belgrade group of parents yesterday, which I did not set up purely for the lady to be in progress, because she has certainly existed for 19 years, and I have had my mandate since 2016. Then there were relevant government organisations dealing with the issue of human rights, representatives of different ministries and, of course, the Prime Minister who has the mandate to resolve this issue within a short period of time than we are allowed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72876	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72877	Mrs. Macura has the party's mandate. She's had enough since 2016, and she stole that mandate along with several other MPs. It's not a curse, and it's not a slander that Mrs. Macura is the thief of the mandate, we compare her to the baby thief. There is no greater crime in political life and there is no greater corruption, and there is no more immoral thing than stealing a mandate, and I think everyone should understand that. Even those who stole the mandates realized one day how wrong it was. Here is the second question – how is Tatjana Macura pulled out of her hat to make her the most interested, to be the one whose opinion is relevant to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What is he doing in this group with Vlada Milan Antonijevic, a sorosevac, a follower of Natasa Kandic, a foreign mercenary, a traitor? Is there anyone else to think about this Milan Antonievich? I'm surprised you didn't invite that initiative, too, that they didn't invite that initiative for young people, as they are called, to be organised by the Mirdita festival in Belgrade. You're making a joke out of serious things, and now as Tatiana Macura is going to insult me to mention that I've just said the curses. No, I told the whole truth. I've told the whole truth, and that truth tells us that you are all using this law to please your mentors from the European Union, using every means possible, even if it is Tatjana Macura. We'll talk about her especially when we talk about the fourth point of the next session.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72878	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72879	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have told you in principle that this proposal represents the legalisation of child trafficking and that such a bill will not shed light on the truth about babies that have disappeared from our maternity homes and we believe that this law, or the proposal, should be withdrawn from the procedure. The lack of adequate mechanisms to conduct an investigation leaves parents alone to carry out investigations and to find ways to get to the truth and determine the facts about their children taken from them, or stolen from the maternity home. The state didn't engage enough or devote itself to this problem, even if the judges involved in missing babies' cases were distracted by investigations. I'm going to remind you of the case of a Nis investigative judge who was investigating and trying to get the truth about missing babies, and in the course of his work, this judge has found a series of inconsistencies, ils and frauds that pointed out and proved that live births were declared dead born and most likely sold. In an interview, the judge said that the case of missing babies looked like an octopus and that it was a serious crime that took place for more than 20 years, that many, from state authorities to politicians, were involved. Then, he says, that's why I've been branded by various executives and state authorities, saying I'm corrupt just to be disrespected, there's been honest judges, we've been struggling to prove, we've been together in that fight against some other judges who worked for criminals. He also stressed that after that they made an illegal decision to suspend the investigation by the court and cited an example of the abduction of a nurse from Nis, who she said worked here for years, knew what was going on and eventually became a victim herself. This is about organized crime and, unfortunately, we will not do anything with this proposal to find out the real truth, and once again we stress that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, that this is just a farce and that it is only in the framework of an election campaign, in order to talk about how you solved the problem of missing babies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72880	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72881	By its amendment to Article 1. The bill proposed that the word "natives" be replaced by the word "health institution". It is a matter of a little technical improvement in the text that you would do well to accept, but which essentially does not change the fact that this bill is bad. In fact, when you pass laws that do not apply to the well-being and order of society in general, but to solving the problem of a specific part of the population, then it would be good to consult representatives of the target group whose problem is being solved when creating a legal solution. In this case, unfortunately, this has not been done, and instead of talking to the right parents, you have spoken to politicians who are being led by certain organisations in order to fictitiously fake a consensus, and they charge their services well. Parents expected this bill to enable and define precise mechanisms for conducting investigations, i.e. for accessing hospital documentation, documentation by local self-government and cemetery, as well as the possibility of creating a unique DNA database in which they could leave their data, both parents and persons suspected of missing children and all other interested persons. Just because the bill provides for the possibility of collecting damages, courts have been left with the possibility of avoiding complicated and outdated investigations. We believe that this solution is monstrous, without discussing the amount of compensation planned, because the only thing parents want is the possibility to connect with their children, and you did not leave them with this bill, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72882	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and MP Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic and MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are once again witnessing how the ruling majority humiliates the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and, you know, a while ago, they attacked Mrs Malusic when she said that laws were not passed in the Assembly, but that they were just voting there. Now it is fundamentally evident that she was right and that what we discussed has nothing to do with what is finally, to say, eventually the Assembly will plead. We discussed a draft law in principle, we showed you many illogicalities, we pointed out that there is no special body in line with the International Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg. When we pointed out everything that you didn't do well, you said that we were criticizing because we're the opposition, because we're malignancies, that this proposal is the best possible thing right now, etc. Very soon, not 48 hours later, it turned out that once again we were right that the law was really bad, that the law would not solve the problems that need to be solved, and you resorted to something that I don't even know what to call it, because until today we didn't have such examples in the peach. Instead of discussing these amendments here, instead of talking about it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have, by what principle, brought some NGOs, the Natasa Kandic Humanitarian Law Fund, brought Tatjana Macuru, Ana Brnabic and one selected group of parents, I do not know on what principle you have chosen this very association, and you are fundamentally changing the law. If the law fundamentally changes, then the minimum of decency requires you to withdraw the existing, resubmit the newer procedure and start again from the principled debate, that we may have an opportunity to change the amendments to affect those solutions that you suggested overnight, and literally that was overnight. It would be good if the proposer and all those who defended the law by yesterday and claimed that it was ideal, how better he couldn't, would now explain to us what these reasons were which at this point, and in this scandalous way, this is how the law changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72884	Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72885	Since the SNS and the ruling coalition, because they are the creators of the sky and the country, because they stop and let rain, because they can cause the solar eclipse, the eclipse of the moon and everything else and their doctors and science have introduced a new system of values in this country and this new system of values in this country needs special analysis, especially world experts should put this system of values into serious consideration. In this system of values for these four years since we've been in this session, you've done a lot of good things for the country of Serbia, both collectively and for each citizen individually. So you've made the minimum work on the law and made it the maximum labour price, so you've set the job price in the EPS, so you've turned debt seekers into perpetrators, so you've made individuals the richest individuals who can walk through poverty, so you've abolized all those who truly need to be responsible for the theft and destruction of this country, they've now turned your advisors to you, so you've turned your fighters into socialists, because the welfare is slightly bigger than 7,000 dinars, and you've given the fighters 7,000 dinars, so you've turned our workers into emigrants, so you've turned our budgets that are filled with taxpayers, and you've given them to foreigners, and you call it foreign direct investment. So you've done something that's nowhere in the world and what needs to be seriously analyzed and, I say, the world's experts are seriously considering this. What's blackest is, since you haven't had where to copy from, you've copied all this from the EU, and this is the price of the European path all these laws that I've now listed, and the SRS has been talking about these laws not to touch the public in the right sense, that they're doing great harm to the citizens, and that's not worth telling you, you've gone one step further and you've finally set the price for a newborn child in Serbia. So, the price of a newborn child from 1970 to 2013, you've also given that stupefying obvious, 1,000 to 10,000 euros depending on mental pain, if we're going to determine now the price of mental pain, the one who's deprived of family life. Since you have destroyed family life with all these laws that I have now listed, you owe it to all citizens who are not members of your regime not only 10,000 euros but much more for the mental pain of living in Serbia, because real life in Serbia hurts, and this law to withdraw from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72886	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed to add the name of members and members of 4a after Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72887	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Amendment of the SRS to Article 5. The bill to determine the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, in which I sought to delete the said member, because I believe the amendment draws attention to the proposal, and later when it is adopted, and the law will not solve the problems that have been present in the public for decades. In fact, this law treats problems that have been happening since the SFRY, decades ago, this problem is not new, nor has it been treated or processed by the state. It finally started off as a dead end, but that means a little bit unless all of those factors that are inescapable to solve this problem are involved. We've seen a large number of parent associations that have lost their children in one way or another, and they're solid and complicated by the same torture and pain, each one has a story for himself, which absolutely suits the state. I'll use some statistical data to explain this problem more plasticly. The Republic Statistics Institute from 1960 to 1990 totalled four million 660 thousand 714 children were born to 22,000 792, and as many as 228,000 six children died within a year. The worst was in 1961 when as many as 80 dead babies were recorded on thousands of born. To return to Serbia for a little while, in 2001 mortality was 30 babies per thousand born, after which it fell to six babies. This data suggests that in the mass and in these unrepentant acts of counterfeiting of the deceased, human hospitals, doctors, chief nurses, and parent services were involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72888	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment, with a correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there is a law that goes so far into a social problem, then it is certainly today's proposal for a law on determining the status of newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. As you can see from this globular title, there is a difficult, painful and globious problem that this law needs to solve and I must say right away that it will not happen. In fact, for decades this law was pending, and much water passed Savam and Danube. Can you just imagine these parents who have been fighting a battle for decades and have hope that they will finally find their children, now grown men with a forced identity. In the crowd of banners that I am with parents who are looking for their children, one of them has earned my attention – research, not pay. Which clearly tells how much these people care about just finding out the truth about their children. Personally, I don't think there's any normal man who doesn't feel the pain of these people. We've also heard here in the principle debate a lot of emotional outflows, whoever and with any motive participated in the theft of children, I'm not going to say what he deserves. I said in the beginning that this wasn't a problem since yesterday, this was happening during the SFRY decades ago. So it's hard, which is more impossible to determine the true truth and motives. The fact that the law waited for two years in the National Assembly means that it was waiting for a favourable timing, which is the election to be held in April 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72890	The 7th Amendment was submitted by Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Would you like a word? (No) Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72891	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have just arrived before us, the amendments proposed by the Serbian government, and that would be a complete confusion, when it comes to this topic and when it comes to this area, the government has made its biggest contribution. The government is adopting amendments to form a commission in consultations with NGOs. If they count how many commissions are formed by parliament, the government, there are almost few who would say the exact number. We've pointed out here several times, a commission that's been formed, the head of which was Dr. Wild-Dairy Dacin's collection of all relevant data. That was 2006. That data is literally missing from the public, I hope there's still some clues. Every case has been processed. It is a woman who, unfortunately, worked studioly on it together with the late Dr Nedeljkovic, and we have told you here and in principle debate that a commission should be formed. A commission that will also professionally process this, and a commission that will listen and process any case if it can do so at all and if it is appropriate to say that these are the cases. These are fates. This is something that happened in the earlier period, and we don't see why this composition of the government or this composition of parliament would run away from being studioed into this, by forming a commission. However, the government, in order to overcome all these problems that have arisen in the public meantime, especially this compensation provided for parents whose children have disappeared, cannot be determined, the government has found an on-call interim solution and this solution may essentially not be bad, but the suspicion has made us radical, so NGOs are involved. What kind of state is this? What kind of government is this? What kind of executive power is that when you're all assigned by NGOs? NATE, an NGO, some phantom association, is proposing laws. To you associations that do not have representativeness are proposing amendments. Well, people, if you're aware that the mandates will pass, everything will pass, there will be traces left, traces remain as part of the shame of the burden you will bear. You didn't think for yourself, what the people would say, but NGOs served you some solutions. You are completely under the influence of these NGOs and of some forums and courts of the European Union. At the end of the day, this law came through, and you admitted it, from one European Court of Human Rights verdict. Is that supposed to be a verdict in that court, so you can come up with the idea that the law might define it? You really can't believe this stubbornness when it comes to SRS proposals. It's not about political upgrades, it's about trying to solve problems and the fate of many families. A large number of these cases are in the psyche of people who had a baby at one point, this baby is missing, it's not explained to them how and how it disappeared, whether it's buried, whether it's dead or sold, what there are real doubts, and then you're on your nose, just to bring something like you're involved in these European flows or to be good with certain NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72892	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72893	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. A bill laying down facts about the status of newborn children, suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. I requested an amendment to delete that member of the law. This problem isn't since yesterday, and it's been going through for decades. Because of what was happening in this area, no one blames the current authorities, however, as if this government has an irresistible need to solve something that no one has solved so far. I don't see anything wrong with that, but you just have to know that there are things that have been delayed. I believe that this authority should only take care that such cases do not occur in its term of office, and what was 30, 40 years ago, it is now impossible to determine. Now, it seems to me again that it's just a marketing trick ahead of the election campaign. It's ugly for someone who has lost a newborn child in this way to give false hope that things will work out. That's why I think these things have to be handled very carefully so the law doesn't do any more harm than good. This law is bad and needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. That's the SRS' position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72894	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72895	We certainly cannot accept the amendment of MP Filip Stojanovic, who seeks to delete Article 9 or the principle of confidentiality. I think the procedure is really about such a sensitive question which means that some broader public should be excluded in such a procedure. Short to answer only on behalf of the SNS, to something he's doing here. First, to pass the law quickly, which is the date on which the proposal for a law from the Serbian government itself is immediately denied. Somewhere for two years, this bill of law has been in the process. Indeed, there was plenty of time to do everything possible to improve this law and to be acceptable to all interested parties in this process. We cannot say that there is only one party interested in this process, but for that it is certain that the interest in resolving such a difficult issue is also the state of Serbia. These cases date back to the 1970s, the 1980s, the 1990s, and yet they can't be said that this is something new for our society, if we see that these riots occur in hospitals in Yugoslavia during the Tito regime, and then no one has been able to solve this difficult problem, so neither is the period of rule of Slobodan Milosevic, so neither is Kostunica's government, etc. To remind you, of course, that the state has continuity and no matter who's responsible for what's going on, accounts are being made to those who are now at the hands of the Serbian citizens and it is normal for the government to do everything, regardless of who's headed this government, to solve a problem that's not easy at all, and it's not as simple as the problem of the missing babies we're talking about right now. I must say, this Parliament, not this assembly, but this Parliament had a committee of inquiry. The other day we heard that we had to start a new survey committee, today we heard that survey committees don't solve everything. Come on, think of what you really want. You want a new survey committee, or you don't want a new survey board. Of course, the government will have a commission at that level, but I say, we need to understand that the government and parliament are not the same and that we have rights if we want to create another commission of survey, it's no problem for a new council, if they think the same way as a few of us think. Is that necessary? I don't know. It's no secret, and they're not the results of that 2006 survey committee led by Dr. Dacin. I don't know which political party it belonged to, but Zivodarka Dacin and her colleagues, I see that one of the MPs from the Serbian Radical Party occasionally participated, because I read the report. I never talk about anything when I answer here, I read it. A member of parliament participated in the polling committee occasionally, and there he is from the current and now calling, and he was also in 2006, but it doesn't matter. I want to say what's the point, it's not who took part, who didn't participate and who signed it, who didn't sign the report, that it was a public document. How I got it, if you work hard, anyone can get it, take it, read it, and I recommend it to that new commission that will be established at the government level to take into account the results of this polling committee. And to all interested, here is the public, the number of this document, the Report of the Survey Committee to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, a period of the 1970s, 01 No: 02-445/05, and the report on 27 February 2006. No secret, large report, nothing here, I'm guessing it's not gone. You can read it from this and use it. There are numerous testimonies. A good starting point, but, as you can see, it's such a complicated and difficult matter that from the 1970s to 2020, no major shifts were made from Tito to today. There is a verdict by the Court of Human Rights, referring to the Zorica Jovanovic case and thus made a precedent. So, something that binds us now, it's not all this matter of the bill's proposal, but it obliges us to pass the law and act on the Court of Human Rights' judgment. If we want the rule of law, we have to respect the judgments of the courts. We have to respect, it says 10,000, 10,000 has been introduced into this bill. That doesn't mean someone has to take that and take the money. It's just something that's been ruled in the Zorica Jovanovic case and it's made a precedent that the court considers, and we're a serious state and we're both good and bad judgments, and we agree and disagree, we have to carry out the judgments brought by the courts, and they refer to the Republic of Serbia. How do we carry out various arbitrations that are not at all favourable to Serbia? Whether it is our fault, by the guilt of some ministers in the past, what agreements and contracts have been signed, all this is now at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. You have seen that there are serious items in the budget relating to payments, damages to lost disputes. There was a discussion when we adopted the court, why those items were so big. Well, the state has to pay for someone's big mistakes in the past. So it's very important that we say that this law wasn't passed in a hurry, and what you're going to do more slowly than two years ago, that these aren't, because of the public speaking, these are not some cases where yesterday, the day before, two years ago, five years ago, something so terrible happened to us, but that these are cases from the '70s, the '80s, and there's probably some 90s. I can't argue that such a phenomenon doesn't happen anywhere today. We don't have a verdict, we don't have any proof of anything. Don't let us all comment on something in the papers or on someone's claims. Come on, I'm still doing legal work, I've got to draw a little line and say let's do something to prove it. That's why all the papers should be used, I'm saying, I've done everything I can to print them out. Who's interested in copying, can do it on his own and start something if it's claimed that this is a report that will help us discover everything, but I don't believe it since 2006, then no one wanted to follow the 2006 report. Who was headed by the government in 2006? Who led the police in 2006? Who was the head of the Justice Department in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and didn't want to do it? Who? Officers? Please don't ask the officers for anything, but the other officers are in our country uncut, and we're changing. So responsibility would have to be accepted by politicians back then if they hadn't done anything. Now, there's someone out there who wants to swallow every horrible frog in order to do something to really do something. The Committee of Auditors had 24 cases of parents back then, and that's what they did. Now maybe we'll see. But, I say, I must say, with all due respect to Minister Dragan Jocic, as good interior minister, he did not want to answer any calls from that polling committee, not one single call. So we had one link in the chain that was very important that didn't want to be involved. The parents raised their doubts, there's a certain medical file and there's a huge gap, half of it gone. They even went to funeral facilities to try something on the survey board to establish. The motherbooks are also guided by how they were led at that time and they went into adoption procedures, and I think it's one of the most difficult procedures, because there are some things that rule out a wider public to protect children and families who have adopted children. Did they adopt those children? It's for us strangers. Let's not be gossipers some of us who just talk about what we saw in the papers and in the movies, but let's stick to the facts, the data that he has. I say most of the disputed cases under this report date from Tito to the beginning of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic in 1990. It's about children who died in maternity homes and no detailed explanation of the cause of death exists. That's what's been determined, and nothing's been ruled on. There's a suggestion here to remove the obsolescence institute. It's important in this case. Why would anyone be afraid of it, just to be careful that the removal of an obsolescence institute does not endanger the legal order of a country, so that in the future when we have some new dilemmas, some new problems, it does not always allow something retroactive to be solved. In this case, okay, because, indeed, it's impossible to get an out-of-date search for kids who are missing. It was done on behalf of families who are looking for their missing children, but also on behalf of those who have doubts about whose children they are. Only in that sense. It is recommended that this report be brought in a Lex specialis. Since 2006, no one's thought to bring a Lex special. I tell you, in 2006, let's see. I listened to a press conference from respected MPs who were in power at the time, and there I have to apostrophe a letter to Alexander Jerkov, I don't mean anything by it, though, but that the ease of which one takes note of the great problems that must be solved by this set of powers often amazes me. In 2006, her parents were in power, so she didn't hold a press conference and bring out some lex specialis that would adopt, I don't know, Kostunica and Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic and all those whose ideas she swears today. Even Nenad Canak to whom she belonged, and I don't know who she is. Why not? She's now standing by to hold press conferences and read us lessons about how to do something and how to do it, then she doesn't come here in the O.R., she doesn't put in any amendments and she doesn't help us. There are some topics that are more important than politics, and the topic of missing babies is more important than politics. That's where we're all supposed to work on it together. You're together. Here, I'm glad that some amendments to the opposition have been adopted, that amendments to the opposition SRS have been adopted. Something's changing in this House, and that's good. But I don't respect it, I really don't respect it when someone reads me lessons from the hall, like Alexander Jerkov's MP, and she didn't read this report. I'm sorry she's not here to ask her what she personally did to bring a Lex specialise during the power of the DS to which she belongs, soul and body and head? What she did at the time when hers ruled, because this problem has not arisen since 2012 by coming to the power of SNS and President Alexander Vukic. But we'll take him one step at a time. And this is the first step and that's how it should be understood. Thank you to all MPs who have seriously participated, who have submitted amendments, and we have come to some solution that will satisfy all the involved parties in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72896	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72897	It's the SRS. Members of our party on the Committee of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72898	What does that have to do with a replica? Are you saying you didn't participate in the Bureau's work? No, it's the amendment. [[Do I have the right to replica?]] (The Faith of Radet: All right, then return to zero, zero.) Here, we won't count those 20 seconds. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72899	Well, I don't know how you're trying to ban us from speaking and saying, if the party is mentioned, that the MP has no right to replicate as deputy president of the parliamentary group, but well, you're introducing various rules, so it's no wonder. Let's get rid of a few things first. There's been a speech here about what's the point of going back to that survey committee report that seems to have been wrong. The point is that this Committee of Auditors has found that more than 750 criminal charges have been filed. More than half the criminal charges have been dropped due to obsolescence. If you really wanted this procedure to end in accordance with the law, then you would qualify this in the only possible way and then there would be no obsolescence, because this is international human trafficking. This is seriously involved with foreign intelligence. This is also evidence that the opinion of Sorose's Open Law Foundation and Milan Antonijevic prevailed in the government last night. I should remind Milan Antonijevic was very happy and recently announced that he personally participated in the draft law on the basis of which Kostunica freed Cypriot terrorists including Albin Kurti. In a few years, he will also boast that he participated in the adoption of this law, which can freely be called a law on the cover-up of shorter babies. We're asking, where does it say where you changed the law, which you changed, where it says that in these cases there was no obsolescence. What someone says, we can't let obsolescence happen here, it doesn't mean anything. That's what it has to say. We tell you how. It's an international baby trade. International human trafficking. You try to cover it up and then you say, you don't pass the law quickly, because he's standing in a drawer, now Arsic will say, not in a drawer, but hung on by an officer, that he's standing for two years. Well, it can stand for seven years, but you're bringing it in at the last second you had to bring it in. How do you justify that Tatjana Macura you are now forcing is even officially calling her Tanja, saying as MPs, that she was pulled out of her hat to be someone who in the government of the Republic of Serbia yesterday formed some new amendments. What made her, what motivated her to break up here crying and say, children should not be allowed to be sold for 10,000 euros and asked for all members to be deleted, to withdraw those amendments today. Well, do you think we're naive? What you're doing doesn't solve the problem. This legalizes baby theft. This covers up baby theft, which is the most important thing. There's a commission. We asked Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic what the commission did, because he is also a member of the commission. What you did with Jasmine Kiurski, who is a member of that committee, who is a deputy public prosecutor, who has changed the rules of that commission in her own hands, and that regulation prohibits individuals, including parents who have been found to suspect babies, from being able to participate in the work on their own, or that they can take certain actions on their own. It ended when this Radisa Pavlovic went and found thirty-one dead babies in the fridge in Kraljev, where some names exist. They don't allow DNA analysis to be performed. It is known in Germany how many there are, that there are the most children stolen from Serbia in Germany and sold there. They don't allow DNA analysis to be done there. The guy himself wants to, insists on doing a DNA analysis, accepts, makes it clear he's not a parent's child living in Germany, but not that, intelligence doesn't give. Serbia remains unfortunately a legal place to sell through that law of the family, where you allow the alleged adoption of children, especially in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72900	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ljubenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72901	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group submitted this amendment to the draft law establishing the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia and we have proposed amending Article 9. Article 9 refers to the principle of confidentiality and in its position of 4 it is defined that the procedure, which determines the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, applies the rules governing the protection of personal data, the confidentiality of data, if this law is not otherwise specified. We have proposed our amendment to Amendment 4 and our proposal is to post a "data secrecy" point after which the rest of the text is deleted. So, the essence of our amendment is that matter in this law must be regulated in accordance with the basic Personal Data Protection Act. The SRS parliamentary group believes that the people to whom this bill applies suffered too much from the moment of birth and the disappearance of children until today. We also feel that they were not protected in their struggle to prove the truth. For such sensitive and painful matter is not the solution to the law that will offer a certain amount of cash compensation, the solution for all unhappy families is to prove the truth and that the culprits are responding, those who are still alive. The solution is that these things never happen again to any family. The solution is to get answers to the question – who has supported doctors and medical technicians all these years, in their monstrous actions? Are their accomplices at the social work centres and the police? The disappearances could not only be carried out by doctors and medical technicians, so these questions are imposed, so it is necessary that the application of this law be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72902	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72903	By amendment, just for a little while. I've listened to these amendment fellow MPs, my colleagues from the SRS and I can't really, of course, at least, with this particular one, before that I can't say that there's not enough, for me, convincing reasons, arguments and fears or doubts, let's call it whatever we want, about what's going on, but there's a lot of, unfortunately, or examples or indications that many terrible and ugly things have happened. No one here is transferring, or I don't think anyone has any intention of transferring to the current government now that she's guilty, of course, of course, of the previous ones, but there's been a lot of terrible and ugly things going on. Maybe not as massive and, hopefully, not as massive as sometimes you get the impression, but certainly more than enough to be very shocked and worried and bitter as individuals and as a society. That's why I understand this elevated temperature, about the passing of this law. So, any doubt and fear that its passing, which I support, in principle and in principle, helps to cover up cases or that some of these criminals are the most serious criminals. I consider it one of the most serious crimes in certain situations that, I say, there are doubts that they really happened, so they're going to get away and be amnested and pushed under the carpet. Then that's what bothers me more, I see it that way, colleagues who are having problems dealing with the solutions of this law. So I'm not saying it's going to work, but you just need to understand that completely understandable and human and whatever you want to make sure that doesn't happen. That's why I said my position would be a decisive opinion of the parenting community. We saw that some had reserves, some had accepted the first draft solution, some of those associations, now another important and important association, as I understand it, supported these supplementary amendments. So, let me say, one step further in the right direction. The thing is sensitive, delicate, it's not, I say, political or daily political, it can't be, I don't think it's someone who's branding it now and has the intention of accusing anyone that I speak out of power, or they, I don't know, in 2006, or this one now, of covering up the matter, but that the consequence was cover-up, an objective consequence. If that happened, it's a fact and unfortunately no one, and you follow me if I'm wrong, no one, by letters, has ever been responsible for cases like it was and that are certainly terrifying. So it's only important to me that this law, it can't guarantee that these cases will be solved, but it's important for me not to at least close the door, that these cases be solved in the future, and you never know. Here, after a few decades, it seems now that the murder is finally resolved, the case of the murder of former Swedish Prime Minister Palme, as we can see. So maybe one of these cases, maybe before the end of his life, will talk before he dies, work his conscience, talk to a guard, a porter, an obstetrician, a midwife, a doctor. Anything can happen. Therefore, it is only important that the solutions of this law do not prevent or close the possibility of the truth coming to an end without guaranteeing that truth is already quite clear. So, I support this amendment, and at the same time, I say, I also commend these efforts that have been made to find a last-minute solution for parents as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72904	The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72905	So we had one discussion in principle, where I think the conclusion, the general conclusion was that this power was the first to gain courage, strength, and was determined to solve this decades-old problem. On the other hand, it was also mentioned in the discussion that some associations are for the proposed law, some associations are not. We now have the situation that these amendments, practically most associations or virtually all associations are for the proposed law, because the amendments also propose the formation of a commission that will also be drawn up by parents who will have a majority, so nine members and by representatives of the government, who will have six members. So the essential question here is now being asked, about the discussions I'm listening to, whose interest is now being protected. If parents for this law, if parents who suspect their children have disappeared, have accepted that these amendments correct the law and practically complete this legal solution, whose interests are now anyone protecting? So, I think the government of the Republic of Serbia, in this case Prime Minister Brnabic, has done one really great thing, one step in terms of getting to the truth, which was certainly a proposal for this law, which was only the first step in the legal procedure. On the other hand, we will have this legislative act tomorrow and on the basis of the Commission's overall work, which will be formed, I am now talking about a new amendment, which will have the obligation to collect relevant evidence and to further supply the judiciary, i.e. the judges, in court proceedings, with certain information, we will have a completely rounded solution. The essential thing is, therefore, that in this way this government solves all the problems that have accumulated for decades. In this case, so are these problems, which are the most sensitive and painful, so problems, missing children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72906	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72907	I thank you, Chairman. Given that we have been very useful on the Committee on Justice, as well as on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, we have assessed the amendments and these committee amendments as being very useful, and therefore they are qualitatively improving the law we are discussing, it is doubtless that we are finally getting one text of the bill that will satisfy all interests in full capacity, particularly the interests of those concerned. So, all the interventions that have been done by parents so far, all the interventions that have gone in the direction of certain corrections to bring the law closer to the needs of parents who literally investigate everything that is related to, as we say, missing babies on the one hand, and on the other hand, to examine the circumstances that have affected these unpleasant events, we now have contained in the amendments that we are discussing and which I am sure should be adopted. What is very important to point out that today's criticisms, even these amendments and the proposed text of the law, certainly have no basis for more populist character and aim only at one kind of political marketing, which is legitimately right. We socialists and I have absolutely nothing against it. Of course, on the other hand, what is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the fact that we now have one complete but virtually comprehensive, normised and very well-defined bill, where legislation is given for the initiation of the procedure and for those who have not so far had it, and these are persons who doubt their origins. So far, in the bill of law, the proposing's legitimacy has not been normative. Now the promoter has accepted it, which is very good. The citizen's protector also has the same ID, the legitimacy of the proponents to initiate the procedure. I personally believe, given the competences and the Protector of citizens, that this bill should also be supported in this direction. As for the new facts and new circumstances that should be the reason for the initiation of the procedure, after a legally strong solution which has been found not to be able to determine the status of the missing child, I think it has already been standardised and defined by other laws. In particular, the Law on Prosecution, lawyers know this, know a legal institute, it's called the "benefium Novrum" or new facts and new circumstances, which, if they appear, are both the reason and the condition to restart the procedure, i.e. everything that could not be determined in the previous procedure is now done, which is very good. However, what may have to be legally characterized and, as a matter of fact, it has already been contained in other laws, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, because the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which is complemented by this law when it comes to procedures. However, it is not important in any case to burden this bill as well. I personally think that such a norm can be accepted, even though the Law on Prosecution has already dealt with the situation. Finally, when it comes to the obligations of the courts, to provide data to a commission that will be able to be formed under the draft law that we are discussing today, I think it should be cautious in some later, possibly, circumstances that occur in the practical application of this law, to make sure that this is in no way reflected in courts, as some kind of pressure on the court, because courts are generally not obliged to provide any information to anyone other than what is defined by the provisions of the Data Protection Act or access to data, which is decided by the trustee. So, in this area when it comes to the Commission's relationship with the judiciary, we have to bear in mind that the qualification of the court's obligations, as it says, is not a good qualification and that it should be interpreted differently or in some way, even changed in some future period, because courts have no such obligation under the Constitution to do such a thing. Therefore, I think that it should be much more careful to approach this judicial relationship towards the future commission, which will certainly be composed of different structures of the civil sector of parents and of many others who can make up this commission, of course, by structure, but the Commission's and the court's relationship can't be against the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72908	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72909	I just wanted to say, because of my colleague Laketić's exposure, I believe he accidentally made one material mistake and he's right. I wouldn't have any dilemmas, I'd be happy to, as I announced, vote for this law, as I'm likely to vote in the end. Mr. Laketich, no, not all associations have been parentingly supporting these additions and new amendments. She supported one important, large, significant Belgrade group of parents, and that is important facts, and that is one of the oldest, if I am not mistaken, the association, probably the largest, and that is the shift in the right direction, in the direction of the compromise and consensus that they have spoken of here and that we have advocated, or at least a good part of us MPs here. Secondly, regardless of the attitude of one parent group, so they're not all, let's be exact here and fair, not all groups, but I think these complementary solutions are good. Among other things, it is a confirmation that it is often necessary to lower the ball a little bit, think, look, find solutions that if they do not satisfy all but at least the largest number of people and stakeholders. That's where it turned out. So for me, personally, independent of the parenting associations' attitudes, these complementary solutions are good, acceptable and in the right direction. So, this is not disputed, and it should be fair to say with some, as I would say, fence, which we must also mention, that this emergency that exists now is probably the consequence and the fact that the Council of Europe will consider the issue at the beginning of March and that it is very desirable to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Missing Babies. So she regulated that matter after years of not being regulated. I'm probably interpreting it, part of it and desire plus because it's over, that's it. The nearer the end of the work of this House calls for this law to be passed. And the effort has been shown, and where luck is that it's a similar effort and I point to other situations where we've taken some legal decisions without this many beats, worries, and haste. So it's certainly in the right direction, you just have to point out that it should never lead to the cover-up of a terrible crime where it was desperate to steal and kidnap, when we call it what we want, a baby from our maternity and human trafficking, or trade in babies, which is even scarier, although every human trafficking is terrible. And the commission is important. A change in the composition of the commission has been proposed, also something that is in the right direction and that representatives of parent associations are reportedly going to have a majority, i.e. It's not supposed to be, that's how it's proposed. So these are positive and good measures. In my subjective court, this proposal deserves to be adopted, but just for the sake of precision, not all associations have accepted but it is one large parent group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72910	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72911	Thank you. First, I'm glad there's an agreement now that the legal proposal is good. On the other hand, I also agree that no one should be protected, I am now talking about the persons who have wronged the law, and they have participated in any way in the disappearance of children in maternity homes. So the essential thing is the one that the law defines, which is that it protects neither laughs nor will be. Anyone who wronged the law and participated in any way in the disappearance of children in maternity homes will be sanctioned. As for urgency, if the word were really in a hurry in this regard, so the law would probably be passed on that basis, so under the pressure of the European Court of Justice back in 2016, when the verdict of Zorica Jovanovic existed. The essential thing is still something else, and that's the willingness to face the problems that are definitely in this country. Unfortunately, these problems, most of them, date back from some period and before this government. Do you think this problem should not have been solved in the 1990s, in 2000? I'm convinced he should have. Why is he getting rid of himself today and not then? Now, that's another question. I have to say, if we're talking about urgency, it's an emergency to get to the truth. The key thing is to get to the truth about whether there was a child theft and who stole it if it came and that, of course, the responsible are brought to justice. Now, that's an emergency. It's something we owe both to parents, after all, as a state and as people who do some responsible work. As far as the law is concerned, I say once again, I think with these amendments, there is definitely the satisfaction of all relevant entities. Whether it's all associations or not, it's already some other question, but most people who are interested in this problem, who have had trouble, who have experienced pain are satisfied and will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72912	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72913	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to get involved here briefly with these amendments that were proposed yesterday by the government's representatives. First of all, I'd like to welcome such a move, which was made yesterday, and I think it's the most democratic possible move, because first of all, those who suffer most in this society because of this problem and this kind of crime, and these are parents. When it comes to the jurisdiction of this commission that has been formed, it has been mentioned here whether the courts need to deliver data to them, etc. I think something else in this whole complex is much more important. I talked about it and mentioned it in principle. I don't think we should forget that the law is now, in addition to this commission, before it is envisaged by an expert-expert team within the Ministry of the Interior, which will deal with the research of the overall issue and which will be the first to fight this type of crime. I think there must be daily contact, day-to-day co-operation, the agenda, so to speak, the actions of this committee with an expert-expert team to be set up within the Ministry of the Interior, because it will be much easier for the joint to come up with a joint investigation, and also to carry out investigations that the court, the prosecution, anyone who orders this expert team. That's why I think we need to install somewhere and decidently say it. And, one more thing to say when it comes to this expert team within the Ministry, I think another provision should be introduced into this law, which is that the interior minister is required to adopt a rule that will develop the competence and work of this expert team within the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72914	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72915	Here, first of all for the public, I really can't sit still and listen to these praises you sing to yourself, because what you're saying is simply not true. We listened to you two days ago and then you said that the bill was the best possible. We've pointed out to you all the failures you've made, indicating that the law you're making is inconsistencies with the International Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg. You say we're bringing it in, and that's why we'd have to hurry back to 2016. You obviously haven't even read the material, and you don't know since the International Court of Human Rights verdict in Strasbourg. It is from March 2013 and you are obliged to pass the law and solve this problem no later than a year later. The other thing is you're justifying that your predecessors haven't solved this problem. They paid the political price not to solve it, among other things, in 2012. The third thing, those predecessors of evil who did nothing and were not ready to face the problem are your coalition partners that you are sitting in government with today. All these political parties, there are 15 of them, so from SPS, JS, Karic, SPO, POKS, there is no one. So, the same irresponsible people who refused to face the problem, you're saying that today you're very responsible and, my God, ready to face the problem. If you were ready, you would've done it right after you won power. You could have done it before the European Court of Human Rights ruled. Do you need a Strasbourg verdict to solve the problem of people, children, parents, who have been suffering and waiting for that solution for years, and you yourself said, some and 50 years, some cases are from the 1970s? You're talking about responsibility and not protecting anyone. Voluntarily or reluctantly, you have just protected those who have stolen babies, because by refusing to solve this problem institutionally and by passing the right law, you have allowed them to pass the time. Over time, every next day, every following year, it's so much harder to come to a solution, it's so much harder to get to the truth. How many parents whose children may have been kidnapped and sold, who died in that previous period? How many people, doctors who took part in all this, who will never answer because they died in the meantime? So you can't talk about that only others are responsible, you're not. They've been responsible for the period since 2012, and you're responsible for these eight years of non-action.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72916	By amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72917	Thank you. Of course, no one can be appalled by any responsibility, and neither can those who concealed the crime, for concealing a crime is nothing but a crime. We don't need late wits. At least together in the coalition with the main party, the Serbian Progressive Party, we raised the issue others did not raise. The question arises why critics who criticise it today did not criticise it when it was due. Which is why they didn't point out at the time, as they now point to where those mistakes are, where are your failures? Which is why they did not then come up with public opinion with anyone else to raise their voice and say, yes, there are problems and there are serious problems with serious crimes, extremely serious criminal qualifications, and then to appear as someone who will be the voice of reason. It's a little late for that now, because it's a purely populist story. What's very important is that the creamworth has given a respected colleague, Laketić. The fact is that demagogy is called for the urgency of the procedure. The fact is that demagogy is now to say how fast it is to be done, soon after 30, 40 or more years. What does that mean soon after so many decades? What does it mean quickly if someone who covered up the crime remained absolutely out of the reach of any processing, and thus far from condemning, or advertising guilty and condemning the appropriate punishment? Which is why these facts are not pointed out in the right way, and that means that everything that preceded is demystified literally. What seems most important to me, I'm not sure when we talk about criminal proceedings after law enforcement, this law does not touch criminal prosecution, nor does it touch judgment. Other laws are applicable to this, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code and so on. This law doesn't norm, it doesn't regulate, but this law opens up space to determine the facts of which depends on what has been done and who has done and in what way. Is that going to be out of date? Maybe. It probably will, but there will be one moral condemnation of society, one moral condemnation of the social community for all those identified as guilty of the worst crimes or misdemeanors, and that is what should be a message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If there is any legal possibility, any legal stand for the conduct of criminal proceedings, for processing, for pointing out anything that could lead to orders to conduct a public investigation, a major investigation, a verdict, I would be happy and I am sure that I share that happiness with all of you here in the ranks of our parliamentary groups, our benches. Is that gonna happen? I don't know, I'm not legally sure, but I'm sure this way will come to the truth, and that truth, when revealed, is certain to cause real reactions of the social community to all those who have committed atrocities to babies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72918	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nemanja Sarovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72919	You know how, Mr. Jovanovic, here the advances can say that they're only responsible for the last eight years, yellow before them for those 12 years, and if someone's carrying the greatest responsibility, it's you communists. These other regimes, all after 2000, can say -- it happened during another government, and that authority was just you. So, the communists who later disguised themselves as socialists, you are you during whose regime all this was happening. You are the most responsible and you are the last to have the right to teach anyone any lessons in this and many other matters. As far as you're saying no, you don't need an ex-wise mind, it's better and it's later than nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72920	Right on the line, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72921	Thank you, Chairman. Well, it's a good thing a fellow critic of the SPS represents a break that doesn't fit for nothing, absolutely no answer and no responsibility for anything. That's great. It's great for two reasons. The first reason, she couldn't because she didn't participate in power, she wasn't even a parliamentary party, so she snuck into an opposition act that, in my opinion, was quite comfortable. Let's criticise, let's express a variety of populist and demagogue attitudes, who's guilty, who's responsible, we're not. It's no problem, but that's why we're going to bring the salves of criticism and the most unfounded on those who criticise them, in fact, in no way should they suffer, nor can these criticisms apply to them. The Socialist Party of Serbia, thank God, is in power as much as it is. The parliamentary party, since its existence, has been a state-run party, has involved itself in all kinds of state-run organisation, and that is something that is for the pride of the SPS and its members, including citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the topic we're discussing, we're not leaving the topic, because always from a fellow critic we hear something that's 1% about the topic and 99% off the topic of conversation. To get back on the subject, I just want to point out one more fact that no one will question, and that is the fact that this law, regardless of what amendments are trying to devalue its value, should we all support it, because it is a responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a responsibility to the parents of missing babies, it is a responsibility to all those who deserve satisfaction, at least in this way, if not otherwise, at least through the law that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72922	Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72923	Well, Mr. Jovanovic, you're in a very strange way something that shouldn't be a virtue you represent as a virtue. You say that your quality is that you are always in power. You prove it, Mr. Jovanovic, just so you can go with everyone. What kind of principle is that? You're principled for power, at all costs, and that's your only principle. When I remember how you only praised Boris Tadic for your time, how you praised Mladjan Dinkic with fire, how you praised many of those who destroyed Serbia and the Serbian economy, in which they conducted the robbery privatisation, how you praised Radulovic when he was elected to the government. Whom you didn't praise, so it's practically not on the political scene. What is it that you of the SRS object to? That we were principled, that we had our own ideology, that we didn't give up our president? And you and Slobodan Milosevic from The Hague gave up, because you completely gave up every ideology. Who today can say what ideology is, besides power? Your ideology is power. You gave up everything else. You say the evil opposition to the amendments affects the law. Well, it's a really big disgrace that we've submitted to the amendments. You're telling us two days ago that the law is the best possible. Now you're essentially changing it. My remark was right, I read to you twice the European Court of Human Rights ruling, which obliged Serbia to form an independent body that would deal with this. You say there's no good in the opposition. Our complaint was that you did not unite the way the truth would come, because to be clear, not all doctors participated in the theft. Here, when all cases are taken into stock, there will be some regularity, in which hospitals, in which doctors, in which shifts, when that happens. I made it clear-- those people should be on the pillar of shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72924	Time. Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72925	I thank you, Chairman. You know what, sir, I'm sorry, I won't address Mr. Sarovic because the Rules of Procedure won't allow it, and he does, even though you don't sanction him in that sense, but there's no problem. I will ask you to hear what I want to present to Mr. Sarovic. If he hears, he'll hear. If political parties appear on the political scene, as far as I know naturally, these political parties are struggling to achieve the best possible result to be in power. It's not logical and natural for a political party to fight to be in opposition. But I don't mind it being that way. If Nemanja Sarovic and the SRS are trying to do so, it is not disputed. However, that is why it does not need much, they are already in opposition, and at least, the least credit and credibility to highlight something that Mr. Sarovic pointed out has exactly him. Let him ask himself, Mr. Sarovic, how many percent of the SRS in the elections have achieved in the last how many electoral processes, how long has it been outside of this parliament, how much is their potential in the electoral body now? Thank God, we've lowered this censorship from 5% to 3%, so I hope that censorship skips. Anyway, my wish is that they don't fight to be the opposition party. It is my desire that all parties fight for power and be in power to make the state feel better. On the other hand, what Mr. Sarovic forgets, so the infected SPS, that satanic SPS supported the SRS and was in a coalition with the SPS. If that fact hadn't been forgotten, I think it'd be good. It's an SPS today and then, and it always will be. Let's go on the subject again...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72926	Thank you. This was a replica, two minutes and 17 seconds. You will continue. The word is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72927	Mr. Jovanovic, I have not told the SPS at any time that it is satanic or any of the insults that you yourself make about your political party. I've been culturally speaking to you all along and talking about your stranger. What you can't like and what you obviously don't have an answer for is arguments. It hurts when I say - you supported Dinkic and Tadic and Cvetkovic and Vukic and Ana Brnabic alike. And the only constant in your politics is that you love power. No one argues that the political party can achieve a better or worse result. The Serbian Radical Party has achieved different results. We've had over 30% of citizens' trust, we've had 2%, but never, unlike you, have we sold our faith for dinner. You say we supported the SPS. We did, but you're not going to compare the SPS of Slobodan Milosevic's time to the SPS today, are you? Still, there are some principled differences. You will not compare the reasons why we participated in the government for two and a half years, from March 1998 to October 2000, and then we proved to be more principled than you. After October 5th and the Bulldozer Revolution, we were also called to the Transient Government, but the SRS leadership rejected it with detestation, and you ran to be co-ministers with those Fridays. It was for you, so give it another three months of power, so it's better with them than not to be. It's that urge you can't say -- so here we are, we're going to be the opposition, but we're going to have some attitude or we're going to be out of Parliament, but we're going to stick to our principles and ideals. That's an unknown to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72928	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72929	I thank you, Chairman. Slobodan Milosevic was the SPS president during the period when the SPS was a dominant and superior party on Serbia's political scene, and that is the current of the SPS, and that is something that the SPS will always respect and appreciate and cherish, and that is ours, not the SRS. To remind only my esteemed colleague, given that I seem to have quite a demagogue story about Slobodan Milosevic and the glory of Slobodan Milosevic, because it was from the ranks of the SRS that the most criticism was, not to say, spitting, disgust in the name, personality and account of Slobodan Milosevic. I don't know why an esteemed colleague from the SRS doesn't remember, and he should remember, because he was politically active at that time when the SPS, and then during Slobodan Milosevic, was infected, was someone who was, let's not present now the qualifications for which I was just accused by a respected colleague, but in any case the party that was unacceptable to the SRS. What I should say, in the end, I would no longer comment on this, all of us if we had in mind and remember, how much is the SPS electoral body and how many percent of the SPS always wins in the elections, what is the election result, how much is the SPS time of the parliamentary party, so let all these parameters and criteria take into account the distinguished colleague and let the status and importance and quality of his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72930	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another one of a series of laws that is passed under the pressure of Strasbourg, Brussels or who knows who already knows who, and we all know that everything that is brought under pressure can't produce long-term results. Of course, no one normal in Serbia is opposed to revealing the strictest punishments of monsters who dared to steal and sell other people's children, but I'm not sure that this law, as you have conceived it, will contribute to it. We heard here and you heard from a great lawyer, a colleague of the Verica Radeta, that this thing should be qualified as an act of international terrorism and then that thing doesn't go out of date, and apparently the kids here, these unhappy parents, were shopping and they were people from abroad involved. It is not essential for our citizens to come to babies in this way, to have children, but that's where people from abroad bought these children. I have the impression that in this way, this law, it wants to draw attention from one other thing, which is the most important and most important problem of the state and of this society, which is the Natalie which, unfortunately, is what it is and if something is not done in this respect, the state of Serbia and the Serbian people does not write well in the perspective. Is that this government has a minister with no portfolio, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who is in charge, let's say, of this most important policy, but the results are not yet visible. We can also boast of success by increasing the economy, pay, gross national income, the number of kilometers of highways, but this is a vital thing and without this everything else falls into the water. History has not recorded the case that a state, a society, has escaped from the crisis unless there has been an increase in the population, an increase in population. So, you need to concentrate on this thing and a whole series of measures to predict that will contribute to this, and when that is resolved, of course, it's not a matter that can be solved right now, but in this process you should literally go right now, right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72932	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this shows us the seriousness of all this when in two days we see the amendments fundamentally changing the bill at the last minute. So, at the time of the principle debate, we could hear here that this is the authority that took responsibility to solve something that couldn't have been solved 10, 20, 30 or how many years ago, that they had finally faced the problem and that this government would have solved it, etc., and then when we talked in principle about this bill, without these amendments, there were no essential solutions. There are no solutions other than paying off money to some people who are looking for the truth about their children, then in two days the amendments correct it and such a commission is formed. If this government, since 2012, has been in charge for eight years now, is now preparing the Law on Missing Babys, that is, there are people who write it, right, they consult some others, they are investigating these cases that such a single bill should look, for some time it has been done, for two years surely in the assembly procedure, and only in two days everything changes, what does it say about the understanding of the law, the understanding of parliamentaryism and the role of parliament in Serbia at all when it is able to happen after two days? We have heard that in fact everything is being solved by Mr Stefanovic, that all this is being solved, that the police will certainly investigate without any legal solutions, that the police will prevent any future attempts to kidnap children, etc., but that is the law we have been waiting for. When we in the SRS talked about the need for the role of the state, to show in all this, whether through a survey board, whether through a committee like this, they criticized, i.e. Mr. Stefanovic and Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, how this could not have happened, as it used to be, so there were no results etc., and then in two days it all works the same way. These amendments, which need this bill to contain, are essentially in conflict with what Mr. Stefanovic said, and Stefanovic was here a representative of the promoter. What does that tell this government of the Republic of Serbia? Do you have any deal at all before you come to the Assembly? Do you read those laws? Is that where you're investigating? So, in two days, everything Mr. Stefanovic said is falling absolutely into the water. This question can be resolved through this committee, and it is necessary, but what is most needed, and what is not seen, is the political will to resolve this issue. So we can have the most professional, the best, the great commission, but if we don't have the political will to solve this issue, we're free of the commission. The thing is, and we talked about it in principle, that it should start with an investigation, with hearings of all doctors, police officers, people related to maternity care during that period, suspected of having missing babies, or stealing babies from the maternity ward, so it would solve one case for example, but that one case could be the key to solving the whole process, the whole mob, because no one involved in stealing babies did it just once and they weren't persons that were not connected to each other, and that's why it was meant to be solved, or to try to get rid of it. We were witnesses, I don't know if Minister Djordjevic took part in it, but a little bit, as some public affair arises around ministers, so one minister is involved in malfeasance with Krusik, so the other minister is involved in some malfeasance with some other foreign companies such as Zorana Mihajlovic, immediately extracts some polygraph, goes to the minister to swear his innocence on a polygraph and then the news, not the court truth, not what really happened, not who's right -- but the minister passed the polygraph. So that's the method of seeking truth in Serbia when there's an affair about key representatives of the regime, and then when we say -- where's your polygraph now, where's your polygraph in this investigation? If it's such a great tool that separates the lie from the truth, I ask a fine polygraph and all the doctors, midwives, cops, all the people who have anything to do with maternity homes at the time of stealing children from the maternity ward or where they suspect that the theft occurred first on a polygraph. For example, that would be one first step. There would be some information that would be sufficient to continue this process, or to seek the truth about children. When it came up, it didn't look like the truth, the story of stealing children from the maternity ward. But how is it possible that when a large number of parents found it true, people were found, some of these stolen, how some parents, or associations of parents, could come up with some information in 10, 20 or 30 years, and the Republic of Serbia was unable to do so? How are parents, individuals, and those associations more capable than public authorities? As far as this money is concerned, what is being brought here, or why is such a solution being made? The European Court of Human Rights has reached a verdict which should be the reason, not of course, but only because the European Court of Human Rights has reached a verdict on this one case and of course the law is adopted here, not because of some intention to establish it, I guess it is clear to everyone, and there is a figure of 10,000 euros, and then the legal solution says - the parent has the right to a fair fee of up to 10,000 euros. Where are these people, i.e. how is it possible to distinguish between these people if they really have information, indications that children have been stolen, so once it pays 5,000, the other is paid 7,000, the third is paid 10,000 euros? So it's from one to 10,000 euros. Someone can get one euro, right? What kind of solution is that? Who can estimate that a man's child has been stolen a lot, has been largely stolen from him, so he'll get 10,000 euros, and someone else's child hasn't been stolen so much, it's been stolen to a much smaller extent, so he'll get 100 euros? Where's the logic, like many other questions? So, the original legal solution shows that instead of facing concrete problems and trying to solve them, however exhausting this may be, or painful or difficult, it goes through a line of less resistance. We will see how this commission is going to show, but the intensity of these imagined 10,000 euros is perhaps that in this way one of them, who is having a hard time living, who may not have a job, might be in a difficult situation of life, would certainly mean 10,000 euros to him, so the urgency is that someone who might receive that money would give up a further investigation, or search for information, or a search for their child. I don't see any other reason for that passing, and it doesn't solve the problem. If the commission is in line with these marketing approaches to the problems, then she won't do anything. So it's going through a line of less resistance, trying to solve the problem of money, or money to comfort someone, and then it's happening after a certain period, and the authorities finally solved this issue, which has nothing to do with the truth. We talked if any figure in the legal solution appeared, whatever it was, it kind of basically puts the price on one child, which isn't even fiscal. It could fall or increase the cost of a child. When we passed a law here that stipulates that every citizen of Serbia is a mandatory organ donor if, before that, a written statement by the notaries does not deny that consent, or explicitly forbids it, we were talking about a very, very potential possibility of it being a source to supply the black market to human organs for Western Europe, since they see us as one market, as a source of resources from cheap labour to natural resources, from raw materials, etc., why not human organs? This could be a potential source, i.e. a resource for the black market of EU countries with children. We have already heard comments from the EU on the subject, above all from Germany. It was those cases. That's not what you're talking about in Serbia. Serbia does not do that. This one with this price, because as soon as the price is put in, or as soon as the number is put in, that's actually the price. That's what's problematic. Instead of trying to get some parents to take that money to maybe give up, you should have offered them the truth, and you should have prepared yourself thoroughly first, to know what you're going to do and how you're going to do with such a commission, not to make up the commission in two days. An unserious approach is by the government of the Republic of Serbia if only two days from now something is being designed which should be crucial in resolving this issue. Is it responsible – two years is just a law in the congregation procedure, that only in two days does such a thing change? In our opinion, it's not. Secondly, no one has thought about what kind of image can be created in public when people who don't have anything to do with missing children say that they have, that they invent, that they cheat in the hope of reaching these 10,000 euros in some way. Do you feel that this may be potentially compromising for all these people who have been looking for the truth for their children for 20 or 30 years? If some hohstapplers show up hoping to get this money, since we already see it much better for the authorities in Serbia to pay off without doing anything else, will all these people who have been insisting on it for many years? So again, we say, since the solution is not being seen, that we just need to see what the work of this committee will be, what is crucial in resolving this issue, as well as any other, and that is what we see often missing, that is political will. If he has political will, this question can be resolved. If this question just needs to be removed from the agenda, well, then the money will be paid. That's the situation. A form with no substance whatsoever, that's a bill of this law. It is not correct by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in our opinion, that after the adoption of this law, anyone can say that this issue has been resolved in Serbia and that after 20 years, this authority has resolved the issue of missing babies. That would be immoral, that would be embarrassing, that would be scandalous, and we've seen such announcements before the law came into assembly procedure by the minister of justice. So instead of turning your head away from the problem, instead of going on a less resistance line, you need to be determined to approach the solution and research, i.e. investigate what happened to these children and then see through some period of work, and if you pass laws just because such guidelines are European Court of Human Rights, then we won't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72934	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72935	Thank you, President. At this session, we had two agenda points that are very sensitive and we need to speak very carefully. Unfortunately, one and the other points of the agenda are rights of fighters, war people and others, and the other is this bill that I could call a bill of law on the horrors that have survived mothers, families, fathers and family members of babies who have died, and are not shown to see, they are not allowed to be buried, or kidnapped and sold. I was particularly surprised by the segment of last night's magazine show where a man appeared as a potential baby buyer, not to convince. I don't understand that after that show, the public prosecutor doesn't react, listen to this person and initiate an investigation. That's one moment to keep in mind. I don't want to talk about pre-election marketing with such heavy and sensitive laws, but how much superficially this law speaks and the explanation of point IV – financial resources needed for the application of the law. The second paragraph reads - The funds needed to pay off the immaterial damage in 2018, I underline in 2018, will be provided by redistributing already approved funds of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, "Official Messenger" No 113/17 under Section 23 of the Ministry of Justice, etc., etc. If you have already had the hearing to respect the intervention of one parent association, which I welcome, then why not the committee, the Proposer of the Justice Ministry, did at least correct this argument point IV and brought it into force with regard to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 or 2021 when this law enters into force, or when it will apply, pardon, 2020. At the same time, I'm in a dilemma whether to vote yes, no or to be abstentioned. As parents require, I should vote yes. From the disputes I've heard here, probably not. And I'll be left with a dilemma until the end of this session and a debate on this agenda as to how to plead before I'm sure this law will not allow the state to suffer the consequences in financial terms, which we can and may ignore regardless of the amount, and to extract those persons who are responsible, and this is about organised crime. The disappearance of babies could not have carried out a single person, not even a doctor, without the help of medical technicians, midwives, porters, and all others who were in that shift at that time when the act was carried out. At the same time, in the end, allow me to wish everyone who celebrates their birthday every fourth year on today's birthday, and I hope that although this month has one more than usual, the minimum income, or minimum earnings, will allow them to celebrate their birthdays, although this is not the case with employees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who, even with high school, have no minimum income at the level of minimum personal income, but are paid 600 dinars a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72936	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72937	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the disappearance of babies, we all think that there's been a lack of intention, but there are also cases where it can come from circumstances. Here's one MP who wrote what he wrote from personal experience, listen carefully. I was born in a Chacan hospital, which was quite unusual in 1949, for a woman from the village to give birth to a child in the city, not at home. And indeed, right after birth, there was an unusual situation, and I was replaced when I left the maternity home. As a baby, I had a number six, so my mother took home baby number nine instead of me. Fortunately, that other baby was a girl, so the replacement was immediately noticed. So the baby's disappearance could have been caused by circumstances. In this case, I think those who switched sides noticed that it was better to keep the girl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72938	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I suggest you listen to what's still wrong with your law. The last time you didn't listen, you claimed we were malignant, so you had to spend half the night with Natasa Kandic and Tatjan Macur under unexplained circumstances to change the law. And these amendments you've submitted are not entirely meaningful. Here, for example. You have now added one position that says that the promoter can restart this procedure if the court first determines that it cannot determine what happened to the child, on condition, says that the same thing has been learned about new facts or has obtained the possibility of using new evidence based on which a second solution might be made. This member and this position are now contrary to the 16th law. Article 16 of the law says the proposal can be submitted to the court within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. So, the law comes into force, someone submits a proposal, do you think it'll be settled within 15 or a few months? Given how Serbia's courts operate, these are procedures that will take full clarity for years. Let it take a year for the proceedings, to be extremely expeditious, to end within a half-year, to have a verdict, to appeal to it, until it is returned to court, so it will already point out this pre-exclusive period of six months to initiate the procedure, which means that this member is completely pointless. Secondly, I point out once again to you that in the European Court of Human Rights ruling, it does not say that the maximum possible compensation for immaterial damage, therefore for suffering mental pain, for the suffering of those parents who have lost their children, and whose state has not helped and resolved their questions for a long, long time, so the European Court of Human Rights does not say that the maximum fee is 10,000 euros, 10,000 euros plus all taxes, that is what has been decided in this particular case. Those in the part of the verdict obliging the Republic of Serbia to form an independent body, to solve the problem in a proper legal manner, by making lex specialis, have just said that adequate compensation must be made in each case. You and here have another contradictory thing where you determine compensation in the law, you first say that the court determines the amount of fair cash compensation, immaterial damage, the court determines at a free estimate. Do you know what the court's free judgment is? Is there anyone here who hasn't bought a degree? Free judgment of the court means freedom. Freedom to determine a smaller, larger compensation under the circumstances of the case, according to its own assessment, according to the expert's assessment. And you are already in the next position of the same member to determine that the maximum compensation will amount to 10,000 euros in dinar equivalent, or there is a court's free assessment, or the fee is limited in advance. You've limited it. That means he doesn't have any free judgments.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72940	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The 12th amendment was submitted by the national envoy, Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go, Mrs. Whitey.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72941	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment proposing that Article 13 be deleted. The bill of law, and in fact the whole bill of law should be withdrawn from the procedure, given that it is entirely extremely bad. When we look at the bill, even its title isn't well-defined enough since the term of children disappeared from maternity care, and the fact is that children didn't disappear, they were stolen. It is also a fact that the mothers of children suspected of being stolen in 100% of cases were born in state institutions and that it was the public workers, or doctors and nurses, in connection with the workers of the parent service who were stealing children. By the way, the least the state can do is try to find those kids. It is wrong that this bill provides for the possibility of material compensation in cases where it is not possible to carry out an appropriate investigation. There should be no correlation between carrying out an investigation and paying off material damages just as that material compensation should not have been defined by the bill at all. The amount of 10,000 euros is certainly humiliating, but all of which are higher, material compensation must not be paid because children must not have a price. You can put the price on dogs, cats, other animals, but not on children, because the pain faced by parents whose children have been stolen can't be measured. It is clear to us that you are in a hurry to pass this law, so that in the campaign you can boast that you have solved this issue, but the fact is that the bill is not right. Since it is quite clear that you will not withdraw it from the procedure we are left with anything but to ask you to try after the election in the next term to complete this law in a way that provides for an investigation in each individual case, because it is only right and only what the parents of the missing children ask of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72942	Thank you, Mrs. Whitey. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72943	We intervened on every member of this bill to draw attention that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should withdraw this law from the procedure. Instead of doing so, the government met with Sorosev Milan Antonijevic last night, with a group of parents, with Tatjan Macur and they agreed that through three amendments they would solve the problem and draw attention from the fact that this law offends all parents, and especially the parents whose children were stolen, as counterpart Belacic said, were not children walking away from the maternity ward, these are babies that someone had to take, pack and sell to someone for serious money. You now want to, speaking today, draw attention to actually those 10,000 euros, to draw attention to this fundamental problem that you think there are parents who are ready for 10,000 euros to permanently and forever shut up about the fact that they seriously suspect that their child has been stolen from a maternity home. We told you three days ago what we said two and a half years ago, three years ago when information appeared in public that there was a doctor in retirement, a gynecologist, a woman, and she lives in Subotica. We ask – did the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did the ministry do anything to at least find out who all the women of the gynecologists retired and live in Subotica and have they tried to talk to any of these women? We said then and we repeat now, maybe it's the wrong lead, but it's too serious that we should ignore it. In fact, you're telling us here that you don't pass the law on a straight, back-to-back basis, because he, my God, has been in the process since 2018. The law was then sent from the government, and as far as you bring it back-to-back, it tells you that at the last moment Sorosev Milan Antonijević, Kandićkin, Milan Antonijević dictates the text of an amendment that would calm you down as much as the public. The public needs to know that this is a big con, that this is a law that the government has to pass, it doesn't have to, but simply because they have defined themselves to be trampling dead and alive on the European path, they're doing this. On the other hand, this will serve them to tell in the campaign that there is no one before them, they will first solve these problems, and we only ask – did in so many years as you are in power, come close to a solution and a single case? It's not. We ask, here is a colleague, Maja Gojkovic, who says that Mr. Cosic is just a clerk. I don't know if you're a ministerial assistant now, on behalf of the ministry in 2010, Assistant Minister Jovan Ćosic said you can't and won't solve missing babies' problems due to old age. What's not clear about that? We say, you can't say as we heard an hour ago, so we won't let cases like this get old. We're not an Apache tribe, I guess we're a state-of-the-art. How can anyone say – we will not allow it, and the law is not changed? We say -- this is international trafficking in people, international trade in children, this is what foreign intelligence services are involved in. Qualify that as such a criminal act, and then we'll say there's no obsolescence. As long as you don't, let your hollow stories go. Someone who doesn't know that matter enough to believe you, who generally trusts you, can stick this to you as a big success. This isn't your success. This is a distraction, this won't solve a single problem, this is an insult to parents, to the human mind, to children who already have indications that they don't live with natural parents, for children who may one day really have irrefutable evidence that they are their children, so for all people in Serbia, this law is a great insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72944	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72945	I'm a little involved in this subject myself. Mrs. Radeta said here several very difficult qualifications that I can't agree with. I have carefully followed the course of exposure and the overall debate of the amendments so far, and I think that there is a whole series of policy views here that have absolutely nothing to do with what the bill really says. First of all, it is not true that the bill was found in the congregation procedure and that we would vote for it today because anyone, as one puts it, is pressing us. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that the Republic of Serbia is under much more pressure, so it has not yielded, on some other issues that I will not say are more important than this issue, but are equally important at the very least. We have suffered pressures and failed to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation because we are a candidate country for EU membership, so we need to bring our security and foreign policy into line with EU policy. Since the EU, or EU member states, imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, then the EU began to ask the Republic of Serbia to do the same. We didn't give in. That is one example where the Republic of Serbia has not caved in under pressure. If we have not given in under pressure to impose sanctions on Russia, then why should we suffer pressure from the European Court of Human Rights. It doesn't make much sense to me. Another example where we endure pressures and endure them and today is why does the Republic of Serbia acquire the most modern weapons from Russia and China, but above all from the Russian Federation and why do we not do so from some other, primarily Western, countries? And under that pressure, we didn't give in. As Serbian citizens can see, our army today is incomparably stronger than it was at the time of Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vojislav Kostunica and all those who ruled Serbia from 2000 to 2012. So, we haven't given in under that kind of pressure, and the pressures are severe, the pressures are daily, and they're much stronger than these pressures, the alleged pressures you're talking about, and the fact of the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to say is this -- it is not true that the law provides for an amount, a fixed amount of 10,000 euros that the state will pay parents to, according to counterpart Radeta, keep quiet. This isn't about that at all. It is not that anyone should remain silent, it is that the state has prescribed an amount that is not fixed, 10,000 euros, but that the court has been left to assess the amount to be given to the citizen for suffering mental pain, i.e. for suffering immaterial damage, and the amount is up to 10,000 euros. This should be the case because it is essentially a litigation procedure, and in every litigation procedure, not only in this case, the court has the right to assess freely, to assess the evidence freely. I suppose in some situations, the court may refuse to press charges, perhaps refuse to demand that a citizen be convicted of immaterial damage if he considers that there is no evidence. So this is not some legal novelty, that the court has the right to free grades, in every litigation case, the court has first to freely appreciate the evidence. The court, too, knows Mr. Jovanovic, as a lawyer, also knows Nemanja Sarovic, he is also a type of lawyer, so the court freely appreciates evidence in every litigation. The court isn't even tied to the findings or the expert's opinion. He's bound to get it, but he's not bound by what's written in the find and opinion of the expert, but he can determine himself that the actual state is different from what is defined in the find, or in the opinion of the expert. What I'm also trying to say is, since it's constantly here, it seems to me, it creates one wrong impression that the state hasn't done anything so far on those responsible for, to say in a Colloquial manner, baby theft, that's not true. There are criminal convictions that have been made in the course of the SFRY, as there are also criminal convictions that were made after 1990, against individual doctors who have been proven to be involved in this crime, or that they participated in this type of organised crime. So it wasn't the state that kept quiet. I can talk about that country, the former Socialist Yugoslavia, and each of us can think what they want, but the state fought whenever there was evidence that the child from the maternity ward was stolen, that he didn't die, but that it was stolen and that money was sold to someone, whether it was in the country or abroad. Such criminal convictions exist. In that sense, I can't accept that flat rate, the state was turning its head, the state was silent, the state was doing nothing. The state reacted through courts in all those situations when it was objectively possible, as it will now. Not to lie, to be a situation, to have a parent suspect his child was stolen, and the child actually died. We're already a little bit in the field of psychology. So anyone would like to be his child, or rather if the child had been stolen than if he had died. If it's stolen, at least it's alive. At least she's alive, even if she lives in a family that's in a situation, it wasn't hungry, it wasn't thirsty, that family trained him. It is that it is not his biological family, but the child is alive and well. Everyone in his head would rather accept the fact that his child was stolen than died, but in many situations, and when the proceedings are conducted, it will be determined that the child really died without being stolen. We seem to be starting to assume, in any case doubt that the child has been stolen, the child has indeed been stolen, and not so, in some situations it has happened, and in some cases it has not. What I also want to say, but right now I am merely expressing my personal opinion. This is not the party's position, this is not the parliamentary group's position. This is my personal attitude as someone who has the right to have an opinion on a social problem that objectively exists. I'm going to say again that in that former SFRY, I can think of this and that, but no matter what, I think that this country was fully legally arranged, that it had a solid legal and judicial system, that there was much less corruption in courts, that we had good courts, that we had good judges, that we had, after all, good doctors and good nurses who respected the principles of medical ethics. I doubt it, I personally suspect as a citizen that this was a phenomenon that could have been measured by tens or hundreds of thousands of cases, in individual situations, it certainly was. It certainly was, because there are already curves of judgment. But to define the state as an organization that didn't do anything else in the '60s, '70s, '80s, but was selling children from the maternity ward, I just can't believe it that way and I can't accept it. I don't think that's true. In individual situations it certainly was, but if these numbers were measured in hundreds of thousands, it's just amazing to me. Such an organized mafia, the Socialist Yugoslavia did not have and could not have, given that we are talking about cases that occurred in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. It's amazing how many people should be involved in such a single child abduction process from the maternity ward, so that the number is measured in hundreds of thousands. I don't think that was possible back then. What I also don't see is the problem, you say the government spoke to representatives of individual parliamentary groups last night and representatives of individual NGOs. Yes, it is. Nemanja Sarovic: On what basis and by what principle? ) On the principle that it is the government's task to talk to citizens, to talk to political parties, to talk to representatives of the Association of Citizens without any prejudice and without qualified someone to be like this or like that. We have had criticism before -- why you talked to these, why you spoke to those, why you spoke to Milan Antonijevic, Klacar, this or that NGO, for talking to European parliamentarians. We talked, I guess that's the essence of the democratic and the rule of law to talk, and let's not everyone dig into their trenches and everyone thinks they're 100 percent right and that their solution is ideal. In such an atmosphere, we will not come to any solution. We need to talk, because I cannot accept that the argument is the key subject of this bill, who is to blame that this bill has not been put into the procedure before, and why this law has not been passed, but the party led by Mrs. Macura. There is no political party here that was not in power at some stage of Serbian or Yugoslav history, let's not lie. Now we are able to transfer to one another, which is not you, and which is not you. Someone had to go first. With historical and political circumstances, it's the government run by the SNS. This is a fact and this government has also shown its willingness to discuss the proposals for a solution that it itself has referred to in the congregation procedure. Because we're willing to listen for who knows which way and someone else's opinion that doesn't always agree with ours and accept someone else's argument. No one knows everything about everything and no one can claim that such sensitive matter can be found an ideal solution. You know what the ideal solution is, by me? If someone invented a time machine, so let's go back to the '60s in the '70s, in the '80s, and in every single case that really happened, and it's about stealing children from the maternity ward, we process those who did it. Is that possible? It's not possible. We're talking about a time that's long behind us. I hope things like this don't happen now and they didn't happen five, ten or twenty years ago. Maybe sometimes they are, but we're talking about a time that's long ago, long behind us. Since we are talking about a plus-squauff, do you think that in such a distant past and events from that past, it is possible to find a legal ideal solution that all political parties will agree on, all NGOs and all parents who were or suspected of being victims or their children, trade in these children. Is that possible? It's not real, but we've shown courage to come up with a bill that we think is to a good extent, not entirely, of course, but to a good extent, it's on the trail of solving a problem called - the status of newborn children suspected, and not indisputably found missing, but suspected of missing, and whether they're really missing or not, it's going to be decided by the competent authorities. As I have already said in certain situations, they have already decided, so it is not true that the state has not responded so far, but as Nedjo Jovanovic said, by applying the Criminal Law and applying the Criminal Procedure Act. This is the first time that the state reacts by systematically editing this area of one law that we think is solid, is not ideal, but it is solid and can help all of us as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which political party we are in, whether we are members or not of this or that non-governmental organisation, to finally solve this problem and to determine what really happened in this phenomenon, which is so engulfing the public's attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72946	Thank you, Dr. President. Martinovic. Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic reported on the replica. (Verica Radeta: The party is mentioned, I was mentioned personally and a colleague, Nemanja Sarovic, was mentioned. ) Yes, you are right, the party is mentioned, and you are mentioned personally, but this time the championship has an authorised representative, Nemanja Sarovic. It's not him? All right, I'm sorry. Then the word has the Faith of Radet, my mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72947	I don't know what you're confused about or what's wrong with you today. So, the theme of stolen babies, the topic of missing babies, the topic of babies that have been sold, mostly abroad, but also in Serbia, is the topic that can be talked about in any way, but not that the topic has been cartooned, which was just the case. Who said hundreds of thousands of stolen children, who said that? In particular, the 2006 report, where 750 and some criminal charges were made, mentions some of the latest information that there are criminal charges of about 3000, and, of course, no one claims that any doubt implies that this is indeed the case, but it is about that this law will not remove doubts, it is about that this law will not solve any problems. Who says the state kept quiet? So you say from the government that the state was silent, that's not what we're saying. We say the problem lasts for decades and has not been solved properly, the attempt has been made. It's surprising that someone claims the theft was at the time of that lovely Tito of Yugoslavia, as it was said here. No, stealing babies unfortunately happened the last time the public knew about it, about two and a half years ago. Unfortunately, where happiness is not something that is truly amazing, the company is better off whether the child is alive or dead, but imagine, says a colleague, if the child is alive and lives in a well-being family, well around, it doesn't matter yet the parents of 10,000 euros, and everyone becomes benevolent. This is something I've become a little bit creeped out of, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72948	Thank you. Mr. Sarovic, the Faith of Radeta has answered, I can only give one replica. (Nemnja Sarovic: She can speak for herself, I have my own name and name. This really doesn't make sense what you're doing, he has his name and name. We can't do this now, Dr. Martinovic could have mentioned ten radicals, but nothing offended you. Here you go, even though I'm not sure he mentioned you at all, I don't think so, but come on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72949	Mr. Marinkovic, nobody else here but me in the O.R. isn't called Nemanja Sarovic, so he couldn't mention anyone else. If you have not listened carefully to the discussion, consult a secretary or a stenogram, but do not waste any time. First of all, as Mr. Martinovic says, that the government has the right to talk to everyone and how they spoke without prejudice, it is, but the question is just how to choose Natasu Kandic and Mrs. Macuru for the conversation. It's not without prejudice, it's exactly what you've shown yourself to be prejudiced. Prejudice towards other parliamentary groups. Mrs. Macura made a parliamentary group, by taking Radulovic's mandate, it is obvious that they are close to the regime, and that you want in every way before the elections to help them, and this is an unusual step to discover that kind of co-operation before the election. It's usually done after the election. The second thing, the Serbian Radical Party MP group, which is the strongest opposition party and which is the second parliamentary group in power in the National Assembly, did not call. We might have accepted, perhaps not, but if Anna Brnabic had called, it would have shown that she had no prejudice, so she confirmed that she did. Secondly, if it were luck, you'd have an honest desire to talk and deal, you'd have sat down before this law to talk. You have not shown such a desire and certainly cannot be honest with that desire if it is a discussion the night before the debate on amendments. As regards compensation for damages, the basis is set out in the Law on Liabilities and is prescribed according to each case. Imagine that in the Law on Liabilities, someone in advance limits the amount of immaterial damage to this or that base. That would be impossible. That would be a scandal. It's also a scandal to limit it here in law. And secondly, as I repeat more than once, it is contrary to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg's judgment directly, because it says that reliable answers must be provided in relation to the fate of each child and provide adequate compensation according to the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72950	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72951	Thank you. Just what we've heard now is proof that the arguments that colleagues make are not justified and that the bill is essentially good. All that we have now heard as a quote from the Court of Human Rights ruling is in the Bill of Law, therefore, that in each individual case the immaterial damage is compensated, with only the maximum amount being limited and not fixed, as says Radeta colleague - 10,000.00 euros. You're thus simplifying all other things, as you simplify this, thus simplifying those famous subsidies. You're starting with the state giving each investor 10,000, 20,000, 50,000, 100,000 euros. (Verica Radeta: 70,3000 euros. How much? You told Rauh 100,000.00 euros. For Rauh, you said the state gave, that Vukic gave Rah 100,000.00 euros. It is not true, but the state has given seven and a half thousand euros. But now let's get back to this topic. So we talked to everyone who wanted to talk. We talked to both of you, and we wanted to talk to you. But your problem is that you refuse to participate in advance, you refuse to participate in any public debate, because you consider it beneath your humiliation. Which you would now come to a public debate organised by the Ministry of Justice, about the draft law concerning facts, regarding newborn children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. We organised a public hearing organised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law on Election Laws, none of you showed up. No one can make you talk if you keep avoiding it. After all, I am now asking you, who are the fierce critics of the bill. What's the alternative? What are the alternative mechanisms to establish facts about the status of newborn children that I repeat, I suspect, and not necessarily found missing, but suspected of missing? So, give me, not me, give the SNS parliamentary group, give it to the Serbian government, which you are attacking so much, give alternative mechanisms how to solve this problem. I've never heard of any alternative mechanisms. I only heard that Serbian citizens are afraid, that this is an unprecedented nonsense, that this is done under pressure, etc. The 2013 verdict, the elections were in 2014, so if we had been under pressure, I guess we'd have been better off before that election, put that verdict into the bill, and no, we weren't scared in 2014, so we weren't scared in 2016, so we weren't scared about the presidential elections in 2017, so for the Belgrade City Assembly in 2018, but my God, here we were scared of the human rights court in 2020, and that's why we're making this law. The argument is ridiculous. We're passing the law because we want to help solve this problem. If you think something in this bill isn't good, it's your legitimate right that I don't dispute, you just have to offer alternative mechanisms, not flat-rate -- this law is no good. This law is good, i.e. The bill is good and the amendments we made last night, i.e. Representatives of the government, agreed only to correct the text of the bill, do not make it worse, make it better. You will see when you read these amendments, that Serbian citizens should know, in one of these amendments, I think that the second amendment says -- a person who only suspects that he grew up in a family that is not his biological family can only, therefore, only that person can initiate a procedure to determine the facts of his status, whether or not he has been stolen from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. (Vladimir Orlic: That's what you're looking for. ) This was the essence of objections both to yours and to those coming from Tatjana Macura and various NGOs. And we formulate that amendment and propose it to the National Assembly, and you say the law sucks. Well, good is wrong, but then as responsible people, say what's right. I'd like to hear what's right in the opinion of those who are criticizing this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72952	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Mr. Sarovic, Dr. Martinovic answered all your questions and explained everything. But for the sake of... (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party speak out loud. () What did you jump right away? So, the man answered all the questions quite correctly. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72953	Mr. Marinkovic, you are very tolerant, when it comes to the government and when it comes to the regime's MPs. Be a little while when we're from the opposition. Here, Mr. Martinovic, the truth works, to resolve certain issues. I have disputed the choice of your speaker, as Anna Brnabic has decided to speak to Natas Kandic, Tatjan Macur and one of the parents' associations. (Alexander Martinovic: You were invited, but you did not want to participate. We were not invited as a parliamentary group. Is it true we weren't invited? Yes, it is. (Alexander Martinovic: There was a public debate. ) Would we participate or not in that midnight meeting that's the question... (Alexander Martinovic: It was not midnight. )......................................................................................................... And we'll never know, but you, in a way that's unique to you, chose to invite those closest to you, and it's okay that it's Tatjana Macura and Natasa Kandic, it's your policy. Secondly, you challenge us for not participating in the Public Listening with Natasa Kandic. We are a political party, a parliamentary political party. Why didn't you organise a consultation at the level of the heads of parliament? You had a chance, you didn't do it. That shows you don't want to talk. Next thing. You say we're just criticizing, and there's no suggestion. No, it's exactly the opposite. We made concrete proposals. (Alexander Martinovic: What do you suggest? ) Here, I suggest you delete Article 16. What's the reason to be limited to six months of proceedings? Second, a principled remark, why, if the living parents can't be brothers, sisters, grandparents, to bear, to be proposing the initiation of this process? These are all principled reasons and concrete arguments that you have no answer to. (Alexander Martinovic: I have all the answers. Next. You deceive the public that the law is in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' ruling. You say -- it's going to be compensated according to each specific case, we've only limited to 10,000 euros. Well, you've suspended the court's free judgment. There is no court assessment if the maximum amount is limited. Why is it not limited by the Law on Bond Relations? What would happen if, in a particular case, the European Court of Human Rights said that the compensation to this woman to whom the verdict is 100,000.00 euros? Would that mean the law has to cost 100,000.00? No, this is an individual case. They're looking for a mechanism to solve all other similar cases. That's the point. You're scared, so you've pre-limited the law -- it can't be more than 100.00.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72954	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on line, MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72955	Here, we got scared after seven years. It's very important that the citizens of Serbia know. We have heard, dear colleagues, what is an alternative mechanism and how all this problem is solved - Article 16. Delete the fine article 16 from the bill and all problems relating to children suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia will be solved. I wish that were the case, but that's not the case. There's a whole series of... Don't caricate, Martin! I don't caricate anything, but you're banking this thing that it's funny. First, the meeting wasn't at midnight. The meeting was held yesterday at 4:00 in the Serbian government building, and there was no Natasha Kandic at the meeting. That's what Serbian citizens should know. The meeting was organised because it was requested by individual parliamentary groups and individual NGOs and Ana Brnabic, as the Prime Minister said - well, come on, let's once again pass the entire bill and discuss your proposals. What's undemocratic about it, what's wrong with it, and who's there, after all, being discriminated against? No one was discriminated against. Everyone was invited to a public hearing. (Marco Atlagic: They did not come.) ) The fact that you didn’t come, it’s your right, but don’t accuse the authorities that no one has called you for interviews. You're calling for interviews. (The Faith of Radeta: Who is the name of the public debate?) Have you ever heard what public debate means? ) Well, your colleague says - representatives of parliamentary groups should participate in the dialogue, and you say who the MPs are to participate in the public debate. Excuse me, who should we call? Who should we call? You're making this up again. That's not what I said. ) Well, you say - who are the MPs to participate in a public debate, and your colleague says - and why aren't the heads of Parliament called? You guys don't know what you want. And you know! Well, we know. What we know, we put it on paper. I'd like to hear what it is that you know more than we do, and if you put it on paper, other than -- you delete Article 16. If the point was to delete Article 16, we'd all vote for it. We wipe out a nice article on the 16th and solve all the problems. What if the courts, what if the other state authorities were dealing with this problem when Article 16 was properly deleted and all problems were solved? I wish it were, but it's not. The problem is much deeper, much more complex, much more complex. It goes back a long way. This is where you manipulate numbers. First it says there were 700 applications, then three thousand applications. After all, there were 700 applications, is there reciprocity between the number of applications and the number of missing children? Well, every application is one child. Maybe the application applies to 50 children, to 100 children, to 200 children. So we have to take care of what we're talking about. I ask you again – what is an alternative mechanism for what the government has proposed to be resolved and to establish facts about the status of newborn children suspected of missing from the maternity home in the Republic of Serbia? I have not heard this alternative mechanism in principle debate, nor now in the debate on amendments, except that you again accuse us of being traitors, of working on the dictatorship of Natasha Kandic, of organising some midnight meetings and so on. Here, I tell you when the meeting was yesterday at 4:00. I didn't say that you were traitors, but that you called the traitors to the meeting! When did we say you were traitors? All right, who's the traitor? Who's the traitor? (Vjerica Radeta: Milan Antonijević). Milan Antonievich? Okay, he's a traitor. Tatjana Macura is a traitor? They're all traitors? No, she's a patriot. ) Speak in the language of OZNA in 1945 - who says otherwise, slandering and lying, occupiers and domestic traitors and occupiers. Well, give me more. Yesterday you fought a war with this martyr, Nedjo Jovanovic. The man himself sits in the congregation, you jump on him, he's a communist, and you're expressing yourself in a 1945 dictionary -- traitors, occupier servants, like this. Hey, well, that's the dictionary of Slobodan Penezic Krcun, that's the dictionary of Alexander Rankovic, Josip Broz Tito. It's 2020. Let go of that embassy-marked dictionary. We are now talking about political parties, parliamentary groups, NGOs and so on. (Miss Radeta: NGOs... That's right, NGOs. Well, it exists everywhere in the democratic world. What's wrong with that? The Red Cross is an NGO. We were just thinking of the Red Cross! ) No, you were thinking of Natasa Kandic, and I am telling you that Natasa Kandic did not participate in the meeting. The fact that Natasa Kandic is coming to your meetings is your business, but she does not come to meetings organised in the Serbian government and that is what Serbian citizens should know. And it wasn't a midnight rally, the rally was at 4:00 p.m. on a proposal from these people. The Prime Minister accepted them. People have spoken, have reached a compromise and this compromise is contained in these three amendments. What's wrong with that? What's undemocratic about that? It's nothing. We're fixing the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72956	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica! Mr. Sarovic, you have no right to a replica. He can just... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! You can do it by your rules of procedure, but don't abuse it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72957	Mr. Marinkovic, I don't abuse him, but you keep doing it. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by your shameful attitude towards the representatives of the opposition in this room. Five minutes and 30 seconds were spoken by Aleksandar Martinovic and it did not occur to you to interrupt him, and our replica takes two minutes each and you interrupt immediately, immediately turn off the microphones, immediately alert, etc. Five minutes and 30 seconds. And that's democracy for you? It is the way you see good will, conversation and everything else, and it is always clear to you that Martinović or any other regime has the right to replicate, but you do not understand what it has hurt the feelings of the opposition, what has bothered them and why we want to say something. You choose who you want to talk to, and so you chose yesterday in the government. Let's just say you didn't call all the parliamentary groups, you didn't invite people, you didn't invite representatives of all the parent associations whose babies are missing, or you didn't suspect that. That's your problem. You can't show any principle in any field of action. You're saying we don't have a solution. Well, I told you in the principle debate that you failed to comply with the European Court of Human Rights ruling, that you formed an independent body that would deal with the fates of missing babies and give answers. You said – not true, it does not say in the European Court of Human Rights ruling. It's been two days and you see what it says and everything... You caricate about my objection to article 16. I don't have, like you, unlimited time, but take a stenogram of my discussion that lasted 15 minutes, when it was a principled part of the debate, so you'll see remarks from members to members and what it is you need to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72958	Thank you, colleague Sarovic, and you've been talking for one minute after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then you misused that right of yours. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I owe you an explanation. Since you are complaining about my behaviour towards the opposition, I can only tell you, here, very often Mr. Risticevic and Mr. Orlic complain, but it tells me that I am on the right track and I am doing this job right. For absolutely no moment, you know, alone, I didn't want to discriminate against you, or you, or anyone in your parliamentary group. You know, Mr. Martinovic was speaking according to the amendment. Man's got time. He uses his business opportunities that gave him the opportunity to join and position in his parliamentary group, so that absolutely your objection does not stand. You can only now declare whether you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on my violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72959	In line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day, especially why Nejo was tortured. I have to protect my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72960	Thank you. My colleague Radeta, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72961	I don't know what's weird, I said it in the Rules of Procedure, and you got it in your head, I thought. But now that you praise these in power, you, Mr. Vice President, can do it much harder, faster, better, to hear it well. So, you think we don't know how you work, that we don't know that you're trying to argue today so the people don't say -- these in the Assembly are only working half a day, because you have to wait for the quorum because your coalition partner has a party meeting, so I can't get to some point this afternoon. So don't just make fools of us. We're for cooperative work in this National Assembly, but you can't tell us, I don't know what, we're acting like a UDBA, who, like this, I don't know what's on your mind or what you remember. It bothers you that we say out loud that you force Tatjana Macura. Why? Because she promised, that you talked her into, that you didn't tell her what, how you convinced her to go to the polls, to meet those mentors of yours who asked you for that kind of party in the election. You don't mind, why don't you comment on what we said about her and those who took her mandates, so that they here at the National Assembly say -- there's been genocide in Srebrenica? Don't you mind? Then even though you're blowing up the story, you told me this, you told me that. You know, you have to take care of article 27, even if it's Doctor Honorable Martinovic, as you like to say, so you have to make sure that all MPs are exactly the same to you and you have to have a relationship with each one in the same way. I'm asking you a second time and please don't forget, this law if you don't withdraw, a miracle you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72962	Thank you. I am sorry because I know that you personally know that I have the same relationship with the MPs of the SRS, no different to Martinovic or anyone else. No, and you know it's not right, you know we have an absolute and unspeakable majority and no colleagues who are not where. So, no problem. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thanks for that. Mr. Chevarlitch, you're out of time. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Miladin Ševarlic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You know how, let's make a deal, you can't, you want one base, you want another. I'm not the kind of person here who meets her wishes. Please focus and next time you're looking for a word the way you think you should and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not if you can't do it one way, you're looking for another option. I'm not gonna let that happen today at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72963	Mr. Chairman, I apologize, but replaced him as a baby, don't replace him now at his age. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Member 103 and 104, Mr. Chairman, you said we were all the same, that you had the same archaic towards all of us, which is not true. You certainly know that on the subject of the replica and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am in a certain way neglected when you are all chairing, and I have brought this up several times. I have no objection to your tolerance for certain opposition groups and certain MPs, but I ask you to pay a little attention to the ruling majority in the future, and maybe we want to say something, too, sometimes we have a smart time to replicate, but obviously, on the matter of both measuring time and the matter of exercising rights, and you, by Article 104, have that kind of discretionary right to determine which MP after which discussions are entitled to replication and usually decide on my damage. Well, I'm not very mad at you, but try to balance it out a little bit. I'm not asking you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72964	Thank you for that. I know you often say that your two minutes at my place are not the same as someone else's. Let's move on. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72965	And here's the amendment to this one is that this law is catastrophic and that here, in fact, as a brilliant solution to this authority for babies taken from their parents, it all comes down to one mere red tape with an uncertain outcome. A moment ago, when he spoke to a colleague, Martinovic, and when he tried to caricate it in an unwise way, who certainly struck Mrs. Ana Pejic of Sremska Mitrovica, who in 1988 had a living and healthy child, after two days just told her that the babies simply didn't have any other mother who was looking for the truth about her children, he tried to say that we were so hyperbolizing here in data, making things up, so as we're making up some amazing thing. Then after that, he said something that's really scary. In most cases, it was likely that babies died immediately after childbirth. Well, you know, if that's how we look at it now and take all the data of the former Yugoslavia's demographic and health community and wherever it is that babies disappear, then by Mr. Martinovic's percentage and death rate in Serbia, Mr. Djordjevic, it was like in sub-Saharan Africa. Is it normal for someone to think of something like that? And then when the whole procedure comes down to getting 10,000 euros for the kidnapped child from the mother's arms, you say now -- that's what we could do, everything else is uncertain, it's been so long. And those people who weren't lazy, again to mention Mr. Pavlovic from this commission, as well as other parents, were found. Mr. Djordjevic, as a responsible man and as a minister, I know that, outside of this meeting in the Assembly, you also visit homes for old and other institutions that are under your ministry. Imagine, these people went, Mr. Marinkovic, and they found them in Nis, in Pogorevec, in Leskovec, double protocols. One protocol says that the child of that mother and that child was born in so many hours and so many hours, and the other one says that the child is deceased. By the way, one family is from Kruševec, I now have to say that Dusica Lazic is a witness to the abduction, one such kidnapping, most monstrous, child at 02.00 hours at midnight from the cruise hospital. She also saw the license plate number of that brown Mercedes. She later learned, or inspector to whom she reported it, that the family from Rabrov was at Pogorets and that this young man had been taken away from his mother and father and ended up in a small town in Germany. So all of this you knew, that these people, they didn't sit their hands down, so you waited now for you to bring the law back and forth. Speaking of which, they get that satisfaction by paying off that money, call you, Mr. Marinkovic, Zorica Jovanovic, here you are, the MP, vice president of the Assembly, so ask her how she felt, the woman is about to collapse when she was called on the phone to ask her what bill to pay her that money. Her pain, her grief and the fact that someone was systematically, and the state was doing it, covering up the child's abduction, there's nothing to pay for. You're the one who ran the whole thing. You're trying to caricate what hurts every single one of those parents who's following this session. And, Mr. Cosic, I end up, as a lawyer and as a man who was responsible, and then and now, he knows very well that if the court according to this article that is now being held here determines, as in the case of Zorica Jovanovic, that this child is missing, he will not be able to react because the Criminal Code accurately predicts in which cases the act is outdated. You have lawyers here in the SNS, or in your coalition, people who know that well, that this is already a done deal, a work that has been done. Qualification, so you're asking us what we're offering? To change the Criminal Code and to treat this as an international kidnapping, or human trafficking, is already a way to determine, since and how those who were in the organized group and the kidnapping network of these children live. It's absolutely safe and time will tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72966	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Dr. Vladimir Orlic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72967	If we mention banalization, what is the issue in the proposal contained in Article 14? This is now about an amendment required to delete article 14. Right? For those who follow this, who could not understand and hear it from the previous explanation of the amendment, since there was no explanation of the amendment, there was everything else, it is proposed to delete the complete article 14. If we're talking about banalization and an unacceptable relationship to this subject, here's a good example. Article 14 defines how the procedure is initiated, who can initiate it and says that people who suspect that their child disappeared at birth can do so. If they are not in a position, other people who are interested in a particular case can do so. There's absolutely nothing to argue about, and there's no reason for anyone to come and say: we want this to be thrown out of the law, and then there's a parliamentary group who, I think, is their biggest problem today, has no clear view. What do they even think about this subject? They talk to each other most of the time, alone in college, and today explains that on the whole bill of law, what an individual can't, who suspects that he grew up in a family of people who aren't his biological parents, is to initiate the procedure. Now you see just on the case of this article 14 and on the subject of what we've been talking about all day. Yesterday it was agreed, and it was agreed with representatives of those associations that are gathering parents, directly interested in this topic. So, these people have agreed with the Serbian government and under the agreement, the committee in charge has formulated the amendment and adopted it today, which says that an individual who suspects himself to be a victim of child trafficking, after birth, can initiate all the actions that this law provides and can thus initiate procedures that need to help determine the actual state of affairs. Just what some people are trying to explain to us as their fundamental grudge, and they can't agree with themselves what they like, what they don't like, and what they wouldn't mind at all, and that it has something to do with the fact. Exactly what you're looking for is the subject of this member, and exactly the way you said you thought it was correct. We want to adopt this by respecting these amendments that were agreed yesterday at a meeting with representatives of parents who were formulated by the board of directors. So, if it's really true, all that you've been saying today, you can only support the solution that we have for article 14 now with all the promotions. If what you're saying is truly true today, you can support the other promotions that were agreed last night, this morning formulated and becoming an integral part of the law. If it's really true, everything you're saying today, you can only ultimately vote for this whole law. If the point is that someone within their party is choosing for a better place on the list, well, it can be done, but then I think it would be much better and smarter to choose some other topic and some other law for that kind of building their own positions and protecting purely particular personal interests. You know why? Just because of that banalization that was mentioned earlier. You want that banalization or you don't want it, give the answer yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72968	The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72969	You have passed a law to remove people's organs and is well told by fellow Alexander Seselj, who is indeed the greatest threat to that, and this has happened in the past to these organs. You don't give opportunities here, and then you wonder what the SRS is asking to delete this Article 14, and you've come up with a new solution that the closest relatives can't take that request. I must again, Mr. Orlic, to tell you that there are mothers who, up until a few years ago, had no strength, held in themselves that pain and all that they had survived by the loss and disappearance of the child, in fact, because, as such, they were fired from the hospital, and they saw their child alive and healthy. Even one, I really need to get some of these earthquake testimonies, because I personally talked to them, I take out, ask the doctor and the midwife, who brought her the baby to breastfeeding while she was in the hospital, how it's possible that on the fifth day, such a child, who got the highest marks at the maternity ward, suddenly dies and she can't even see that child. We think this law is bad. Why did we ask you to delete this member? What you are now, playing with these people's feelings again, giving them hope that this law will systematically resolve these issues and come to the truth, because they're actually looking for the truth, in the end, what happened to every kidnapped child, those they suspect was kidnapped, right, you say -- you could also or you would support, we adopted in the government. Who did you ask about that? (Vladimir Orlic: You. Did you ask us? If you'd asked us... First of all, Mr. Orlic, you only know about this now. When the SRS was dealing with this issue, you might have been someone's errand boy, because you only clicked later to join the SRS, we showed you your access card, so when you saw what was going on, then the turkey went wrong and went the other way. (President: Thank you. ) So, 2005, 2006 and 2010, we were serious about this issue. You can't lecture us how this was supposed to work out when we suggested 20 years ago how to get rid of it. (President: Thank you. ) Do not deceive people that in a court procedure they will be able to criminally match those who are alive, who did it, and you will see that, and you already have a decision, or a qualified act in the three senior prosecutions in Serbia, Novi Sad, in Prokuplje and in the Great Plan, it is about human trafficking.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72970	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72971	If the bottom line of the last call was to ask me why I'm not in the ranks of those who have something against parenting being able to initiate the procedure, so do I really have to answer you, I think it's right that a parent can initiate the procedure, so I disagree, or the question is why I disagree with those who would want to delete it so that family members can, and it says, and you want to delete it, to initiate the procedure, so I disagree. You know what the problem is? Not if you agree with me or I agree with you, the problem is that you don't agree with yourself. An hour ago here, you, therefore, are not a fifth, telling us – the underlying regret we have is that an individual who, as a baby, is a victim of a newborn child's trafficking to initiate the procedure, and you say – that is unacceptable, why this possibility is not envisaged and why you have all the worst to say about the law. We are now talking to you – people, it has become an integral part of the law, it has been formulated as a proposal. So there's an amendment to this particular article that we're talking about right now, which is exactly what you were talking about an hour ago that you wanted to read. So it is not your problem to disagree with me or any other parliamentary group present here or with Ana Brnabic and the Serbian government. Your basic problem is your disagreement with your own views. You've been telling us for days here, one of your MPs -- this isn't European enough, this isn't in line enough, as he says, with the European Court of Human Rights ruling, this has to be more European, and then you get up, and you say this has nothing to do with Europe, and why we have at all any proposal that has anything to do with the Council of Europe, European courts or anything. Come on, make a deal with each other. Let me ask you to start with that. You say, "It is not good when absolute obsolescence comes to pass, and then there is no more to talk about, and then you say, "Make sure that there is no obsolescence, then the third rises and says, "Make sure that there is an obsolescence." Let's make a deal. So decide for yourselves what your message is. As for Article 14, if you were serious about what you said earlier, and I'm going to tell you again, that your primary goal is that an individual who thinks that as a baby was the victim of this kind of criminal action can initiate the procedure so that the truth can be established. Of course, that's the point of this law and everything we do here, to provide space to determine the truth, whether or not it is, and then you can be satisfied and say -- here's one of our proposals adopted and will become an integral part of that solution that will help, open space to determine the truth and there's no other answer to our question, there's no answer to our question. Okay, guys, what's the alternative to this? This doesn't hurt anybody, it doesn't hurt anyone. No parent is in any way damaged by the fact that we are going to adopt this law. No, people just get it and they get it on a few important grounds and in a few important ways that didn't exist before this law. This is what we provide with this bill, and what is an alternative to what these people will mean, what will help them even more? It just doesn't exist. If there were, you'd bring one little piece of paper here with some proposal for your solution, and what you bring and those words stand to erase a member of this or that, so how much solution do you know that yourself? I think it has something to do with that banalization we mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72972	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Natasa Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72973	I've been informed that you've gathered this voting quorum, even though you don't have these coalition partners, so I won't be long. It is the end of this assembly, and yet again, you are a younger colleague of Marinkovic, but each congregation meeting had its own copy. It used to be Mr. Martinovic, he was Srdjan Milivojevic, and now it's Vladimir Orlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72974	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Do you want to do it by amendment or by...? (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. I beg the Members of the People's Parliament... That's a nice thing to say. It's the end of the term. Let's have a little more respect and talk to each other. The Orlic government didn't deserve that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72975	And I'll do it for a while, I'd just like to take the opportunity to thank you for your kind words. (Natasa Jovanovic: You're welcome. You're welcome, anyway. In principle, we have, just so you know, on every occasion to exchange thoughts, suggestions and solutions in this conference, really enjoyed and we believe that these discussions that we have had, since dialogue is often mentioned, have contributed to people getting some better solutions than those solutions would seem to have led them, and on the other hand to see and understand what is offered in a political sense both on our part and on your part, so that, on the basis of what we say and as messages, they can understand each other better, and therefore both of us and you. So I am sure that the compliments mentioned earlier are a significant contribution to the understanding that Serbian citizens will have for the policy you represent and offer, as well as for the bearers and representatives of that policy. I believe they will respect you only more. On our side, you can always get just the right compliments and congratulations. So I am convinced that this kind of argument will definitely contribute to that all those who have shown that they are able to carry them out on the next parliamentary list of their party will certainly be highly quoted, which should mean that they are above the "Renge Rover" autobiographers 100%.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72976	Thank you. Professor Chevarlich, please. On what grounds? Miladin Ševarlic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72977	I ask the legislator to deliver before the session is completed, paragraph 2. Proposal for a Law – Explanation of the financial means necessary for the application of the law, because in this proposal, the position of the 2nd budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018 was adopted, and ended the bill, and it is impossible...
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72978	Professor Chevarlic, you have reported to the Rules of Procedure to point out that I have injured the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the same Rules of Procedure. Now you're talking about the bill promoter and some of your demands. It really doesn't make sense. We must return this session and ask you to work both in accordance with the agenda and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I want everyone to give, no problem, to talk, but to talk about the subject and point to what I or any of the chairmans have done, but what you're saying has nothing to do with what you've come to answer for. Miladin Shevarlic throws. It's about my injury to the Rules of Procedure. It really doesn't make sense. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mircic also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72979	Article 27. Mr. Marinkovic, you have just controlled the work of the Assembly and are trying to do so in the follow-up. It is inappropriate to lower the level of debate on such a serious subject, as we have just heard, to something that is related to the automotive industry. He's nothing, he can talk professionally. You can even talk about whether anyone here has an aunt in Pakistan who owns a pig farm. You can talk about it. Such an opportunity is used to sort of bring this evil blood into this debate, and it is very important, an important topic, and all for the reasons why the opposition, the SRS, submits amendments, maybe they are good, maybe they are not, may be in line with the corrections of this law that need to be implemented, but that is not the reason for a thousand times here – you have submitted an amendment – the article is deleted. It is since parliamentaryism in Serbia is that when someone wants to make it known that it is not a valid law, that it is not what it should be, then it is said – a member is deleted and it is therefore stressed that the law is quite sloppy, that it will not have an effect, etc. This is what people in public think when they look and listen that it is something terrible when an article is listed in the amendment to delete. It's not, fellow dear, and I'm asking you to concentrate a little bit, we're approaching the break, so you can distract yourself. It's not this, it's not the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72980	I'm trying really hard. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 14. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Minister Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72981	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72982	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72983	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the old story again. We are in principle against this law, so I ask that Article 15 be deleted because we believe that this proposal, that is, when the law is passed, will not solve any of these issues that are set out in the law. The Serbian Radical Party believes that we do not need the International Court of Human Rights ruling and that we can arrange this area, but this intervention by the International Court of State has recognised its impotence. 15 years ago, a survey committee was established in the National Assembly, which was tasked with gathering all the circumstances regarding the disappearance of children from the maternity home and ended. We don't know what data the board came up with, and we don't know what that data is. According to available data, the number of parents who sought their children and addressed the state authorities in connection with the disappearance of children from the maternity home from 1 January 1970 to 9 September 2013, when the International Court's verdict came within the range of 350 to 650. And this range of 350 to 650 speaks of the insecureness and insecureness of this data. The real questions are – how many children died or disappeared after years, how many children died or disappeared in cities, how many children died or disappeared in maternity homes? These questions require an answer so that a reliable and well-founded story can be imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72984	Thank you, Professor Boyich. Honorable Members of the People in accordance with Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are still a lot of problems left in this law, regardless of what you're trying to represent that meeting yesterday, in fact, that yesterday's meeting has solved something and that there are no more problems. The fact remains that you convinced us by yesterday that this law is the best possible solution, even though at that time literally all the associations of parents seeking their children opposed the adoption of such a law. You've changed a lot, and today you're reassuring us that this is the best possible solution. The only conclusion is that whatever paper is sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia you, as parrots, will repeat better than this there is, is best possible, let us pass any law, can always be improved further and so forth. You are now introducing this body that I do not know whether you will be able, or not, to a commission that I do not know whether you will be able to bring under an independent body from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. There are 15 members of six appointed by the government, nine of whom belong to associations. But what got into my eyes was one other thing. You have lawfully prescribed that witnesses of warlocks who refuse to testify, that they will have, that the court will be able to punish them with very high penalties that go even for legal persons and up to three million dinars, however, when it comes to the commission's work, there is no such thing. I see no reason why it is not envisaged that both the state body, the institution, or the individual who refuses to give the data that may be requested by that commission, that similar penalties exist at the disposal of a commission that will deal with the determination of the truth. It's something that's completely logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72986	Thank you. (Nemnja Sarovic: Here, thank you too for not finishing the sentence, if you think it will help. Thank you. ) Thank you, colleague Sarovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72987	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also requested this amendment to delete the members, in particular Article 16, as we have also sought to erase all members of the Bill's proposal, because we believe that this proposal, and later and by law, will not solve the problem of missing babies that have been present for decades. We believe that this bill is shameful, that it is humiliating both for each parent and for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia because this is how it is legalized, that is to say, by the law of child trafficking. It is also a humiliating and proposed legal provision that provides a cash fee of up to 10,000 euros, so we ask you, do you think that money will help parents forget that someone stole their child? Of course, they won't have that 10,000 euros to ease their pain, because for every parent, the child doesn't have a price. What you're doing is embarrassing and scandalous and the problem is you think you can solve everything with money. You definitely can't do this. And it's scandalous how you formed this committee last night. We believe that this law is marketing, that it is for pre-election purposes and that it is a disgrace and a shame and a farce to say that in this way, you started to solve the problem with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72988	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Dr. Orlic answered. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72989	One important note. If the representatives of the parent association think it's good, I doubt that someone on the opposite side of the hall knows better than these people how they should think and feel, and they certainly think it's good, because among other things, the commission has been the subject of these agreements and now becomes an integral part of the law implies the participation of six representatives of the government on the one hand, nine representatives of these parent associations, therefore a significant space for these people to deal with the issues they consider most important. I'm sure it's in the interest of these people and that's why I have no doubt that their support for this proposal and these solutions is justified. Once again, if these people have the support for this one, I think the rest of us can just be happy about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72990	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the line, Rose Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72991	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'll tell you the case specifically in my family. My own sister didn't report the baby missing, or her baby was replaced. Namely, at birth, the child got two dozens as a grade, and the mother saw the child, so that the midwife and the doctor would inform her that the child had Down syndrome, a severe cardiac anomaly, that she had lung problems, and that the child was not for home care. After the papers we got, because we got a completely different child, we found on the papers that the child's blood type didn't match either the mother's blood type or the father's blood type. Professor of Human Genetics at the Defectology Faculty, later when I came to the opportunity I asked myself how it was possible for a child to have a completely different blood type compared to a father and mother, and they were definitely the parents of that child, he told me – colleagues, what you think, I can't tell you. Just because she wasn't able to report that she was still investigating, we looked at those papers a lot later and saw that the baby was replaced. So, don't honor us that we are against this story to finally solve the case of babies and trust me, my sister 10,000 euros won't get this pain back, nor will she get her child back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72992	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word has Dr. Laketic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72993	By amendment or by authority, since I'm wasting my time with authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72994	You can do the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72995	So, as we've heard in previous exhibitions and what the previous MP is talking about, I can't tell you about the details that I don't know anything about, but as in every profession, there's always a possibility of a mistake. That's what I've been talking about as an authorised promoter. So, the essential thing is that in one system that as much as we can say that it was arranged, as was the system in SFRY, I think it's a very small chance that there was an organized crime of this type, that there were organized criminal groups that dealt with it, and that the state didn't recognize it and sanctioned it. On the other hand, there are no doubt that there have been individual cases, no doubt that there have been errors and, unfortunately, there is no doubt that there has been abuse of this noble health call. At the end of the day, at some other stage, when this law is passed, the court will decide and judge on the basis of evidence based on valid information and what is even more important, based on the repair of this legal solution and on the basis of the information provided by the commission, not only on the evidence provided by the court. It is also very important that I also heard here that the ruling majority are now trying to convince the opposition MPs that the law is good. What's that for? First, that's not true. There's no reason to do that. There's no reason to be sure anything's right or wrong. The most important thing is that those who are tangled by the law are parents who suspect that their children have disappeared in maternity homes, that they are satisfied with the legal solution, that they have the hope that this legal solution will actually contribute to the truth. It is a fundamental thing, and we have heard today from opposition MPs that the largest number of these associations and the largest number of parents are satisfied with the legal solution. It's the most important thing, for me personally, and I think for all of us together, because the law is being made because of the problem that exists, and it's pretending to come to an adequate solution. It's the only way. We've been thinking for a long time... Do you think the Justice Department people haven't thought long about how to solve this decades-old problem? As a conclusion, there was a solution that was only possible, which is the law. Why the law? Because in a court of law this way is proven in an out-of-party procedure evidence, information that is relevant, because it is the only way. In this way, I think we're definitely showing seriousness both as a government and as a state solving problems like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72996	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72997	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'd just like to ask you, Mr. Laketti, since you say mistakes happen. So, professionally your opinion, as a doctor -- do you think it's possible for a child to get two dozen at birth, in order to immediately find out that the child has Down syndrome that can determine anyone who isn't a doctor, where it's obvious when the baby looks that the child has a lung problem, that it has to be on the apparatus? So, at the beginning the baby cried, normally everything was, after that, flat-out, the kid had to go to the appliances, I told him about Down's syndrome and he had severe heart abnormalities. Is it possible for that to happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72998	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u72999	In order to judge anything, I need to have the documentation I'm going to look at, anyway, and I'm going to give my expert court. In any case, I think that the way, not just for you, or your sister, but wherever there is a suspicion that a similar problem happened, is precisely this law and these solutions and inspections, therefore, an urgent state reaction, in every sense. We're simply fighting it together. We're in this story together. The legal solution that has been proposed is more than good to simply solve the problems that have been accumulated. In particular, I think it's a mistake not to report it. Therefore, the essential thing is to apply and then to determine the actual state of one regular, legal route afterwards. So, as far as the case is concerned, I expect to take a look at the paperwork, so we'll talk together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73000	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Proposal to add the name of the member and member of the 17a. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that the name of a member and a member of 17a be added after Article 17. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. On Article 18 of the amendment, with correction, submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73001	Paragraph 1 and Article 2 are conditional on two amendments, and the same is the member. If it's just a little over two minutes, you won't mind. In fact, we Serbian radicals are persistent in showing you that there is continuity when it comes to desire and will to stand in the way of something that is conditionally said to take away a child, but that's kidnapping for us. It's a serious crime that never goes out of date. We saw from the documentation presented here and by Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, that in one meeting, in one of the series of conferences was the subject of not only debate but also legal provisions. But unfortunately, it ended with that call. For a long time there was a break after which we realized that even those who should be the most responsible in the sense that they attended the meetings of these committees, they did not respond to those calls by commissions. We have here something that gives us a high dose of the reserve in advance, which is that George Soros's or George Soros's representatives must be involved, as it is in the original, in order to come to the realization that yet this law with these amendments is very good, and here in particular, this article is about strict compliance with the legal provisions relating to the punishment of witnesses and experts in case they deny information. Here he insists on a high sentence, but perhaps it's a little contradictory of what was going on in the advances of proposing this law. There's a consultant here who reached out to someone else's property, unlike those who are subject to processing, who reached out to other people's children, here's your consultant who stole the mandate. It's the hardest crime we've ever done. It can't be for moral reasons if nothing else, to be consulted by someone who has reached out to someone else's property, in this case for a term of office, no matter what I personally think about these persons, how much he appreciates them, but it's the most difficult crime, it's against the law, and you insist on punishing those who deny possible information as a witness and an expert, that they will be punished by fines, and whoever steals the mandates is welcome, his advice and how welcome they are built into amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73002	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Mr. Risticevic, by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73003	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by this and by all previous amendments and by those who have been withdrawn and by various ideas, I think in the following way. I'm sorry these yellow unfortunates aren't here today, but look the truth in the eye. In 2012, we found a completely destroyed, abandoned and abandoned state with no chance for the present, and especially for future generations, everything fell upon us. The course was wild, despite keeping foreign exchange reserves, the rate of the dinar, the dinar fell, the euro rate grew, so by 78 dinars in less than four years it went 50%. We should have stopped it, and we stopped it. It was supposed to stop, and it didn't lose foreign reserves like they lost them and we stopped without losing foreign exchange reserves. The foreign exchange reserves, moreover, have grown, and those gold reserves have grown twice as high. It was supposed to reduce inflation that was two digits and we did it. She's about 1.5% as far as I know. He was supposed to do it with a course, with inflation, so with the price rising to a little bit, he had to take it all. It was meant to hire people, hundreds of thousands who were fired, to attract investments to get people to work, and we did. At the height of our investments, we're record holders in the region. The percentage of the world's population is recorded. When we take into account the participation of our population in the world, when we take into account the volume of investment, Serbia is the champion in that. You should've taken care of it. Most criticism, and they're not here today, we got from the manufacturer of the problem. There's nothing they haven't criticized us for. Why don't we solve the problems faster, which, behold, they just left us. Mostly criticism was from those who made problems, why we don't solve it faster the way they did it quickly, but solve one problem, you need far more time than when the problem is being created. When it's going down, it's going down fast, but when you have to climb up the hill with the burden on our backs, with the debts, with the economy that's gone down, etc. You can hardly climb to where you used to be, let alone make some progress in a very short time. Remember Zoya's law, I think. We've had such criticism and so on, and in this without shame and shame, I'm sorry we haven't solved it in 12 years, but we're going to criticise you why you don't settle it in six months and when there's been a vote, there were four people among these yellow unfortunates. It's Alex's law, etc. So, when we're criticised, now we're usually criticised in the hallway, they're very loud, Tijana's law, etc. All the laws they missed to pass, they criticised us for why we didn't do it faster, more effectively, why the laws weren't more complete. And when you talk to them, you negotiate, when you respect everything they want, when you take that Milisavljevic and you put him to be an authorized representative of some laws, he has three men's voices around him. When they take us to criticise our debts even though it's only 50% public debt now, they're very loud. When we are criticised for children treated abroad, they treat 45, we treat 600 children abroad from the RFZ, plus the government's budget fund, which those cases that RFZ eventually reject, due to regulations and rules, the government's budget fund takes over. All that when you do they're criticizing you. Today about missing babies criticizing everywhere. I do not see that these yellow ones before us, before the change tried anything to solve and today various, Jerkovka, Gordana Comić etc. Trees and stones, and then all you hear are grudges, what's wrong, why don't you solve faster. Mostly they were never the solution to the problem, they were the problem, and therefore our citizens in the election, regardless of what one of my colleagues says, have modified, modified some strange political organisms, almost having a boycott not only the title and the electoral list will be different. Our citizens should watch out for the election, these masked, modified, yellow organisms never come back to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73004	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 19th amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73005	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that we did not need a European directive to resolve the interests of our citizens, which means that no European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which issued a verdict in the case of Zorica Jovanovic against the Republic of Serbia on 26 March 2013, which determined that the above-named right to family life and Article 8 was violated. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. During this debate, we heard that there were over 200 criminal proceedings in progress, that 615 were reported for the abduction of newborns. In 2005, the Serbian Parliament established an Survey Committee that filed 764 criminal reports, unfortunately 300 of which were outdated. I can't help but mention in this context another problem that could have been affected, which is the replacement of babies in maternity homes, whether conscious or unconscious. I personally know the parents who have experienced this problem, and what pains and abuses and humiliations they have experienced to solve this problem. It is open today to say that the price of a newborn child is between ten and fifty thousand euros, depending on whether the child is blonde, male and whether his parents are highly educated. All this tells us about the existence of organized crime and the most difficult form of human trafficking. The Serbian Radical Party believes that it has been unjustly awaited and delayed by this seven-year law and that it has literally been conducted without any debate without the parent's association that considers the bill to be imposed by the European Directive. The parents of missing children believe this law will never come to the truth about its missing children. I wish I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73006	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm setting a break that will take up to 15.05 hours, for an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73007	The Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask the Minister, or the Proposer's representative, to plead on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73008	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73009	Thank you. The Minister accepts this amendment. Does anyone want to discuss it? Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73010	Thank you, Chairman. The adoption of missing babies law in a form that is acceptable to parents is something that no one should fight for a political profit, because this topic must be beyond that and the debate on this law is inappropriately used to calculate a political nature on any other basis. It is inappropriate to put any MP who has contributed to the adoption of any provision of the law acceptable to parents in any context of conspiracy theory and to try to degrade it, degrade and degrade the proposed legislative solutions. It is also inappropriate to attack the role of any NGO that has taken part in this long process of outcomeing some of the improvements that have been achieved these days and for which there is a particular consent of parents, and in particular it is inappropriate to put any association of parents in any context of conspiracy theory. It is the parents who have every political and ethical right to choose the NGOs with whom they will cooperate on the most important subject of life for them. The law may not be passed quickly, but the truth is passed at the last minute, but this is due to the absence of parliamentary dialogue over a long period of time, a historic debt in Serbia. It is something we are certainly trying to change and to raise this parliamentary dialogue. It may not be made for the sake of the election, but the truth for the narrow administrative purpose is being passed and for the upcoming session of the Council of Europe, because the 2013 verdict gave Serbia a deadline of one year for this matter to be legally resolved and we have been breaking through for six years, and we hope that we are all aware, is first of all, because of parents and people who suspect that as newborns, they were the victim of the maternity trade, and that is why it is important that parents agree on the legal solutions reached. The Modern Serbia party hopes that representative parenting associations will be competent to discuss these legal solutions, especially the latest from yesterday's meeting in the Serbian government. At this point, the key thing is next. The law will form a committee in which parents will have a majority and will have a broad mandate defined in seven points of the law that is added to this last amendment and that is what parents in some way wanted, that they have control over investigations and processes, that the search for truth cannot, by the letter of the law and beyond their will, be suspended permanently and that a person who suspects that it was the subject of theft or sale from maternity care, therefore who suspects his biological origin, can initiate the procedure prescribed by this law and any other law that is relevant during the proceedings under this law. I hope that the parenting associations will take advantage of the opportunity created by this commission and that, through their full capacity, they will make proposals to repair this law that is likely to be adopted today and thus help to come to the truth in each case. Many shortcomings, the truth of the will, will remain in this law and, behold, counterpart Nemanja Sarovic was detailed when he listed it. The Round of Proposors to initiate the procedure, although it is extended, does not include all persons who could, by nature, be empowered to initiate the process of establishing the truth under this law. The limitation of the time limit for submitting a proposal for six months, disfellowshipping the public, so why not calling for a public interest which would create preconditions to take advantage of the constitutional possibility for a retroactive fact of removing antiquity from these things, etc., and this famous cash compensation that remains absolutely inappropriate. So I would say that what we get from this law is not all that parents need, but it is something that can give a legal framework to move towards it. It's also the result of some spark of goodwill that was shown yesterday by the executive authority. It's a shame it's gone, it's a shame it's not everywhere in every institution. In Serbian democracy, we hope that these sparks of good will will be more and that they will come to life every time they appear. Because this is in a way, only the first step in the right direction on a thousand-step path, parents will certainly insist on more and the Modern Serbian Party, will always support it as they have so far. At this point, at least it's more than nothing, but it's still not all parents need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73011	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73012	What the SRS insists on is that the law clearly sets out everything about this issue. For example, if you are not familiar with the process of adopting a child, see how the law makes it clear. Why am I saying this as an example? In this law, no single error should occur in the adoption process, whether accidental or intentional, because the law provides for sanctioning any possible error. To do that, it's such a procedure that everything has to be checked. This law should define for us every situation clearly. What we heard earlier, it's an additional argument that this is actually improvisation. When you make improvisation, it's worse than bad law. Then he always moves on to the citizens, to the people or to the parents. The parents are here to control one piece, the parents are here to cooperate, to give information, and here to resort to something that's pure one flossula, avoiding the essence. Here they need state authorities to approach the investigation process, to determine the truth based on what parents are reporting, and simply, parents are offering something that is seemingly, conditionally said power, which is that there are more in the body that they are going to carry out, and to take care of this law. What does that mean, numerically more? They don't have power, they don't have real instruments in their hands. Those who have instruments are representatives of the government, in every assembly, even in this. So now we're almost sure that all of this last night... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73013	Thank you. Here, the deputy secretary general tells me you only have this much time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73014	No, if it's time, time is something we can't influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73015	Not at all. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73016	We, like the other amendments, just wanted to draw attention, first of all to the behavior of you out of power. You've completely given birth to the people. Your behavior is also ossion, blasphemous and you act by the system "we can be," and you believe that's not good. You think anything can be bought. So you said, instead of seeking an emergency session of the UN Security Council, to solve the problem of the Serbs in Montenegro, we will pay back taxes from the Serbian Orthodox Church. There are some things you should know, in fact, that the most valuable things in life can't be bought with money. You say that ten thousand euros, or the amount of up to 10,000 euros, should be a fair fee on the day of adoption on the official course, a fair cash compensation actually for compensation, for mental pain, for people who have lost children and who have been kidnapped by children. That's not possible, it's offensive, especially since all these parents know that their children have been sold for more than 10,000 euros. He took more of that someone who organized the kidnapping or who kidnapped the child than you give to your parents. It's terrible that you give them anything at all. Here, people come in, they listen to what we're saying, people who have long-term knowledge of their children's abductions, associations come in, they say that the Association of Truth and Justice of the Kidnap are absolutely against this law, so it's not true that all the associations are for this bill, but I repeat, you're acting the way you want them to, so we'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73017	The National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is a great progress, not only in this area, but in general. Since it has never occurred to anyone that they are seriously involved in this subject, regardless of whether the law has a falinky, laws are passed for people, amendments and additions to laws are also passed for people. It is the citizens who will assess the effects of this law, and the government and the representatives of the people, the MPs, must always behave as the citizens will. Citizens should urge the government and the MPs to do what is best for them. This law is, in my opinion, quite enough to start, if of course there are any needs of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will always be there to correct any shortcomings and to emulate some possible new circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73019	Thank you. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that the names of members and members of 25a be added after Article 25a. The government has accepted the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73020	Thank you, Chairman. I will use the time I have as an authorised representative of the modern Serbian Party Parliament Club. Today, almost all day we were actually discussing what is a key amendment, which after yesterday's talks in the government of the Republic of Serbia, was actually agreed to be implemented in the draft law that we discussed these days. This law, namely these amendments, is unfortunately passed in photofinish, practically before the law was passed, and I am sorry that the talks between the representative association or the representative associations of parents of missing babies had not happened before, but had to happen like this. So, better late than never. I am pleased that yesterday, during a conversation that was held, a consensus was reached on these amendments which were adopted today on the Committee on Justice and addressed to you, to the MPs and to me, of course, to discuss them. Also, once again, I am stressing, just once during this completely inappropriate debate, I have come forward for a word, I appeal to the MPs not to abuse neither in the public, nor here in the assembly room for this debate on political dealings with non-experienceds. It's legitimate, but it's not moral and it's not good. In this way, by abuse of this debate, you warm up the already enormous doubts of parents that they already naturally have because of the problem they have been facing for decades. So, I hope that with my debate, regardless of whether anyone will come forward, no one will abuse the debate and show that there is goodwill, political will above all in parliament, and that there is a broad consensus among the MPs that these amendments are accepted. Why am I stressing this in this way? Because I didn't hear any arguments from colleagues who almost kept political speeches today against what was agreed yesterday at a meeting between parents, relevant NGOs. When I say the relevant ones, I must remind you that these are our most respected lawyers who deal with the issue of human rights, that neither was Mrs. Kandic present at that meeting, even though it has continued to respect itself all day, that I do not know why the Prime Minister called me, does not stand my signature on these amendments either. Indeed, gentlemen, dear fellow Members, consider today's amendment product to be our joint work and I have no intention of what happened yesterday and what produced the dialogue that was conducted between the representatives of the government, the Parents' Association, relevant NGOs, and in this extreme necessity, and me as a national MPs, to be our common contribution to the quality of the law, which I hope will ultimately be adopted. With that in mind, if there hadn't been any reaction from the parents at yesterday's meeting, my decision to withdraw all the amendments that were "expunge" regarding this law, of course, would not have been withdrawn. I would just keep on protecting what my parents asked me to do. We here, mostly, are representatives of the citizens and we need to act accordingly. This amendment specifically regulates one huge question. So this law has been in many provisions, completely unspeakable. The amendment, which says a commission will be formed to allow for an absolute majority of the parent associations in the commission, so as many as nine members of the 15 members of this commission will spell out representatives of parents. Whatever the executive power tries to do, any executive authority, parents have an absolute majority to react and make a decision according to their thoughts. I am taking this opportunity today because indeed, all those who were interested in this topic have made a great deal of effort to thank the parents who are looking for their missing children, either to all MPs or at least to the representatives of their parliamentary groups, on behalf of the parents with whom I have communicated, and I will take advantage of this right to thank each of those MPs who, on behalf of their MPs, accepted a meeting with their parents or showed good will to meet with them, and that this happened in the meantime, so that there was no opportunity. So, I most warmly thank Professor Mijatovic and Mrs Svetlana Zivkovic, who received the Parents' Association "Belgrade group of parents of missing babies". They were talking about the day the debate on this subject started. I would also like to thank the representatives of the United Pensions Party Parliament Club. Mr Moma Colakovic and two other MPs from his parliamentary group also received parents that day. For objective and justifiable reasons, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic expressed his desire to meet them, but there was no opportunity to meet them on that day, so unfortunately it was missing. Also, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic took the time to do so yesterday, but due to these circumstances, there was no need for us to meet because it was too much for us to go to a meeting in the government. Don't mind me, please, colleagues, if I have left someone out of it unfairly. I just want to send a message from here that this law, which I hope will be adopted today, will be the product of our joint work, our joint will to help parents who are looking for missing children. What I'm going to ask you once again, given that the work of this Commission that is forming will include so many parents and that they have the right of all associations of parents to actively engage in the work of this Commission, I'm going to appeal to you not to heat up the gap between the associations that exist, to help them to come to the truth about what happened to their children together, that they can act together and protect the only ones who are interested, and that is to conduct a quality investigation that will lead them to the truth about their missing children. Also, I cannot ignore the great contribution of MPs who have decided not to participate in parliament's work. First of all, I think of Maja Vidinović who had previously participated in the Committee's work. Then I think of Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov, also, who has given great importance to raising the visibility of this topic. After all, I also have to thank people who are not directly involved in the work of parliament, but have had at certain times perhaps a crucial importance for the associations of parents. First of all, I think of Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic, who in 2010 sent a detailed report on what it is necessary for the Assembly and the competent ministries to do so that these parents can come to the truth that they are interested in. So, I'm just going to repeat now the words of my dear colleague Vladimir Djuric, who said – we are absolutely aware that this law is only the first step in a series of probably thousands of steps that are just waiting for these parents to take and we have to do everything in our power to help them on that path and we are not getting away with it, and we are not using this topic in the next period. Also, an important thing from yesterday's meeting has been shown the political will to amend and supplement this law, if necessary and to come, this law will naturally control matters by the MPs because it is our jurisdiction. On the other hand, they will be controlled by these parents who will be involved in the work of the Commission. On the third hand, we can't ignore it, it will be controlled by an international institution, which is the Council of Europe, which was very interested in this issue. And, finally, I'm going to conclude this, since this is not a question that only causes the Republic of Serbia, this is a question that probably affects all countries of the former Yugoslavia, it seems to me that this law, which I hope will soon come into force, will be the first law to address the question of missing children from the former territory of the SFRY. So, this law, if we make our efforts and the future work of parliament makes its efforts even better, can serve as a model for parents who seek their children and today do not live in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73021	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73022	Thank you. As I announced, if the law is good for families or most families, then it's good for me. If he's not good for them, he won't be good for me either. I am pleased to find an additional effort made by both the authorities and by some and associations of parents, i.e. family and some colleagues, and therefore, respecting these reserves and warnings given by the representatives of the opposition on the one hand and on the other, I will vote for this legal solution with the hope that, as it is said, it will only be the first step and that it will bring such a satisfaction and hope that someday, when it is, the truth will be established. Like I said, at least at death, at some difficult hour, someone will repent. Someone will feel the need to say, share the terrible truth about what happened on a case. It's a good thing this extra effort that's been made, so, these amendments, that law is improving, and that's why, as I said, I'm voting for its adoption. What I still have to say, and there are my colleagues on the left, a few days ago we heard that the law is good and that the best, perfect, and then suddenly we see that it's even better, even more perfect, even more excellent than it was, and it's been great since the beginning. It's kind of like that immortal aphorism of Brana Crnchevic back in the '60s, when he said that before the war, alluding to that propaganda officially then, that communist, we had nothing, and then the Germans came, so they destroyed everything. This reminds me of that situation a little bit, just the other way around. So first the law was great, and now it's even more excellent, even better, after these amendments. Anyway, I don't care if it's going to make any use of political... I don't know, the ruling coalition or fellow Macura or some third party, it's important that we get at least one step closer and at least theoretically get closer to the truth and justice for this terrible and painful case or cases that, as I said, I didn't believe there were. I was inclined to think it was just some administrative and records mistake. Unfortunately, it's not. It really is about a smuggling ring involving some doctors, some midwives, some experts, and some people who may have been from the welfare center for decades. With or without this law, I appeal to the competent authorities to determine where it is possible or to try to determine the facts at least of any of these cases, and that will be a big deal. I'm saying, of course I think there's pressure on the outside. I think this European Court of Human Rights verdict and what should be this session in March right now, all of these are probably the reasons, maybe something else. Whatever it is, it's better that some things are ever done than never, but let's not immediately pronounce the law as perfect, but rather work to make it better, perfect, together with families of missing babies, along with the public who has accumulated in this matter. I think it's one of the biggest things and the fluids we've achieved already, that people started to think about, which often or pushed under the carpet, covered up or, simply, psychological people weren't easy to tell themselves and admit that it was happening. Now we are all aware, and we in the Assembly and the media and the citizens who are watching us are aware that it was. How many, I suppose, are going to show some investigations, but it certainly was those cases. These are valuable examples that we have heard from the victim's family and certain fellow MPs here in the Assembly during the debate where their families were, unfortunately, part or victim of that store or that kidnapping, that crime of child abduction. So, if nothing else, the public has become more sensitive to the subject. I wish we'd passed some other laws like this. It would certainly be better for us both as MPs and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73023	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after Chapter IV, was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Minister Djordjevic to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73024	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73025	Thank you. The minister has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Rade, submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73026	We had just heard from a couple from Lidija and Dragan Brđovic from Vrnjačka Banja, who had informed all the authorities more than 20 years ago and provided evidence that their child had been stolen in a hospital in Nis, the name and last name of the person who stole their child. It was a pediatrician doctor and a professor at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, but nothing happened. Unfortunately, we no longer have time to discuss this more, but we have submitted this amendment and suggested that this member be deleted, as well as all the members before that, because we want to tell the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this law is withdrawn from the procedure, if not, then to the MPs not to vote for this law, if not, then to Alexander Vukic that this law does not sign. This is a law on the legalization of baby theft, and it's something that's simply not appropriate, as it's not appropriate for a colleague to just say that we've been having some inappropriate argument here all day, and that's what someone who stole the mandate and someone who claims that Srebrenica was genocide. Now, that's inappropriate, but unlike her, we're going to Serbia and we're explaining that there's no genocide in Srebrenica. Today, Vojislav Seselj will do so in Šapac at 6pm at the Hotel "Freedom" and the Capcans will hear that there were no genocides in the promotion of his trotomic work "In Srebrenica", on the promotion of all details. This law is bad. This law is nowhere near what you try to present, this law throws dust in your eyes. We repeat, the association of one of the biggest "For Truth and Justice" is against this law, against amendments and against the formation of a new commission because the commission already exists, because this commission should continue to work, but it is obvious that now some more similar commissions are being created, that Milan Antonijevic and your Tanja Macura will solve the problems of missing babies. We're afraid it'll be nothing, because neither of us, first of all, cares about babies from Serbian maternity homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73027	Would you like a replica? By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73028	I'd just like to take the opportunity, since obviously it wasn't clear enough, maybe we should just hear more about the promotion of a book, but I'd still like to talk to our parents and focus on this law. So the difference between the commission that needs to be formed by adopting this law and the commission that exists now is precisely in the number of parents involved in its work. Only one parent participates in the current work of the current commission, whose mandate stands out in a few days, and he is a minority. The commission that is yet to be formed, and the issue of this law that we need to adopt, will be attended by nine parents, who will have very large powers and competencies, almost in line with some independent institutions that exist in our country. The only thing they won't have is the competences and capabilities and powers that the Commissioner has to protect information from public importance. We were just discussing it yesterday at a meeting in the government of the Republic of Serbia and it was being discussed seriously whether anyone could approach that information. And this question has been resolved by this very amendment, so parents and that obstacle that exists today will be able to solve right through the Trustee, as independent institutions, by emergency procedure within five days. So to compare the commission that is yet to be formed and that will work in the interests of parents, in accordance with the law that is yet to be passed, with the commission that exists today, does not submit reports and the question is what it does, where the parents are in the minority, is completely inappropriate. So the absolute agreement is that parents must be involved in the investigation process. The only way that could have been done is by just one fundamental change, as colleagues from this Parliament group who have been complaining about the quality of this law all day, have just used it as an expression, that these are fundamental changes. These are fundamental changes, a commission will be formed in which most of them will be parents, who will be able to re-vote anyone who possibly predicate to compromise someone's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73029	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. You don't have any more time. Well, she wasn't talking about you. She skipped it. At the name of the member and of the 26th Amendment, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73030	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are slowly approaching the end of an important debate and I really agree with all the assessments today that are going in the direction that we are talking about the good work that we have done together not only preparing this bill, not just working on it these days in the Assembly, but also the willingness that we have shown to make certain compromises and that indeed, yes, that is true, we show that we are a partner with everyone in this society, not only with the Serbian Government, we as the MPs, not just one of us as the MPs, but with our people in the broadest possible sense. You see, that shows not only the question of this law, the one we discussed today, but the other laws we talked about during this week, that is, at this session. Indeed, everyone can remember not one, but several cases, or not one, but several occasions when it turns out that people who are essentially interested in those topics that are treated by certain laws have come out publicly with a view – yes, we agree with the proposed solutions, yes, we agree with such a formulated law, yes, we believe that the formulated solutions are in our favor and we support it. And when it comes to people who, above all, care first, I think it's an unequivocal clear confirmation that we have done a good job together. Once again, let's remind ourselves, we've come to a common solution, we've reached a point of mutual understanding with representatives of an association that gathers parents who suspect their children have disappeared since birth. I think it's an important conclusion that we all need to be aware of, and we should stick to that conclusion when we evaluate what we've done. Of course, it's the best possible answer, but really the best possible answer, much better than anything we could ever formulate on our part, for those of you who have done everything that is contrary to the protection of the good interests of all the people who are directly concerned, who, for hours it has been, I must conclude with grief that all those who have noticed it are right, used this topic in an inappropriate way to be politically accounted for, first of all, with us from the parliamentary majority, to transfer, as they have said, we want to legalise some crime or some crime, that we want to show that we want to trample everything alive on the European path, not to care about the fates of people, that we want to insult the human mind, human intelligence, and not to protect the interests of those who are potentially damaged. You see, the results and solutions contained in this text of the law, which we are about to declare, all speak the opposite. We were resented that they were not in a position for people who were directly concerned with initiating investigations in order to determine the truth, and that is exactly what this bill allows. So they can and will be able to, as soon as we adopt these parents who have certain doubts, certain chills, certain concerns that have long been bothering them, to initiate appropriate actions precisely thanks to this law. Other members of the family, now that we've established it, may be individuals who suspect themselves of being themselves in the role of babies who were estranged after birth. The representatives of the Association of Parents have requested direct participation in the process of determining the actual situation and this is certainly possible by forming a joint committee of representatives of the Government and representatives of the very same parent associations. I think that here is a clear question of the open, correct partnership that the representatives of the Serbian Government and representatives of the National Assembly, or the MPs, the committee, or the tide, will see in a moment, the willingness to be partners with all those interested in the matter regulated by this law. And it's good to hear that many who had certain reserves under this law will vote for it, that in the meantime they changed their minds, or have corrected their judgment about what we did together here. That's good. And it's a good thing we called a few moments ago for a broad consensus. That kind of call, and we join in on our side. So it's a quality solution, because if we want to be honest to the end, let's just look at what the situation in this area looked like, in this matter seven days ago, 15 days ago, a month ago, any time when we didn't have a law like this. Was there anything better without this law than it would be when we had it? Well, it's nothing. Literally one aspect does not exist that it is better without this law, but with it, on the other hand, more important things are just made possible by this law. Is it defined which courts should deal with the relevant questions? Yes, it is. Is the urgency established, therefore, that no one can say any more – I have an excuse why I will not process it within the time when parents or anyone has initiated the process of hoping that it will be processed? No, that's the kind of excuse we've eliminated. Can those who have been called to testify or those who have been invited to witch themselves be able to easily allow comfort of refusal to participate in determining the actual state of affairs? Now with this law, he won't be able to do it anymore. You noticed and you spoke, and that's true, the dragon's sentences are foreseen by this bill. Isn't that just better? Isn't that just about protecting the interests of those people who wonder what really happened to their children? Of course it is. The issue of compensation that had been terribly manipulated, but had been vehemently manipulated, and on this issue many have tried to make a terrible, difficult insult to the parliamentary majority that has said since the very beginning that it supports the law. Guys, what can the court do tomorrow? They can carry out the procedure until the end and say, yes, we've established the fact that the following is, you're wrong, your baby isn't missing or saying – the condition has been determined, you're right, your baby is gone. That third could happen. It's real, it's possible that the court is saying -- we can't determine the actual situation, we just don't have a way to figure it out, something happened, if you want seventy-something years, we don't have living witnesses, we don't have the documentation that we can look into, we don't even know where to start, so we're not able to give you the exact answer to the question of what really happened. In that case, this law provides for the possibility that the person who initiated the procedure should receive adequate compensation. For what? For the fact that the court can't determine the situation until the end. That's what we talk about when we talk about that 10 or how much, it doesn't have to be 10,000 euros. Is that a bad thing? It's not. Is that endangering, is it correcting in a bad way, in a more negative way the position of one who has an interest in determining the situation to the end? No, I don't. Among other things, we have predicted that this does not mean that the procedure is forever completed if it comes to such a kind of assessment by the court. If the court declares that it cannot determine the situation at this time, it also provides for one of the agreed, adopted amendments, it does not mean that if things change tomorrow, then new evidence appears, and witnesses appear, so that anything relevant to this issue is changed, the whole process cannot be re-implemented. These are good things, and it can only be supported by anyone who wants to be treated properly and to provide adequate protection to these people, that is, the satisfaction of their desire to know the truth. In that sense, I agreed with everything you said earlier, Mrs. Macura, but I have a note for you. Since you thanked some, who aren't in these benches here, because, as you said, they helped to hear more clearly on this matter, or to raise visibility that way, I have to tell you that it was their raising visibility, if you noticed it, and I believe that it was, being guided exclusively by the back of us here, because these people were saying disgusting insults that we were selling children for 10,000 euros, remember that? So, in that segment, I can't agree. I don't believe we owe these people any gratitude because that's how they talked. If they had stuck to what you called for, not to be politicised, if they had stuck to what you called for, not to be abused, if they had stuck to what you called for, not to be banalised, everything would have been fine, but they did all the opposite. People who were able to deal with this question, people who were able to pass this law, like this, something different, whatever, but never did anything that would lead to any improvement. What we're doing today never occurred to them. Yes, they reminded others, at a time when they were in your power, what answers were given to questions – whether to determine what was wrong with children or not. The only answer they had was absolute obsolescence, absolute obsolescence, we can't and we won't do anything, absolute obsolescence. So it was their only answer and the level of their interest, and what you say is that they've been raising visibility these days, self-indicting us parliamentary majority that we're trading, protecting crime, so you know how honest they are when you know what they've been doing and how they've done it, and they've done it like I told you, but it can't be the most important thing today. The most important thing must be that we have taken a good, important step that everyone in this society should welcome and, once again, agree with the important representatives of the Association of Parents, or those of the citizens directly concerned. It's not the only law we're discussing in this session that can be said for him. Among other things, there was also an assessment here, when we talked about the Law establishing the origin of property and the special tax, that this law, as well as this one, was long awaited. Yes, and not as long as a few months or from putting the law into the congregation procedure, to putting it on the agenda. For years, it has been waiting, both for the fate of children and for the Law on the designation of origin of property. You're the same person I was talking about before, and you know it well how much they were announcing, talking about it, threatening it, if you want to, to others, so nothing ever happened, nothing ever happened. Now you see how things change in Serbia. Now the law is also being discussed, and he is now in the process, just as the issue of children suspected to have disappeared is being discussed. So it's a big, important, fundamental difference with Serbia as it once looked, and when there was a lack of courage, when there was a lack of political loop, if you want, that a number of people, who were called on to it, were concerned when things were just being talked about and nothing was going on. What's the problem with knowing? This is being put on the agenda today. This is today being declared and this takes effect in Serbia following the policies of Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Make it a difference in courage, responsibility, whatever you want, but that difference is clear and there is. When we talked about that third important law, third and fourth, if you will, at this very session, we had, therefore, a clear common, partnership relationship with the people who are concerned, with the people who are again, the rule has been waiting for such laws to be passed for years, and that happens today, as with the representatives of the fighters who have long waited to get such a compact, comprehensive bill dealing with the issue of their rights, and these are the many who belong to the opposition in this room told and confessed because it is true, and so are representatives of the National Organization of Persons with Disabilities. She said that what we did, as a solution to the gambling law, was indeed in their interest and welcomed it publicly. They did it from this building a few days ago. As for the law on the rights of fighters, and they welcomed that, those solutions were welcomed by representatives of relevant associations that gather fighters, veterans and military peoples. I'll just read you a few names of the association so you know who it's about. They welcomed the law and said their solutions were adopted under the law, their suggestions and requests from the Association of War Military Disabilities of Serbia of all wars, also from the Association of War and Peace-doping Military Disabilities, from the Association of Severe War Disabilities and families of fallen fighters of all wars of Serbia. That's what people have said openly and beautifully stated what they've been looking for for years, and now there's been a real answer, the answer they've been waiting for, the kind of government they've hoped for, the government, the parliament, that what they really wanted to become an integral part of the law. What is the problem, what is the sin of saying – that this happened today, not in the days of those who are falsely concerned today, and were in a position to do something, so they never did anything? It's happening today and it needs to be said openly, to be honest, and it's not a problem to know. After all, it's plain and honest that these people we've been talking about all along, these people who are directly concerned about this issue. Not to read to you and not to convince you all now, but this last association I mentioned. When they held a press conference in the Assembly Hall, they said literally with positive reviews of the proposed laws – these bills show respect and care for fighters and military people, as well as for members of their families. Respect and care and say – we have waited a long time for this. They thanked the ministry for the proposal, but especially Alexander Vukic, those are their words, because without his support, there would be no such solutions. These are the grades you hear from the people whom these laws, all these laws that we are talking about today, these days we talk about, these months or these years in Serbia, we talk about how these people talk about why and how we came to this kind of solution that really is what people in this country want. If that's what the people in this country say, I'm sure there's absolutely no one serious about it, just there's nothing to add. Together and globally, let it be a final assessment of everything we've done, it's coming from the people right now. So, not from any European or any other court, not from this or that organization, the council, one or the fifth. So, in this country what and how the people are judged, what and how we will continue that decision will also be made by the people. All these people who have given support to that job that we have done together these days as a National Assembly, all these people who support politics, successful politics, the victory policy that is being led in Serbia today, these same people in late April, we expect, will give their own judgment on what we will do next. I'm sure it can only be a support for further efforts, a further good job of making this country the kind of environment that his children will want to live in, which is proud of their successes and which, unlike some years behind us finally wins, because it's aware that he can, has a way to do it and he knows that he deserves it a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-29-0.u73031	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law on principles and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Saturday, February 29th, 2020, starting at 4:00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the twenty-sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. We start voting in a few minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum, and I ask you to sit down and insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall and we move on to a decision. We have conditions to vote on. I put to the vote the draft law establishing the origin of the property and the special tax, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to put the amendments of the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party on Article 1. Finalising vote: for – one. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to article 1 with a correction. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the Verice Radete amendment to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Alexander Seselj to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 of the Ignorance of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on amendments to the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party on Article 5. Finalising vote: for – one. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete amendment to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 7. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 9 with the correction. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendment's vote, Nemanje Sarovic, on Article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 12 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Milorad Mircic to Article 13. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete amendment to Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendments to the vote on Article 15. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 18. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to article 19. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 20. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to the Modern Serbia Party on Article 20. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verica Radet amendment to Article 21. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party on Article 21. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 23. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 25 to vote I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 26. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 27, Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 28. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments by Aleksandra Belačić to Article 29. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 29. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law on the designation of origin of property and special tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, abstention – one, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill establishing the origin of property and a special tax. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on litigation, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 abstentions – one, five MPs did not vote. I find the bill accepted, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of Alexander Seselj to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the Verice Radete amendment to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Prosecution, in general. I conclude the vote: for— 133, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law supplementing the Law on Prosecution. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Liabilities, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verica Radet amendment to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to Article 3 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Liabilities, in general. I conclude the vote: for— 133, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bond Relations. I put to the vote a bill on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled wars and members of their families, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put Dr. Miladin Sevarlic's amendment to article 5 to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put Dr Alexander Martinovic's amendments to Article 5 to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendment of Miodrag Linta to Article 5. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I am voting on the amendments of Bozidar Delic to Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put Dr. Miladin Ševarlic's amendment to article 7. I conclude the vote: for seven MPs. I put the amendments to the vote, which is added after Article 7 by the new Article 7a, which was submitted by Professor Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 22. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Miodrag Linta to Article 22. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to the title above article 24, which Sreto Peric submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 24 to vote I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, which adds a new Article 24a, which was submitted by Professor Miladin Ševarlic, after Article 24. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to the vote, which is added after Article 31, by a new member of 31a, who was submitted by Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 32 to vote. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I am putting on the vote by Professor Miladin Sevarlic's amendment to article 33. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I am putting on the vote by Professor Miladin Ševarlic's amendment to article 58. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I am voting on Rose Nikolic's amendment to article 64. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Professor Miladin Sevarlic, article 86. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 86. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendments to article 86 on the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 86. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Dr. Miladin Sevarlic's amendment to article 87 to vote. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 90 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 93. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments, Aleksandra Belacic, to Article 99. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put amendments to the title above Article 104 tabled by Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 104. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to Article 105. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 106. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Nomanje Sarovic on Article 106. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 112 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 113, which were jointly submitted by Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, adding the title and new member of 116a submitted by Miladin Ševarlic after Article 116. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am voting on the amendments of Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović to Article 118. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to article 125. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Miodrag Linta to article 127. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I put Miladin Sevarlic's amendment to article 137. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to Article 137 to vote. Bozidar Delic and Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Ljiljana Mihajlovic's amendments to article 142. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 147 to vote. Miladin Ševarlic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I'm putting amendment 151 to vote. My dear Linte. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on the rights of fighters, military people with disabilities, civil disabled wars and members of their families, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – two, abstention – two, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War, and members of their families. I put the draft law on gambling in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – one, abstention – one, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of the Citizens' Protector to the title of Articles 5 and 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic to the title of Articles 5 and 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Serbian Party on behalf of Articles 5 and 5. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 9. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am voting on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 16. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete amendment to Article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Citizens' Protector, which, after Article 16, is proposed to add Articles 16a and 16b. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of the modern-Serbian parliamentary group, which is proposed to add Articles 16a and 16b after Article 16. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 19 of the Nemanje Sarovic vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 24. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 24. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am putting Milorad Mircic's amendment to article 27 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 27 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 30. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of the Citizens' Protector to Article 32. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Serbian Party on Article 32. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 32 to vote. Olena Papuga and Hope Lazic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 36. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 36. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Miletic to Article 36. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendment to article 43 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on Millic Miletic's amendment to article 47. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 47 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Ruzica Nikolic to Article 51. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 59. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to article 64. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on amendments to Nomanje Sarovic on article 67. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 72. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to article 80. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by the amendment of Peter Jojic to Article 87. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 87. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 95. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by the amendment of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 97. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by the amendments of Nikola Savic to Article 103. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 103. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. Put to the vote of the Verica Radete Amendments to Article 121. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 128. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 131. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 131. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted in favour. Put to the vote by Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 133. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. Put to the vote by Milija Miletic's amendment to Article 136. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. Put to the vote by the amendment of Nikola Savic to Article 136. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by the amendment of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to Article 138. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote by Milorad Mircic's amendment to Article 138. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Put to the vote of the Verica Radete Amendments on Article 140. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we've finished voting on the amendments, I'm putting the draft law on gambling in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – one, with abstention – one, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on gambling. I am putting to the vote a bill laying down facts on the status of newborn children, suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted four MPs. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic at the title of the bill. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Gorica Gajic and Vjerica Radete on Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments by Aleksandra Belačić to Article 1. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Gorica Gajic and Aleksandra Seselj on Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Gorica Gajic and Nemanje Sarovic on Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Gorica Gajic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović on Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 4. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Ljiljana Mihajlovic's amendments to Article 5 to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the Mojčil Mandić amendment to article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Dubravko Bojic to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić on Article 7. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 7. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the Marine Ristic vote on Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Tomislav Ljubenović's amendments to article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Nikola Savic's article 10 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Bozidar Delic to Article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendment's vote, Nemanje Sarovic, on Article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Miljan Damjanovic to Article 12. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments, Aleksandra Belačić, to Article 13. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 13. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic on Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the Dubravko Bojic vote on Article 15. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments I do not have Sarovic on Article 15 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 16. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 17. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Ljiljana Mihajlovic's amendment to article 18 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to article 18 and by correction. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 19. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 20. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the Marine Ristic vote on Article 21. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 22. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendment to article 23 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 23. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the Verica Radete amendment to article 23 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 24 to vote I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Milan Damjanovic's amendment to article 25 to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 25. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete amendment to Article 26. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the Law on the determination of the status of newborn children, suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 135, against – the two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill establishing facts about the status of newborn children, suspected of missing from a maternity home in the Republic of Serbia. We move to agendas from 7th to 35th, agreements. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol under the Convention of the Agreement on International Transport of Goods by Road, in general. Finalising vote: for -134, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the confirmation of a loan agreement for climate change resistance and irrigation in Serbia – phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Finalising vote: for -132, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention by means of an international achievement of the support of children and other family members, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming an agreement on co-operation in the area of defence between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol to determine a three-way border point between the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in general. Finalising vote: for -132, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Framework Military Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in industry and technology, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the field of environmental protection, in general. Finalising vote: for -134, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. Although we have a majority, let's do it again. They're asking MPs to vote, too. Let's do it again. I conclude the vote: for – 134, MPs, so I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the exercise of the paid activity of certain members of the family of members of diplomatic and consular representations in general. Finalising vote: for -132, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the conduct of paid jobs of family members in their diplomatic missions and consular representations, in general. Finalising vote: for -134, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the employment of maintenance persons of members of diplomatic and consular representations, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of objects of precious metals, with Annexes I and II, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the other Foreign Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the South-Eastern Europe region on agreements with the host country on the Ministry of the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the South-Eastern Europe region, in general. Finalising vote: for -132, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 – no one, abstention – one. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on co-operation in the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters, in general. Finalising vote: for -134, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Nicaragua on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote: for - unanimously, 135, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of water, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the veterinary field, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the bill has been passed. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on the conduct of paid jobs of the supported persons of diplomatic, consular, military, administrative and technical staff of diplomatic and consular offices, in general. Finalising vote: for -134, MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the area of sustainable management of cross-border waters and plums of common interest, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the bill has been passed. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on co-operation in the construction, management, maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation of natural gas pipelines crossing the state border, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption under the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative with the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption under the Southeast European Anti-Corruption Initiative, in general. Finalising vote: for – 134. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, in general. Finalising vote: for – 134. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Grenada on economic co-operation, in general. Finalising vote: for – 134. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the bill on certification between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and certification services for electronic transactions provided in Montenegro, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on trade and economic co-operation, in general. Finalising vote: for – 134. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica, in general. Finalising vote: for – 134. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting the motion to vote on the Act of Confirmation of Annex No. 3 Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreements in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in general. Finalising vote: for – 135. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Now for a short while, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on February 28th, 2020 at 11pm and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – three. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 29 February 2020, at 13 hours and 4 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. That concludes an extraordinary session. I'll see you Monday.
