ParlaMint-RS_2020-02-24-0.u72088	Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we continue our work, I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased MP Veri Paunovic for a moment of silence. A minute of silence. ) We are continuing the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 147 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Mirjana Dragas. We move to a decision on proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 7 of the agenda. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Old Fairment Memorial Centre, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 153, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to the amendment with the amendment, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic, under the name of the bill. Finalising vote: for – one. I am putting the amendments to Article 1, with an amendment, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I am concluding the vote: for - 16 MPs. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for – 15 MPs. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I am concluding the vote: for - 16 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 13 MPs. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15 MPs. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – 14 MPs. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - nine MPs. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 10, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 19 MPs. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on article 11, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for – 21 MP. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 12, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 13, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on article 14, which was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I am putting the amendments to Article 16 of the amendment, with the correction submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am putting the amendments to article 17 of the amendment, with the correction submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 18 of the amendment, with the correction submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 18, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: for – 15 MPs. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I am concluding the vote: for - 10 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 19 of the amendment, with the correction submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on the Old Fairment Memorial Centre, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 159 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Memorial Center "The Old Fair". I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the catalogue of immovableity and water, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 141 MP. I find the proposal accepted, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 19 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I am concluding the vote: for – 18 MPs. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - six MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I am concluding the vote: for - 16 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: for – 17 MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of fixed-moving and water, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 18 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the registration procedure in the Immobilities and Waters Catalogue. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project for Accelerating Innovation and Encouragement of Entrepreneurship Growth in the Republic of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, abstention – one, 20 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Loan for the Contracting of a Foreign Building Project) for the Project of Construction of the Obrenovac thermal line – Novi Belgrade, between the Chinese Export – Import Bank, as a lender and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 160, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of qualified services from trust provided in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 20 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the Eurasian Economic Union and its Member States, on the other hand, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 162 versus – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the Proposal for a law confirming Additional Protocol 6 on the trade in services of the Agreement on the modification and accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on February 18th, at 1340, pointed to a violation of article 107. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: for - five MPs, and there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic, at a session on February 19th, at 16.29 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said article is injured. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 20th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
